ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-26-0.u27904	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, on behalf of the Clubs of HSS, SDP, HNS and HSP, we would like to request a half-hour break and ask you to call a session in this apartment with the presidents of clubs or the extended presidency of the Croatian Parliament in order to make an appropriate attempt to resolve the tonight's situation of vote of confidence in Miomir Zuzul. I note that we place these demands on an extremely well-intentioned basis, first of all, to protect the integrity of this House. Please respect our request. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-26-0.u27905	Thank you very much. HDZ representative club President Klub Luka Bebic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-26-0.u27906	Mr. President, there are always suggestions here to obstruct the work of this House by the opposition. And second, they've been doing nothing for the past few months. I claim that on behalf of my party's HDZ, when they cannot and when they do not pass when they remain in the minority then they obstruct the work of the Parliament. Gentlemen of the opposition, your problem is to understand that you are a minority. The sooner you figure it out, the more normal this Parliament is going to work.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-26-0.u27907	Is there anyone else out there looking for you? Yeah. IDS Damir Cain, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-26-0.u27908	Good to see you, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-26-0.u27909	Good to see you, too. Do you have any explanation for what might be an accident?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-26-0.u27910	Well, a visa for everything that happened last night or early in the morning also requires a small break from the IDS Club, so there it is.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-26-0.u27911	Okay. SDP, HDZ, IDS break 15 minutes. And HSS pardon.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-26-0.u27912	Mr. President, if you understand me correctly, we are asking a meeting with the President of the Croatian Parliament in that apartment to try to resolve the situation at the meeting tonight. And once again, I would like to point out this request to the Assembly on a very good note and ask you to call for a session. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-26-0.u27913	I've heard your suggestions, you've asked for a break, I'm taking a break because I've been obliged, approved, and I've had this planned in a break to discuss with the club presidents some issues that are related to how to finally establish a commission to prevent conflicts of interest. Because on several occasions on a repeated call, you know it well that no candidates for members are given, and we need to discuss this in line with the long-standing session of the extended presidency from the end of October. TO OUR CON Consensus over the composition and to choose the final committee to prevent conflicts of interest over the occupier. And I'm gonna have that meeting with you at the half-hour stop. Half-two. Are you still insisting on that break? We're going to have a conversation at half past noon, and I planned it, and I've already announced it. So don't knock on the open door. Here you go, buddy Tomci.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-26-0.u27914	Since I've made the request, Mr. President, on behalf of the four of these clubs, of course we will respond to the invitation for this meeting of yours that you're scheduled for in half two. But I was very clear, and we are now asking a meeting with the President of the Parliament for the above reasons. He can take 15 minutes, and let's try to use that break for this. We're asking you to approve.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-26-0.u27915	We'd like a meeting right now.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-26-0.u27916	With the President of the Parliament, that's right.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-26-0.u27917	I'm very curious and since I approved the break now is 10.37 so we'll continue in 15 minutes. Take the gentlemen to my office. Ladies and gentlemen, after this break and consultation with the presidents of the parliamentary parties' clubs on the proposal of SDP parliamentary parties, HSS, HNS, IDS, HSP, it was requested that the vote on yesterday's, tonight's vote on the confidence of Foreign Minister Miomir Zuzul be reconsidered. This was requested by the representatives of the clubs mentioned to reconsider, because they found that there was an irregular vote, that there was no quorum needed in the hall and suggested that the vote be re-voted and named vote. I will consult with representatives of clubs that form the ruling majority, the supportive majority, look at the video, think about it, and after that consultation, see what my view and position is in half two, at the extended Presidency where we will consider other topics related to the constitution and selection of the Committee for the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest and other topics. So we will make that decision later, now we will move on to the Final Proposal of the Law on the Rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families, second reading, P.Z. No. 180. Previously, I would like to welcome the Republic Coordination of Associations of People's War, the Association of the County Communities of the Associations of the Croatian Republic of Croatia, the Association of Associations of the widows of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War, which all associations and their representatives and representatives of defence associations are monitoring this debate from the gallery. I would like representatives and representatives of the Croatian Parliament to warmly welcome the representatives and representatives of these associations. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. [[Applause.]] The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply to the adoption of this law. The debate was conducted by committees on legislation, war veterans, work, social policy and health care. You received the reports at the session. I ask Mrs. Jadranka Kosor, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of the Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity to further explain the bill's proposal. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-26-0.u27919	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Madam MPs, gentlemen of the Parliament. Here is one of the most important projects of this government, at least in the first year of the term of office, and certainly the most important project of the Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity in the first year of the term of office, but also in the four-year period. This law, which you respected ladies and gentlemen in your first reading, was unanimously supported, which I would like to thank both in the name of the Ministry and in the name of the Croatian Government and in their own personal name, is an enforceable law, which is, by the assessment and association which I particularly welcome, of course, Croatian defenders and members of the defence families today, therefore, according to their assessment of the law that can be implemented, which can correct some shortcomings, which can correct the most important of some injustices and that is the law that is in line with the possibilities of the Croatian State at the moment. In the Croatian government, we discussed the law several times with representatives and coordination of both HVIDR and widows, several times, several times during these meetings was the personal president of the Croatian government, Dr. Ivo Sanader. Of course, this law that is now in front of you in the second reading cannot be and is not a wish list, all of which we would like to translate together as a sign of respect and as a token of gratitude in the Law on the Rights of the Croatian lawyers from the Homeland War and members of their families, but it is a real law which, in particular, I would like to highlight both as Vice-President and Secretary-General, brings some brand new institutes, some newspapers that have been welcomed by the World Veteran Federation, where this law has been highlighted as one of the laws that we can be proud of and which, in terms of solving the problem of veterans, or Croatian defenders and in terms of solving long-term not only problems but of status, i would say life, quality of life, one that can be considered a real step. I would like to say, ladies and gentlemen, in the introduction that both these Croatian governments and mine as resolute ministers, that this is a law that, when it comes into force in 1.1.2005, will be a law that will not have to be changed after two, three months, especially a law that will not be changed after any subsequent parliamentary elections, or regardless of the political forces' relationship here in the Croatian Parliament, or regardless of the composition of the Croatian government. I want ladies and gentlemen this to be a law that will survive the elections and will no longer be angered, no dispute, no bile, no bickering, because it always goes to the harm of Croatian defenders and members of their families, and therefore I urge you in the first place once again to consensus on the adoption of this law, to unanimity because this is exactly what I am sure to guarantee stability and, of course, a peaceful life worthy of man for Croatian defenders and members of their families. Once again, here I am now, when the law is in another reading, to present everything that I think is most important in the Law on the Rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families. What's most important is what's new, but I'll say a few words about the differences between the solution in the first and second reading. We have accepted several proposals and observations and boards of the Croatian Parliament and you, distinguished ladies and respected gentlemen representatives. So I believe that until the end of the debate with possible acceptance and yet another amendment, because they come from the board, but also from individuals' clubs, I believe that we can really come to an agreement on a good, quality, enforceable and law that will not have to be changed. Therefore, as a time for participation in the defence of the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia, time is recognised from 5 August 90th to 30th June 1996. It is precisely this provision that, I remind you, is particularly agreed and agreed with representatives of Croatian defenders' associations and members of their families. Under the defence of the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia, training and preparation to go to the battlefield would be considered as well, given the recognition of the status of Croatian wartime wartime invalids towards that basis. Instead of the idea of the late Croatian defender from the Homeland War, the concept of the death-sufficient Croatian defender from the Homeland War is introduced, and that is something that has arisen exactly, that is, within the working group that worked on this law, a group in which Croatian defenders, i.e. representatives of defence associations and associations representing both parents and widows, or children of the dead Croatian defenders, are also imprisoned and missing Croatian defenders. So the representatives were both accepted as partners and actively participated in the drafting of this law. A new term "killed Croatian defender from the Homeland War" is being introduced during imprisonment in the enemy camp. The circle of mortally injured persons extends to members of fire departments and to other persons who were killed in the defence of the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia by the authority of the state authorities. This provision allows the recognition of the rights and civil protection members who have suffered in the defence of the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia and persons who have performed intelligence in the role of defence of the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia by the authority of the state authority. Here, here, I also point out the difference between the first and the second reading. We have adopted several initiatives that came especially from the circle of the seamen's families, or members of the merchant navy crew, and we have included them in the provisions that speak of the circle of the deadly victims in the final draft of the law. I then highlight some more news in this law, such as the introduction of a new legal institute, so-called the lowest pension, or protected pensions for Croatian defenders. This protected pension if the Croatian Parliament supports this proposal, therefore, the introduction of this completely new institute would be 45% of the average salary of all employees in the Republic of Croatia in the year preceding that right. So that's something completely new. This provision, in our opinion, and in the opinion of many Croatian defenders with whom we have consulted about this very institute, the law is indeed, in the right sense, turning to the defenders, and that is one of its main objectives, i.e. the main objectives of this law. I would also like to point out that the pension of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War achieved under the general rule, so, according to the Pension Insurance Act, it increases by 10 to 30% depending on the time of participation in the Homeland War. Also from participation in the support of part of health care costs, therefore, participations are released by members of the family of the mortally injured Croatian defender from the Homeland War, members of the family of the imprisoned or missing Croatian defender and Croatian defenders, here I especially want to highlight, therefore Croatian defenders with physical damage to the body of at least 30%. So this also applies to Croatian defenders who, for various reasons, have been physically damaged at least 30%. As for Croatian military disableds and the release of participations from this base, I remind you of a special regulation, therefore, the Health Insurance Act. However, if there is any need, we will now, by the end of the debate, install and see that there are amendments in this regard, install more, I would say, a fuse to make this law completely clear and to see who is free of the payment of the participation. And the intensity is as you can see, and there's a lot of conversations we've had just and with Resolute Minister Dr Hebrang, Vice-President of the Government, and we've agreed to these very provisions because we think that the introduction of this formulation means Croatian body damage defenders of at least 30% who have been released from participation, that this step is a step further and actually a step further. Then, all the dead Croatian defenders from the Homeland War have the right to bury with honor, and the Croatian Defence Ministry will bear the costs. The prisoners in the enemy camp are returned to the right prescribed by the 96 Law, to have the status of the Croatian military disabled 10th group with 20% permanent damage to the organism. Also, the pension allowance becomes an integral part of the pension. It's the same thing that our friends from defense organizations insisted on. Something about housing. The right to provide housing for the award of a housing loan, i.e. by subsisting part of the cost of interest, would also be achieved by persons who have completed their work since the 5th phase of reconstruction. So the fifth phase of restoration would no longer be an obstacle to housing. And something else that we think will improve, i.e. to speed up the housing of Croatian defenders and members of their families, is a provision giving local self-government units the possibility to implement the building of facilities for the needs of persons who have the right to provide housing with loans and by established lists if they have residence in the area of that unit of local self-government. We believe that this provision will significantly speed up the care of Croatian defenders and members of their families who, by law, have the right to do so because of all the analyses so far, it is therefore housing that is being passed through all the laws on the rights of Croatian defenders. One of the biggest problems is that on the list, the waiting list is slightly less than 13,000 who have the right and are waiting for resolution, and we know that the solution to the housing problem for all, as well as for Croatian defenders and members of their families is one of the most important moments in life. We've allocated 485 apartments and 820 loans this year. Customs and tax reliefs for the import of a private car would be recognised unlike the applicable Act, meaning from 2001 and from the Croatian wartime disabled from Group 2 to 4 whose identified damage to the organism results in damage to the function of extreme or visual impairment. Then, I would also like to point out in particular that the basis for establishing the right to a family disability, the members of the family of the deadly Croatian defender from the Homeland War, who died or was killed, is increasing from a valid 40 to 50%. A family disability and for the deceased Croatian wartime invalid, 1st to 4th group, who used the care and assistance of another person to the death, increased from the current 15% to 25% of the base. Then we have several provisions concerning the much better quality care of children killed by Croatian defenders or children imprisoned and missing Croatian defenders, where they are granted a family disability during the service of the military period or after leaving regular schooling if the service started no later than 12 months after the end of regular schooling. Then they also have the right to a family pension, 12 months, so a year after the completion of schooling, just as it was established in the Family Law, because when we agreed on the basic principles of making this law, we agreed that this Law must be harmonised with other existing regulations in Croatia. The right to an allowance for children is introduced for children of the mortally injured Croatian defender from the Homeland War and children of imprisoned and missing Croatian defenders at the highest possible amount. So, for them, it's not worth the censorship which we also think is fair because in the place of the late Croatian defender when it comes to taking care of his children, we must all stand together, so the whole state. As for members of the family of the imprisoned and missing Croatian defenders from the Homeland War, they would have received a family disability in a continuum that would be recognised by official duty, those who are a little more concerned, who are aware of this problem, that it was often a problem that was almost insolvent and which had indeed not only frustrated the families of the imprisoned and missing Croatian defenders but had been unfair and difficult to understand and tolerable until they passed from one category of prisoners and missing in the category of dead and killed, they had to wait two years to regulate their rights. Otherwise, ladies and gentlemen, another identification was held yesterday in Zagreb, and we have identified 10 new victims of Croatian defenders and civilians from the Homeland War. It's mostly about postmortem remains found in a deep pit, pigeons in Lica, it's about victims mostly from the Broad Tower, the 7th, the youngest identified yesterday, was 17 years old, so the child, and by the convention on the rights of the United Nations child, which speaks naturally of the horror and horror of everything that happened but of course also speaks of the terrible rhythm of crime. In the Great Tower and elsewhere, we also identified two remains of Vukovar found at the site of the largest mass grave where 938 remains were found in the new cemetery and one victim from the Tovarnik. So we now have 1174 Croatian defenders and civilians on the list of prisoners and missing persons in Croatia. The provisions on the procedure for the recognition of rights introduce some newspapers that have proved necessary through the implementation of the existing Law. Thus, it is proposed not to obsess over rights based on the death of a Croatian defender from the Homeland War who committed suicide as a result of a mental illness caused by participation in the defence of the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia. It is important to reduce the extent of the documentation for the recognition of the right and what I would like to point out in particular when it comes to post-traumatic stress disorder that the time limit for recognition is, therefore, the period in which legitimate medical documentation for disease and death resulting from illness and suicide is extended from 30 days to 2 years for post-traumatic stress disorder to 10 years and longer with mandatory skills in authorised health institutions. I repeat this is a provision that is in line with the opinion and recommendations of the profession, both domestic and global and also this provision, and by recognition and by the assessments of the World Veteran Federation, we are making an extraordinary step in terms of and care, as well as respect for all the difficulties facing Croatian defenders today who, unfortunately, are still talking about those who are sick, did not come out of the war in their hearts and souls. It is also recognised that the right to medical and physical rehabilitation in all Croatian wartime wartime people from the Homeland War is extended, the deadline for submission of applications for the status of the Croatian Military invalid on the basis of a disease for 12 months from the entry into force of the Law as well as for the recognition of the right to a family disability behind the death of a Croatian defender. Also, ladies and gentlemen, I will repeat what I believe you well know the intensity of this Law, the intensity of getting as close as possible to the Croatian defenders, so that we do not wait for them to come to the Ministry to solve many accumulated problems, but to turn and move towards them. Thus, according to this Law, we propose the establishment of the regional units of the Croatian Ministry of Defence in all the districts and the City of Zagreb in order to be able to solve the most necessary jobs there, get information, get care but also show them an understanding of their problems. I would like to tell you this brief report on the most important segments of this Law and that we have accepted a lot of remarks from the first reading, both in Article 2, and in Article 3, in Article 14, in Article 19, 21, 23, 26, 30, 33, 36, so we have accepted very constructive remarks concerning housing care, construction but also observations that prevent a delay in the implementation of adjustments to buildings, I am talking about adjustments that are unusually important to Croatian military disableds. I believe there'll be a little more words about that later. Just at the end of the day, ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to say something about hiring Croatian defenders, about one of our biggest projects. So far, as you know, we have six measures taken by the Croatian government in the term of office, so until 2008. And according to these measures, according to the professional training measures for the famous, known, or for the unknown, or for self-employment, means for a well-known employer, an unknown employer and for self-employment, we have hired a thousand 100 Croatian defenders, and 527 Croatian defenders have carried out educational activities in order to acquire the first profession, i.e. retraining. So far, 10 cooperatives have been founded to a completely new extent in encouraging cooperatives and 23 monetary support has been granted to entrepreneurs who will employ 3 Croatian defenders under the agreement. We're just ahead of signing a contract with the county to realise measure 4, it's a small and medium-sized business loan. And also before signing the contract with users measures 6, we would support 23 business projects to that end. I would also like to remind you that it has been accepted, that amendments to the Income Tax Act to which those equally unbearable provisions on the payment of taxes on the pensions of parents and children of Croatian defenders are repealed. In the drafting of this law, I repeat again Croatian defenders have been accepted as partners, associations as partners always welcome in this debate but also in each other, because in everything we do, and you know that the Croatian Government has several times so far discussed several moves related to improving the living conditions of Croatian defenders from reprogramming loans to changing the existing law from 2001 to reducing the price of the apartment by 30%, etc. etc. So, in everything we do, in everything we do we never and at no time forget the fact that Croatian defenders were members of the victorious Croatian army and that without them there would be no free, independent, democratic and independent Croatia, but also that there would be no Croatian status to join the European Union, no expected date of negotiations, there would be nothing, there would probably not be us here today in this assembly if there were none of them, their wisdom, their courage and their determination. And that's why, ladies and gentlemen, I call upon you first of all to make this debate a tolerance. And secondly, I urge you to agree, so unanimously accept this bill and thus once again pay our respects to all of them. Finally, I would like to say that the coordination of the association supported at its meeting two days ago, once again this Final Proposal for the Law on the Rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-26-0.u27920	Thank you. Committee rapporteurs, War Veterans Committee, vice-president rapporteur, respected representative Josip Djakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-26-0.u27921	Thank you, Mr. President. Madam Vice-President of the Croatian Government and Minister of Family and Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity, Mr Secretary, Counselors, ladies and gentlemen, fellow MPs, respected friends from the Associations of the Homeland War I welcome you all and the Committee on War Veterans of the Croatian Parliament at its 12th session held on November 25th 2004, discussed the Final Proposal of the Law on the Rights of Croatian Defence from the Homeland War and the members of their families submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia by the Act of 18 November 2004. The Committee held the discussion as a parent body pursuant to Article 81. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. Committee meetings were attended by representatives of associations arising from the Homeland War. In the opening statement, the applicant's representative made the main differences between the proposal and the final draft of the law, i.e. which observations and proposals from the debate in the first reading were respected and incorporated into the Final Proposal for Law. The most important differences are seen in the introduction of a time limit for members of armed national protection teams unless they have the continuity of participation in the defence of the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia. By introducing the possibility of achieving the status of a volunteer of the Homeland War for Croatian defenders who were not military bonds, women, incapable of military service and minors. If they participated in the defence of the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia for at least 30 days. Some minor changes in the regulation of pension and disability rights, prescribing the possibility of exercising the right for members of the family of the imprisoned or missing Croatian defender from the Homeland War, in the height and... of members of the family of the mortally injured Croatian defender from the Homeland War, and of some differences which are unambiguously harmonised by the law. The funding needed to implement this law is 3 billion and 640 million kuna, which is an increase from the previous proposal for another 250 thousand 600 kuna compared to the bill. The proposer stressed that the Government of the Republic of Croatia will most likely submit some amendments to the Final Proposal for the Law in order to further improve them and remove nomotechnical deficiencies. The representatives of the home war associations support the adoption of the law, with observations and proposals made in the first reading for which they were not respected and some new ones on the Final Bill proposal such as: the regulation of the time period from 30 April 91 to 15 January 92 in which members of the armed provisions of national protection had to implement at least 6 months in order to achieve the status of Croatian defender from the Homeland War. An increase in the value point in determining the age pension for police officers and special forces, police officers of the Ministry of Interior, including a pension allowance for members of the MUP who were entitled to an age pension under the Law on the first of the pension insurance of persons employed by military personnel, police officers and authorised officials. The right for children of the mortally injured Croatian defender from the Homeland War who have no other parents to increase their family pension and 12 months after the termination of regular schooling if they are unemployed. In addition to the definition of a volunteer of the Homeland War, there is also a way to include the defence sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia. volunteering, and considering reducing the time limit from 100 days to 60 days. The Committee members welcomed the inclusion of some of the comments and proposals made in the first reading. Both the Committee itself and the MPs individually, and stressed that this made the Final Bill a better quality. The debate suggests extending the definition of Croatian defender from the Homeland War to members of the National Guard Assembly and members of the crisis headquarters. It is also proposed to reduce the time limit of 100 days, which is a condition for achieving the status of a volunteer from the Homeland War, and a period of 3 days for obtaining the status of a prisoner Croatian defender. The proposed remarks and suggestions of the Associations of Homeland War will also be met by the Government of the Republic of Croatia who can install them in its amendments. After the debate was held, the Committee decided to support the Croatian Assembly's proposal to adopt the Law on the Rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families with the following amendments. Amendment 1, in Article 2(1), behind the words: "Member of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia and of the Open brackets", the words "ZNG and comma" are added in the translation of the National Guard Assembly. The reasons, the law amending and supplementing the Internal Affairs Act, which was adopted by the Assembly of the Republic of Croatia on 22 April 91st in Article 11(3), mentions the National Guard Assembly as the only armed formulation with the Croatian police. The Law specifies the establishment, establishment and command of the National Guard. The Law on the Defence of the National Journal 49/91. Article 38 said that armed forces constitute a single whole and consist of the Croatian Army and the National Guard Assembly. The Public Review of the National Guard Assembly with the presence of the President of the Republic of Croatia and the Supreme Commander of the Armed Forces of the highest political summit of the law and executive power on 28 May 91st at the stadium of the football club Zagreb is considered the Day of Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia. The National Guard Assembly with Croatia was the only armed formulation of the Republic of Croatia until the establishment of the Croatian Army. For these reasons, it is necessary to specify the Croatian defender from the Homeland War in particular the National Guard Assembly. Amendment 2, in Article 5(3), the following wording is added: seamen, crew members, merchant Navy ships. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The law. Amendment 3, in Article 11(2), behind the words "members of the family of the imprisoned, missing Croatian defender from the Homeland War", added the point and the words "Croatian wartime, military disabled from the Homeland War". The reasons proposed for the amendment are to bring the provisions in line with the Health Insurance Act, which states in its Article 18(2) that the difference between the full value of the right to health care and with personal health insurance to all Croatian wartime wartime persons from the Homeland War whose status has been recognised under the Law on the Rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families is provided by the Republic of Croatia. So that there would be no ambiguous interpretations, that there would be no administrative errors in obtaining that right to this amendment and this argument we would ask that the Law on the Rights of Croatian Lawyers should also be signed down with all Croatian wartime disabled persons to participate so that this Law which lex specialis would not repeal the Health Insurance Act. There's so much Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament and thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-26-0.u27922	Thank you very much. Committee on Labour and Social Policy and Health, Committee President, Honored Representative Marko Turic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-26-0.u27923	Dear Mr. President, the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Government. The Committee on Labour and Social Policy and Health at the 19th session of the Committee held on 25 November 2004 discussed the Final Proposal of the Law on the Rights of Croatian Defence from the Homeland War and members of their families, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia by the Act of 18 November 2004. The Committee discussed the Law as an interested working body in accordance with Article 140. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. As pointed out in the extensive debate during the first reading of the Law, as well as in the joint thematic session of this Committee and the Committee on War Veterans, the proposed amendments, as well as adopted remarks from the debate during the first reading, improves the position of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families. The proposed amendments are in line with the real material possibilities of the Republic of Croatia, and therefore the prescribed rights are not only of a declarative nature, but they are, on the contrary, fully financially enforceable. During the debate, it also drew attention to the establishment of the Croatian Memorial Documentation Centre, although it is not directly related to the provisions of this Act. Thus, the undivided opinion of the Committee members is that the uncontested importance and role of the Centre, which would, through historical and factual representation of the Homeland War, be based on the scientific historical...archive structure, promote truths and testimonies of the Homeland War. In line with the conclusion of the Croatian Parliament, the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the club of HSP representatives are obliged to form a joint final draft law. Laws are expected to be passed in the Croatian Parliament during 2005, to join the establishment of the Centre. The government of the Republic of Croatia explained that in 2005 it would certainly provide funds to take preparatory actions so that the Centre could start working. After the discussion, the members of the Committee unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament for the adoption of the Law on the Rights of Croatian Lawyers from the Homeland War and members of their families, as proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-26-0.u27924	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. First of all, the representatives' clubs. The club of HSP representatives respected representative Pero Kovacevic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-26-0.u27925	Dear Croatian defenders, members of the family of the dead Croatian defenders and Croatian wartime wartime disabled, colleagues and colleagues. First, on behalf of the HSP Club, I must say that from this proposal, the final proposal shows that there is a significant difference between the programme's commitment of the Croatian Party to resolve the legal position of the Croatian defenders of the deceased families in relation to what the Government is offering, but that is, inevitability, let's try to do as well as possible in such a situation, because we have set out what most Croatian defenders have and asked for the Law of 96, and so complemented to remove all irregularities and anything else that should have been removed in order to be applicable. The second important challenge of our Club of HSP is what we were promised and told how we would discuss this law before the state budget was passed. Unfortunately, we do not do this, but we do it after the state budget is adopted, and then it goes on to say that everything we do and say that there is no room for anything else to address status rights. And the third important thing. The HSP club here has 13 circular amendments, I see there are others, and I suggest on behalf of the HSP Club that this law goes to third reading. If you need a fourth reading. Because there's nothing to rush now, and we can solve everything that's important for the law to be enforceable by this deadline. And it's not practical, I'll tell you why it's not feasible. First, the HSP Club remains with those of our principled remarks. We didn't have a first reading, neither do we now, nor did we have a full simulation of which number of Croatian defenders this Law will apply to. We know we don't even know what the real number is today. Although the late President Tudjman said precisely in his 97th letter that it was 340,000 Croatian defenders, there were subsequent increases. We don't know how many of these laws we're going to have new Croatian wartime, military disableds, and it remains means a lot of these unknowns, which suggests a third reading is required. The first but very important and cardinal mistake contained in this whole concept of the Law refers to the fact that this Law does not go towards being developed, means not employed, over 40 and some thousands of Croatian defenders are employed because there is no such intensity. So the first most important thing was to hire Croatian defenders. Let's hire Croatian defenders. Just the fact that only 35 million this year, next year it's planned to say there's no big one and there won't be much employment, and then it's normally said there's no money. And I'll tell you, we get and again we get one as a super-made loan contract with the World Bank and with each of these contracts with the World Bank up to 10% goes to consulting services and those, so Croatia doesn't get that 10%, but the World Bank decides who gets it. Although we are in debt with the World Bank and we already have about 10 billion euros, that means that in this way Croatia is left without a billion and do not make such favourable loans and say that they are very favourable. And in that part, we'd have reserves to do what we should do, to do the projects ourselves, not to have projects done to us by consultants of the World Bank. We spoke in employment, but I do not understand why Croatian defenders are being discriminated against. Look at the right to employment in Article 35 we have said this before and it is said that this right applies to advantage, primarily in employment for all places says it applies except to executive posts. Look out, except for the executives! What kind of message are we sending? And we don't have anywhere in any regulations defined as executive places. It means this to you, that the public, public company, the fund will tell you, and that the walk of the cleaning lady is a management place for them. So the defense attorney won't even be able to be six cleaners according to this provision. Because he writes except for executive jobs. So we send a message to Croatian defenders if they report to competitions, do not put you as a Croatian defender, do not put you as a Croatian defender, because Article 35(2) speaks, he says, except for the management posts. And how's it going out there? Take the diplomacy of Great Britain, America, France, and you will see that they are both in diplomacy and in the government and in all places their defenders because they take care of their own. Therefore, I believe that the vice president doesn't know it and she didn't, and that she missed it, but let's not do that, that's how we treat Croatian defenders because she is essentially, this provision is objectively discriminatory. Better not to put anything in place than one of these discriminatory provisions. Furthermore, as the Law has been made, here is an article 2 that speaks of people's protection. It was done in this proposal so that no one would achieve their status against national protection. Why don't you get your status out of folk protection? Because of the facts next. Is the decision of the then Supreme State Council, which was the night of June 20th, 91st, when the Serbian Southern Army committed an aggression on Slovenia, a decision was made to establish the provisions of national protection. I wrote it, I wrote it and... That decision. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And therefore, from June 30, 91 to December 24, 91, there are no 6 months. There's not six months, so no one would ever get that right. Furthermore, as far as Article 2 is concerned, if the Law is working, look at the Law on Defence, and you will see that all have a military obligation, men at the age of 17 and military obligations consist of a recruiting obligation, military service and a duty to serve in the written composition. And this diction for volunteers at least 30 days, he says if he wasn't a military official, you know who he'd be, but it wasn't meant to be, but as it says, it would only have been referred to as being militaryly incompetent and it wouldn't have been about what he meant, and it's about the recruits who were, so they weren't at military service, but they volunteered. Like this one, those who were declared militaryly incompetent, and women wouldn't be thought of. Well, that's how it's supposed to be written because there's nothing to know who that applies to. And that's why we offered the amendment, we filed first, sir, I'm glad you filed, too, come on! We will now go to the situation related to Article 4. Namely, three days are required for imprisonment or in an enemy camp or prison, three days are sought. I can give you five examples where people were held, it was a special meeting here I don't know who, little, no one was at that meeting, there was also late Minister Sušak and Mr General Gotovina and there were associations and there were many examples, I know them personally I won't list them all now. In Knin, people were two days and less than two days, for those 24 and 32 hours, so they were physically harassed and 5 to 6 times were carried out for the shooting, 5 to 6 times were carried out for the shooting and so worse they could and worse they passed than someone who was 30 days where the Red Cross was immediately involved and everything else. Therefore, this is where you should take care. When it comes to this Article 11(2), which refers to the release from participation, it is interesting that the general regulation is more favourable for defenders than... Specialises and the Law on the Rights of Croatian Lawyers should be... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Special. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That was the situation that was now fixed, so there was, there were repairs that must be recognised as the starting factor for professional incompetence, it was put in place that we reacted 0.33 and otherwise it was 0.50 according to general regulations. And now we come to the part that we also judge by very bad, which is to make a difference between Croatian military disableds and the families of the murdered. Therefore, what status did man have at the time of the wound, or at the time of his death? Now that's really inadmissible, that's really inadmissible. If three, four, five members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia were killed by the same grenade, one was the reserve, the other three, four, five members of the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia. One of these was the reserve, the other was national protection, the third guard unit and the fourth special police force, they would have different rights, different pensions. Why? Why are we doing this? Why are we doing this? That's the same situation with the families of the dead. Why are we doing this? What's that for? Especially since we need to be aware of the fact that those who have exercised the right to pensions, means families, Croatian wartime military disableds so far. They get into... That, if we had less to do with this law, we'd go to their advantage and that's fine. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But those of you who didn't do it, and there's an x example of waiting for a year and a day to solve the status, one year at a time, and then the subject comes back because they're confirmed, is asked for six months. The administration hasn't done its part and is returning to retrial. And they will have smaller, far smaller. It's going to be smaller because it's a different calculation. You have the same situation with the families of the dead if one finishes a member of regular schooling then you go to do a new calculation of pensions and then he has the most favourable status. The parents of the dead Croatian defenders were promised, both the former government and this tax and tax exemption. Is that done? It's not. And that's why we gave that part, and that amendment. So these are things that we really can't understand why these differences are being made? And what Royce says will be "Whoever put the pit, who didn't cave, will have nothing." Now, we can't let that happen. So we stick to what was agreed on in 1996. Let us not distinguish between Croatian wartime wartime people and do not distinguish between the families of the dead according to their status. That's not allowed. Next thing you know, it's important to say. Privileges, a significant number of Croatian defenders had no money and could not achieve the benefits of importing a private car. Why isn't that given to them now? You promised to give it to them. Yes, it is. You all promised. Why can't you do that? Who are we protecting here with these benefits, who? Do we have a car industry? We don't. So let's accept that part. And especially for Special Forces. Mirko Filipovic and I were from the MPs, we supported all those parts put here, all that stuff. One piece was placed earlier, but we were saying, "Special police have calls, the army has rank." So put it on that the Home Secretary is prescribing because there are no rank in the special police force, there are calls. He's got a name, so let's do it that way. We also resolve all those Croatian defenders whether they left the Croatian Army or the police in retirement, but not under the Pension Insurance Act of the General, but under the Pension Insurance Act, of the staff of members of the police and authorised persons or the enforcement of sanctions. We give them too, we give them the amendment. The same part, not in this amount of 10 to 30 but a smaller amount. Therefore, I will speak later in an individual part of the debate, we suggest that the law goes to third reading and that we protect if we want Croatian defenders and members of their family. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-26-0.u27926	Correction of the incorrect allegations, respected representative Josip Djakic. Correction of the incorrect allegations, respected representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-26-0.u27928	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, I will correct the incorrect allegation of a distinguished colleague, Pera Kovacevic, in which he claimed that this Law would not be enforceable. The law will be implemented safely as long as there is such political will and respect for Croatian defenders and is not dependent on the budget because budget rebalance can be done at any time when it will be necessary if the number of Croatian defenders increases. I would like to say one more thing that night, June 20th, probably lasted 10 days in Croatia for the first time.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-26-0.u27929	Other correction, Other correction Honorable representative of Jure Bitunjac [[Mr. President.]] Injury of the Rules of Procedure. [[Mr. President.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-26-0.u27930	... He wasn't on, on that part. [[The speaker was subsequently turned on.]] 20 to 30.6.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-26-0.u27931	You can't go under the firm.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-26-0.u27932	I can, I can when... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-26-0.u27933	Please sit down.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-26-0.u27934	No, I can.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-26-0.u27935	Please sit down. ... You abuse, you permanently abuse the institution of breach of the Rules of Procedure. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] You're reporting for your correction of an incorrect quote and you're trying to paralyze. You can't and you don't know it and you won't understand it and you won't understand it once. Honorable representative of Jure Bitunjac, correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-26-0.u27936	Thank you, Mr. President. So I think the complete interpretation of the law that is before us, the Croatian Defence Act by Mr. Pera Kovacevic is absolutely incorrect. I'm surprised you really did, and I thought you did something, something else, not law school. Now let me put it to article 35 of my observation.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-26-0.u27937	Not your observation, correcting an incorrect assumption.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-26-0.u27938	No, correcting an incorrect quote is not true, it's not true. It is not true that the Croatian defender cannot be in the executive position. He may be but it makes sense if it's about the president of the administration, companies owned by a state or units of local self-government to him, that just because he's a defender, he can't in any way eliminate the other candidates. But when it comes to other jobs, when it comes to other jobs, then I thank God that he has the advantage over other candidates, provided he meets all other conditions. That's what this is about. And I have to say that what you're saying, you're in favour of some Thessaloniki syndrome, and that's not what neither the association nor this Croatian government nor this Parliament want.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-26-0.u27939	Vlado Jelkovac, correction of an incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-26-0.u27940	I am correcting Mr Kovacevic's quote where he said there is no point in discussing it since the budget has already been adopted and nothing can be done. On the contrary, in order to do something and start the law from 1.1.2005, this law should be discussed and adopted, and certain things can, of course, be corrected during the year by any rebalancing or disbursement from the budget reserve. And the second quote I want to correct is what Mr. Bitunac was talking about. Namely, the defenders will not be able to be executives related to Article 35 of course not because this article does not regulate the issue but only the right of the championship.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-26-0.u27941	The next amendment, a respected representative, Vice President Darko Milinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-26-0.u27942	Here is after this emotional, under quotes, presentation of the distinguished representative Kovacevic, the predecessors have corrected the incorrect quote, and I think it is good to say once again that this Law in no part of it discriminates against Croatian defenders, and if in the event of a competition for leadership when they put themselves in the same position as the others, I hope it is not discrimination.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-26-0.u27943	And distinguished representative Franjo Arabovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-26-0.u27944	Your Honor, Mr. President, my colleague, Djakic corrected me because I thought, but I would say only one thing that, in this speech, it seems that everything I didn't do is inconclusive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-26-0.u27945	Minister, Deputy Prime Minister, Mrs. Jadranka Kosor, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-26-0.u27946	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, respected representatives of the associations, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, I will not report behind all the clubs but I must simply report behind Mr. Pera Kovacevic's resignation in order to know what the government's position is on the fundamental request of the Croatian Party of Rights Club. The requirement was for the law to go into the third or so, as Mr Kovacevic said in the fourth reading. I'll start at the end. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament do not provide for a fourth reading, and the third reading is unacceptable for the Croatian government for a simple reason, which would mean that the law will not enter into force in 1.1.2005. So this would mean prolonging uncertainty for Croatian defenders and members of their families, who knows that when for this Croatian government it is completely unacceptable. We want all these institutes that we are predicting in the law, such as the introduction of the lowest pension for Croatian defenders, envisioned that the new institute would already exercise that right next year. So you're proposing a prolongation, you're proposing an indefinite delay, it's totally unacceptable for us in the Croatian government, because we want a finally peaceful and dignified life of Croatian defenders. As far as this proposal of yours is concerned, i.e. your thoughts on how the law should have been passed before the budget, all that is necessary for the implementation of the budget law is included and the budget for the implementation of this law is osgiura. If the law wasn't enforceable you say because if we didn't have full simulations, we'd done hundreds of simulations, from these provisions to implement this new institution protected guaranteed pensions, to all other institutes. You also say you respect the Croatian government and this Ministry for not having a final number of Croatian defenders. I remind you that you were the assistant minister of Croatian defence in that last government or ministry, so you should have done that job if you thought it was one of the most important jobs. And that it should now be done in the first few months of this government. You are also incorrectly presenting 40,000 unemployed Croatian defenders, at the beginning of the term of office of this government, the number of unemployed Croatian defenders was more than 27% and 27 and a half thousand, respectively. It's about 25 grand today. We're saying let's hire Croatian defenders, to accept, we're just 6 measures that I've been talking about for a few days, we've managed to hire Croatian defenders. The government has accepted the programme, and we are significantly reducing the number of unemployed Croatian defenders by 2008. And as far as the conclusion is concerned, your remarks were to be freed from the taxes of the family of Croatian dead Croatian defenders or parents and children. Yeah. I also said in my introduction, you probably didn't hear, that here are the discussions of amendments and additions to the law, or, new income tax law. WHERE these embarrassing decisions are deleted about parents or children paying taxes on their own eves, unfortunately dead family members. I repeat once again to the atom, Mr. President, for us in the Croatian Government, it is an unacceptable suggestion that this law goes into the third reading. Because of the fact that this law has the support of defense organizations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-26-0.u27947	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect alleged representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-26-0.u27948	Madam Vice President said more incorrect things. First of all, I didn't say on behalf of the HSP Club that it would extend the adoption of the third reading so long it would be a year. I already said by the end of this session. So until 15.12. until the regular session is according to the Constitution. As far as the number of Croatian defenders was concerned, 99 was exactly 378 thousand. And I don't know why you don't have those papers anymore. As for the number of unemployed, there are 40 of them because this is just data from the employment office, and we know how to get rid of it, to get rid of it.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-26-0.u27949	Croatian Democratic Community Representatives' Club, respected representative Kresimir Cosic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-26-0.u27950	Dear Mr. President, Your Honor, Madam Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. The most important thing to say in the beginning is a great greeting to all Croatian defenders, especially you who are here with us today. All representatives of all Croatian defence associations. What to say about the new law. First and foremost, he would point out the following. It's a significant step forward compared to what we've had so far. The creation and design of this law has been made a huge joint effort by the resolute ministry of all defence associations and Croatian defenders, and for these reasons, the Croatian Democratic Community Club will give full support to this law. Furthermore, this Law is next to what is a good law here, but I want to highlight those good laws and because of the following fact because in the best possible way it harmonizes the available limited resources in the state budget with all the legitimate rights of Croatian defenders. It would certainly be good and very good if, in order to achieve all the legitimate rights of all Croatian defenders, we could have more financial resources in the mood. However, this is simply not possible because today in Croatia you do not live well, looking for more unfortunately could endanger someone else's rights. For this reason, both this Law and the Croatian defenders in general have feelings socialized for all others who are also justified in the need for social care. What I think should certainly be particularly highlighted and in which the Croatian Democratic Community Club gives full support is related to the employment of Croatian defenders. In both this and that plan, significant results have been made, and even more can be done on this plan in the coming period. And certainly this resolute ministry with all the efforts it has made so far we have every right to expect more will be done because the employment of Croatian defenders at all levels in Croatian society is also important for the full affirmation of Croatian defenders. Because if they could do more complex jobs at wartime, manage thousands not to tell hundreds of thousands of people, in the most complex and risky situations, then I'm sure that today at the time of the war and my professional management psychological skills can demonstrate not only in different places but also in the highest places in Croatia. The boards, the boards, and so on. There are a whole series of Croatian defenders and generals who work in such places today, with a lot of success affirming themselves, and affirming the defence population. Today, this affirmation in peace is equally important because it confirms that they were capable people, not only in war, but in the best possible way they show it today, too, by their work in society. And unfortunately, it's not allowed to know anything about it in Croatian media, it doesn't want to write. And that's what he's hiding about. And once I pointed that out four years ago, some people welcomed it with a smile. That's one thing. The second thing, the HDZ Club will also give full support to all efforts by the forward ministry regarding the additional education of Croatian defenders. Education of Croatian defenders at all levels is extremely important. For the same reason for their full affirmation in society, this lifelong continuous education is an important concern for the full affirmation of Croatian defenders and their families. And I think there's been a lot of work here, but there's also a way to do more. I would now like to say a few words about what I call a big picture of the rights of Croatian defenders and this big picture, which creates the legitimate rights of all Croatian defenders, as I often stress from several pillars. The first most important pillar is related to this Law. And this Law, in any case, has its results today and in everything it provides in the further exercise of all the rights of Croatian defenders, I would say the most important pillar of that building. Another important pillar is related to the Croatian defenders' fund, and when we talk about the rights of Croatian muzzlers, then we need to talk about all those institutions that stand in the mood of Croatian defenders to exercise all their rights and these institutions are the result of the organized efforts of today's Croatian Defence Ministry. We certainly must not forget some of the other elements and other important pillars that we have worked on and on which we have discussed. The Homeland War Memorial centre is also an important institution that deserves support, which deserves joint efforts to make it work and could affirm the entire Homeland War project. I especially stress another institution that we discussed when we discussed the Memorial Documentation Centre of the Homeland War, which is a scientific institution, the Homeland War Institute is a very important institution and is not in any conflict with those previous pillars, but even I would say complementary and extremely important. These four pillars through which defenders exercise their rights are based on something called the truth about the Homeland War and that foundation should also be designed, played, established, because all rights of Croatian defenders originate from this foundation, i.e. the truth about the Homeland War, which is best and best given in the Declaration of the Homeland War, and therefore this Declaration should be affirmed at every opportunity. However, affirmation of the Homeland War without the Homeland War Institute will not be possible, what is most important on the international scene. It is very important to us that there is a correct and objective truth in the international community about the Homeland War, and this must be just the efforts of organised scientists, and this must be led by a scientific institution. Keep going. What I would also like to highlight in this brief presentation. Rights of Croatian defenders of the Croatian Defence Council. Unfortunately, their status has not been fully resolved until the end of the day, but it seems to me that this will be done very soon, done through an interstate agreement and through some amendments that need these rights of Croatian defenders of the Croatian Council of Defense to protect and secure. It is not too much to mention that without the Croatian Council, a lot of defence would be different. There wouldn't be a Croatian south, that's for sure. These are not political claims, these are claims made by people who understand themselves in the military profession and those who participated in the Homeland War. Without the Croatian Council of Defence, without a quality defence organization in the area of Rujana Celebici on the direction Livna question what would happen to Split, etc. And that is why quality protection and help to achieve all the rights of Croatian defenders of the Croatian Council of Defence is our permanent task and I believe that very soon and through the corresponding amendments and supplements in this respect their status will significantly improve. In the end, I would especially like to impose an important problem, we point it out, but I think today may not be enough about it, it is related to the mental health of Croatian defenders, because this prevalence that is related to PTSD syndrome is extremely dangerous because it endangers the health of Croatian defenders. Let's not forget that 1800 people committed suicide. Let us not forget that over 100,000 interventions a year are related to all those who have problems with their mental health due to PTSD syndrome. What may not be pointed out enough, is not a problem for individuals, we need to talk about PTSD family, because a family where fathers are sick, mentally, unfortunately comes to trauma and in the whole family and that is one issue that deserves special attention and I would say the wider organised effort of the entire society, not only this ministry, and I believe that the other ministries will also make their full contribution, the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Science, etc. And I can tell you, Madam Vice President, that given what is being done in Croatia today, that PTSD hospital therapy is advanced by appropriate new technologies has been recognised worldwide and that next year, at 6 months, we will have a scientific gathering where the world's most prominent institutions, over 10 from the United States, Great Britain, the Netherlands, etc. will be held. The world has a lot of interest in the problem we are facing, because it is not only a Croatian problem, but it is a general problem, especially today in conditions where an increasing number of states participates in peace operations. I'm closing up. All that has been done so far to improve the Law on the Rights of Croatian Defences deserves our full attention, our full support and therefore the HDZ Club will support today's vote on this Law. Madam Vice-President, I hope that in the future you will continue to work on this very important, complex and responsible job, with regard to the exercise of the rights of Croatian defenders and that, as you have so far, you will have their full support, and I hope you will also do so in a more responsible place in the future, the president of the Croatian state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-26-0.u27951	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Club of Representatives Mr. Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-26-0.u27952	Your Honor, Mr Vice President, Your Honor, Madam Vice President. Stay on that job and keep on doing good, and good, good. For now, that's it. But let's get back to the subject now. Here, bearing in mind that we spent up to 1 o'clock last night here last night, I will be really brief and first to say that there is no country that rightly resolves the issue of defenders, but what does the Republic of Croatia do. And not from now on, since the Ministry has led Mrs. Kosor, but it's done very correctly, I dare say all these last ten years. It was like that during the former government. Maybe I just resent the former minister of some awkwardness over the determination of disability, more specifically the revision of disability, for example. It was not necessary to touch Mr. Bestek in the right of the 10% when a man was badly injured, when a man was so badly injured, it is irrelevant whether someone was receiving a 100% or 90% disability. This is my judgment, it may not be right, but I repeat, it's my judgment. The second thing I'm saying is that the IDS Club will back this bill. But we disagree with one part of this law absolutely, Madam Vice President, that is this financial assessment of how much money it is necessary to provide here, and here I am, above all, starting from this Article 31, which speaks of the lowest pensions. It is said in paragraph 1 that the beneficiary of a disabled or family pension which is partly, sorry, no, that item 4. that the lowest pension is determined by a base of 45% of the average net salary of all employees in the Republic of Croatia in the year preceding the year of exercise of rights and according to the data of the State Statistics Office. Accordingly, I am convinced that only in 2005 if, for example, at least two thousand people go into retirement, they will need to secure at least 20 million kuna in the budget. Next year, so 2006. 40 million kuna, 2007. 80 million kuna. If he retires every year for two thousand people, in the end, Madam Vice President, it will be more than one billion kuna. A little while ago, the vice president mentioned the possibility that she would retire on that basis next year, that is, to use that base somewhere around 10,000 people. If so, then in the budget on this basis we will have to secure at least 60, 70, and perhaps 100 million, 50 million kuna now says Mrs Kosor, and that 50 million kuna is not shown in that financial basis. Finally, I said, on this basis, the Republic of Croatia in 10 or 15 years might be 500, 600, maybe billions of kunas. Here's one small reserve on my part that went into all of this without any exaggerating simulations, and I'm so sure that this change is the most important legal change. She's extremely brave, no one knows what this will still mean for our budget I said in 10 or 15 years, but IDS like the case will vote for this law and it can't be disputed. However, when I talk about it, it is my impression that the government is transferring the burden to a future government, as is the case with so-called so-called. Reimbursement of debt to pensioners through shares. Unfortunately, the 2005 budget for us, unfortunately only 17 members of the opposition were against this key political, socio-economic document, and unfortunately these funds are not included in the financial data of the Republic of Croatia for 2005. Since the budget itself is behind us, certainly no members of NOB, more specifically the disabled of World War II, I'm talking about the disabled, equalising rights with the disabled of the Homeland War. If this country has decided to turn away from a policy that was largely led until 2000, then that is a step to be taken. Next year, according to this proposal, it will need to provide 3 billion and 641 million kuna. It is 269 million kuna more than in 2004, but even 823 million kunas more than in 2003. You have to admit, this is about huge resources. I believe that, either in this law or in some similar law, provisions should be incorporated that would also recognise the status of a political prisoner to the prisoners of the concentration in the period 41 to 45. The clear funds are not provided in the budget again. It also needs to be fought for the status of prisoners on the Molat, but it will go hard. Why? Because Italy has paid off the war damage to ex-Yugoslavia, but Croatia needs to engage in this and right now that the Fine is headed by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs next to us in Italy, as Croatia should be more renouncing about that these prisoners from Mathausen, Idaho, etc. a period of compensation from Germany. So keeping in mind the facts, and IDS has always stood up for that and keeping in mind the information to say in Istria, Rijeka, etc. Many of our citizens, somewhere 12,000 get what's called. Italian pensions due to the fact that they had to serve the Italian army, I appeal that the disabled who responded to Franjo Tudjman's call in Bosnia and Herzegovina also got disabled. I'm talking about disabled people. I will once again say, unlike Mr. Cosic, I condemn Franjo Tudjman's policy in Bosnia and Herzegovina from 92 to 94, but if it is the disabled, then I am on their side. And last time I mentioned a case of a few individuals like that. Đure Horacheka, Marić Marina, Ljubice Marić, Spernjak, Radanovica, etc. These are people who spent 4, 5, 6 years in Serbian prisons for spying in favour of the Republic of Croatia, and when they returned to the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia forgot these people not to say a word. They did not betray her, they slaved for her in Belgrade or in Serbian case files, but when they returned to the Republic of Croatia, they were left without flats, no jobs, no existence, and I think it's a civilizational shame to talk about in this pay phone. So instead of seeing them as heroes, say, they're from the state they're in charge of expressing themselves, betrayed. I repeat, for the benefit of Croatia, they served 4, 5, some 6 years in prison, and today some of them live in refugee camps such as Djuro Horaček, who lives with a sick woman and two adult children in Kamenjak, Pula, in a room of 20 or 30 square meters. I believe that we gentlemen must make it right. If it was possible to close the site of the Rabbit family which was a great move, a great move, this case has to be solved as well. All in all, here I dare say that this law is a brave step, we at the IDS Club support it, but we also want to say that the newspapers that are proposed will ultimately cost the state budget 500, 600, 700, maybe a billion kuna. This is also to be discussed, although it is a pension solution that we will surely all support. I'm gonna say one more time that the IDS Club will be in. The IDS Club is against car benefits, tractors, machines, baggers, combiners, etc. Yes, but not for cars while, unlike disabled people, they simply need to be made possible. And we put a clear emphasis on hiring defenders, but it will only be launched if a new economic cycle is launched in the Republic of Croatia. It is clear that this last one may be the hardest at this time when there are about 300 thousand unemployed in the Republic of Croatia and when unemployment rates are 15, 16, and perhaps more than one percent. All in all, the brave law and the IDS Club greets him.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-26-0.u27953	Mr. Representative, because of the inappropriate speech and condemnation of President Tudjman's policy in Bosnia and Herzegovina, in an inappropriate way, so the first Croatian President I am giving you for such a qualification of notice. Mr. Kresimir Cosic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-26-0.u27954	Dear Parliamentarian Mr. Cain said, I quote "that he disagrees with President Tudjman's policy". It is, Mr. Caine, your right and I have no right to dispute your right, but what I want to point out. You, unfortunately, do not understand and do not know the policy of the late President Tudjman towards Bosnia and Herzegovina for a simple reason...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-26-0.u27955	Is that a correction or a replica?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-26-0.u27956	Replic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-26-0.u27957	Can't replica to exposure...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-26-0.u27958	Well, I've been mentioned, I've been mentioned.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-26-0.u27959	He can't replica the presentation of the club's representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-26-0.u27960	But you have when you mention it yourself, the article...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-26-0.u27961	If you want a correction, it's a correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-26-0.u27962	Well, then, correcting an incorrect quote. ... Correction of an incorrect quote, here's your permission, allow me, allow me to... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] you do not understand and you could not learn from Croatian media, and that is why I reiterate the need for a scientific approach regarding the evaluation and interpretation of historical facts, especially everything related to the war in Bosnia and Herzegovina. [[The speaker is off, you can't hear it.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-26-0.u27963	It wasn't a correction, it was an opinion, but since we've overcome this thing in this way, we're moving on. Correction of the incorrect quote, Mr. Josip Djakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-26-0.u27964	Mr. Vice President, I will correct the inaccuracies of my colleagues, Caine, who claimed that all governments had devoted extraordinary care to Croatian defenders. Surely that's not true and it's not true. We saw protests from 25 to 50 thousand, up to 100,000 people, Croatian defenders against the government who, as you mentioned, ignored the actual death of Darko Beshtik. And not to go into the details, please don't just mention how thoughtful everyone was and how much they appreciated Croatian defenders.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-26-0.u27965	Thank you very much. Let's move on. On behalf of the HSS Club Mr. Representative Zeljko Ledinski, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-26-0.u27966	Dear Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Vice President and President of the Ministry, the respected representatives of the associations arising from the Homeland War, I am taking the opportunity to warmly welcome you on behalf of the Croatian Peasant Party Club and on my personal behalf. Allow me in the introduction to say that the Croatian Peasant Party assesses the necessary adoption of the new Law on the Rights of Croatian Lawyers from the Homeland War and members of their families. The HSS also expressed itself positively in its first reading on the adoption of a new law. Definitions about who is considered a Croatian defender, the time of participation in the defence of the Republic of Croatia, recognition of the status of Croatian defenders and members of Civil Protection, National Protection, coverage of part of the costs, health care, establishment of the lowest pensions, status of Croatian military people and others are certainly important issues for all our defenders, for all colleagues who have spent at least one small part of their lives in the defence of their country. Also, these laws on the rights of defenders have each so far been passed by the government. In the HSS, we hold that it is necessary to pass this law by consensus of all parliamentary parties and that this law applies to one longer period of time, as the Vice-President said in the introduction, rather than by changing each of our laws. Because I want to remind all of us once again that there were no Croatian defenders there would be no Croatian state either. Therefore, let us not change these laws every time we change our power. Let us establish a quality law that will be in line with the home war organizations and then apply it and if we should only try to improve it, rather than reduce it, limit those rights. Although these rights, I dare say, are very small, they are not too large and an ordinary defender has not felt any great contribution to his family from these rights. So in that part, I appeal on behalf of the HSS Club that even today, here's when we're going to vote these days, those amendments that we have to adopt in one quality way and actually get to one consensus all together. But speaking of this, in the last month we've already been here three times now we're talking about this law. We had HSP's bill first, then here's the first reading, so here's the second reading. Here I am appealing, perhaps we could sit down a little bit and agree all these views so that there might not be any controversy about it again, and especially about some issues that could have been resolved long before. Well, here's what I'd say is that the rest of me is unsettled in this law, and I think it could finally be done right now after 10 years of the end of the war, practically, that it could lead to these issues being solved once. And now we have an example in the proposal of the Veterans Committee where it is proposed to put back another date for the start of the Homeland War. In the HSS, we urge that we no longer bid on those dates, to establish once military scientific and professionally when the Homeland War lasted. We have military experts, scientists who can measure this, respecting everything that has happened in the past. And in that way, it's clearly said when it was and that we don't change it anymore, that it becomes one decision that, not to say, for centuries, but yes, it doesn't come to every change of government by auctioning that date. He also withdraws bids with the number of defenders, and that number of defenders is good to determine in this way, that even members of the National Protection, Civil Protection, also enter these other categories into it. Also, with the establishment of the Defence Register, it is necessary to establish the path of combat troops within our army and all units that were. To establish the names of their commanders, their actions. If we don't determine that we won't be able to implement this law, do we have a whole series of items that are just looking back on it? And I once again appeal to align it with the Department of Defense and that we have finally the fighting paths of our troops. Not that it happened as it used to be that two witnesses were enough to get some rights, and today it happens to us that some of them used to get the statuses determined on the basis of some of the signatures of the witnesses, and the services even processed them and proved that it wasn't, and those records of our services that we talked about these days were standing, and it would be good to apply that someone who faked the data was clearly told him, then that unit was not there and you couldn't exercise those rights. Also, in our first reading we asked for this Law to be in line with the Law on Defence, with pension laws, with the health system of the Republic of Croatia, one part of it is in line with the proposals, but it seems to me that there is still more, perhaps because of the speed of an item that is not fully aligned and I would like to at least before this Law goes into the publication in "The People's Journal" with a second look that there is no mistake understood and I think there are several. What we particularly want to stress in the HSS is that it is a good thing that we have finally introduced one pension status for our defenders who, in our opinion, for the time being, the minimum pension is not too great to see here. Clearly, it depends on Croatia's economic status, on how many funds there are, but I think at least what our defender deserves is this kind of minimum pension that needs to be realized. It is these 45% I thought from these discussions which were on the first reading boards that there would be some increases, but I believe that the justification and budget that we have brought for this year but perhaps it would be good to give that provision the possibility that it should not be changed solely by law, but to leave the possibility that this percentage should be increased in due course and increased, clearly counting on the budget of the Republic of Croatia to be far greater in future times when the economy comes into full function. I would also point out a few more items that could be improved, especially in Article 5, which I last said about making a list of diseases, also by having amended the law so we changed the committees of our doctors and everything else as well as the list of diseases, which should also be for me once to determine possible if there are additions, we know that there will be some other cases then change it and not every time there are certain changes. Last time I cited a case that I see is now not solved in the final draft of the law, it seems to me that only four of our defenders who died in the Homeland War, who were wards of homes for unsettled children, who had no family, their brothers and sisters had no rights, and I think maybe in four cases we could find some exception and allow those brothers or sisters to get the same rights as family members because they couldn't have a family that year together in the family. Furthermore, I would point out that when we talk about hiring defenders, it is clear to me that sometimes there are not enough resources to be more actively involved and to start certain activities. I know, and during my duties as mayor, that I am the most contacts, and even later here while I was in the Croatian forests with the defenders, I had, with colleagues from the front of contacts, just tied up because of the possibility of hiring them either in the woods. Let me just say that the job of a forest worker is one of the hardest jobs in the country today is probably the hardest to do in these places, in those contacts that I've seen how many of our defenders have lost their jobs and I understand this problem as one of the most important to allow our defenders to still make it possible for them through legal institutions to be able to isolate some of the funds to increase their employment. Also in these articles, which are further supplemented, I would say that we have left certain rights that we could resolve through legislation to be resolved through government regulations. I don't think it's a good idea that many of the rights that need to be passed are resolved through subsequent provisions that will be made either by regulations or by something. That he had obtained, that these rights would be exercised if possible through the adoption of the law, that no subsequent change would be left to be made through certain regulations and regulations to change the intensity of the Law. Let me say again in the final part of this and repeat what I said in the introduction, that the Croatian Peasant Party will evaluate the necessary, once again for the adoption of this Law and I would like there to be a consensus in that part to bring it all together here so as not to say that with every change of government there is a change of one such important law. I hope that happens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-26-0.u27967	Thank you very much. I shall inform you that Article 207(2) is in accordance with Article 207(2). Rules of Procedure of the expiry time to apply for a 10-minute hearing. We have one correction to the incorrect quote by Mr. Josip Djakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-26-0.u27968	Mr. Vice President, I'm going to correct the incorrect allegations of an esteemed colleague and a comrade of Ledinsky who claimed that the dates should not be changed, that they should stay like this or not, but he didn't say what they were like. Therefore, I claim that the dates should have stayed if you hadn't changed them in the last government because you couldn't endure anything that HDZ's authority established even dates, and the records of your services are... parents, widows, disableds,...a beggar stick and total misery.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-26-0.u27969	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HNS PGS Club, Mr. Representative Željko Kurt, please be my guest.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-26-0.u27970	Mr. Vice President, Madam Minister, members of the government, fellow defenders, colleagues and colleagues. The final draft law on the rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families, regardless of which I disagree with the extension of the rights of Croatian defenders and which, in the final proposal, some of the remarks made in the previous debate are not included in the Final Law on Croatian defenders and some are. We at the HNS PGS believe that the law in general goes hand in hand to Croatian defenders and their families. Our goal must be to reach a solution that will be fair and on a long period of time, in order not to change the law every year and confuse the defenders. The final proposal for the laws of Croatian defenders has addressed many of the issues that we in HNS PGS welcome. Some of them I'll count. The right of pension insurance, the right to a family pension, the lowest pension of a defender, the right to employment, in particular, I stress the right to employment, and I think that this Law has quite well resolved the right of defenders to be protected in one way by the irresponsible behaviour of employers to be protected at the ultimate convention to be returned to work if the tender is not fairly carried out. The right to shares, i.e. shares in non-payment companies, the exemption from payment of court, administrative and public records fees, the provision of funeral expenses with the award of military honors by request, or I do not know how to indicate that this last sentence, I have to read the second, referred to in Article 104, second point. The Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity shall bear the cost of transporting post-mortem remains, the cost of funerals of the deceased HRVI from the Homeland War and the deceased Croatian defender from the Homeland War in the Republic of Croatia with military honors, and now this point, if the family informs the Ministry in due time. I think this part should be deleted, that this part can be interpreted afterwards as it wants not to happen that two days before a man dies, or I don't know if it's Sunday, let's say the ministry doesn't work, simply the Ministry of Defense has to find out for that part that he's certainly in the office of defender and means the funeral of a defender. I don't think I know how to say again that this part would be given through the amendment necessary, let the government on this be apparent, i.e. Minister. Do I have to write about this amendment or simply leave out this part? Extending the validity of medical records for diseases and death due to disease and suicide from 30 days to 2 years from PTSD to 10 years. These are just some of the possible good solutions. I'm going to look further at some more of the problems we're going to solve in the next period, I hope. Differences for the payment of pensions from 1997, which is about 400 million kuna, will not be paid in 2005 but will go on for the next 3 to 4 years. This proves that we should have gone before with the new Law on Croatian defenders and only then with the budget, for the simple reason that now there is no point in warning certain illogicalities or amendments because the budget is what it is and there is nothing that can be changed. The housing issue from the existing budget will not be resolved for at least the next 10 years, which is unacceptable. I am convinced that 200 to 400 million kuna will be missing in the defense budget this year. Liberation from the participation of all defenders especially because the defence population suffers 300 to 400% more than the rest of the population of Croatian citizens. The suicide rate of Croatian defenders is particularly concerned, which is 5 times higher for the age group from 55 to 59 years. I must point out that out of 34 thousand 610 Croatian wartime wartime people from the Homeland War there are 17 thousand 690 which means that the most common diagnosis is PTSD, injury and muscle dysfunction, and a neurotic disorder of severe condition. For all of this, I must warn that the inevitability of the creation of a PTSD-ia treatment centre is, in addition to the disease of alcoholism and drug addiction, which I have already prayed on several occasions for the ministry to be made. This could be done as part of KBC Dubrava, and would not require nearly any funding. But we simply need to point out some problems that need to be solved now or in the next period. We in HNS and PGS know that the budget for Croatian defenders is maximum that the government could single out for Croatian defenders, but we also understand the defenders who expected at least that they would be given back the rights of participation, importing cars, machines and thus express their dissatisfaction. However, we believe that this law is, in its large part, good and positive for Croatian defenders and we expect that amendments to this law will be accepted and thus improve the law in full. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-26-0.u27971	Thank you very much. We have one correction to the incorrect quote Mr. Representative Josip Djakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-26-0.u27972	Dear Mr. Vice President, I will correct the incorrect allegations where colleague and associate Kurt claimed that we should first pass the law, and then the budget, and then the register, and then the audit, and then the control and then the Croatian defenders would never experience their law and never have their own safety as they will now. It's incorrect that we should have passed the law first. This is all right, it's going its way, it's going its own time as promised and certainly if, I said and I repeat that the budget rebalancings are those who smell the lack or increase certain items.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-26-0.u27973	It's okay to think of it, so... On behalf of the SDP Club, Mr. Representative Ivica Pancic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-26-0.u27974	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam Deputy Prime Minister, Associates, Representatives of Homeland War Associations. I didn't mean to speak politically, but I have to say a few sentences because of a statement that was heard on my right, that not all governments appreciated Croatian defenders and remember the protest, it was said here a few minutes ago. I remember. I remember the protest due to the co-operation of the former government with the International Court of Justice in The Hague. I was a member of this government that I say, which I claim to have protected national interests, the interests of Croatia. But let us remind ourselves of what was then and what had happened these past months, no Croatian general during the former anti-defense, anti-Croatian, treasonous government ended up in The Hague, and during this Croatian HDZ, the Sanader government of 8 Croatian generals is in The Hague. And I ask, where are the protests? Why aren't you protesting? But good. I would not like to discuss this today about the Law on the Rights of Croatian Lawyers and such discussions are not good. I'll try to keep myself from them, but I'm asking for everyone to sweep in front of their doorstep, first look in their backyard to look in someone else's. But let's get to the law. As compared to first reading, this bill did not suffer any significant changes, so I do not have another choice but to reiterate the satisfaction that HDZ has largely given up its pre-election promises, which have been said in the selected dictionary. And that took most of the solution from the current law. From that fact, different conclusions can be drawn, but my position and attitude of the Croatian Social Democrats is that this is the taking of existing solutions from the current law that has been adopted by the former government so high-ranking that it does not protect the rights of Croatian defenders is good, good for Croatia because we have brought this important issue closer to our views in part. Better, I wish we were complete, but I'll talk about it later. Only in a few words to keep it in writing to say that all the changes that followed in the system of care for Croatian defenders in 2001 were necessary, because the Croatian budget, everything that was written in the 97 law, could not be tolerated without having a financial breakdown. That's what I was talking about in my first reading when I quoted the late President Franjo Tudjman. If the former coalition government were right, it confirms in part this bill. A bill that lacks a whole series of important promises that the main opposition party then based its policy of action. For example, there is no increase in the personal disability or the return of a special allowance to all Croatian military disabled, which would increase the disabled by almost 90%. But the way we see it, there's nothing. There is no return of imports for private cars for 100 and more thousand Croatian defenders. There is no exemption from the payment of health insurance participations for 400 thousand Croatian defenders and members of their families either. Children's extras for all children of Croatian military disableds are missing. As of course there is no more important change in the housing of Croatian defenders. So instead of major changes, cosmetic procedures have followed which some are acceptable while some may not be the happiest, but they will quickly show up in practice. Be careful, I say, very soon this law will have to be changed. Let's just take one relatively small right. Right to enrol in medical institutions or accommodation in dormitories. According to information from the educational and scientific circles, skepticism is ruled out. Will that be possible? It's not good to prescribe rights like before that can't happen. A budget adopted a few days ago for the exercise of Croatian defenders' rights provides for an additional amount of about 200 million kuna compared to this year's budget. So, instead of 5 billion kuna, which was the weight of then the amendment of the opposition HDZ we have written them down, in the fall of 2001 when the current law was passed, we came to that 200 million kuna. It means a few percent of the promised. And that is once again, I point out Croatia's relativity. We'd all like it more for sure. Needs are high. But the economic situation is such that additional funds in larger amounts cannot be allocated. The use of insurance funds in the Croatian budget should be spent on purpose, which is unfortunately, since it is visible from the work of the current Ministry is not always the case. Take, for example, competitions for famous computers, car purchases for 100% disabled people and the like. If there is a need, I can say more about it later. But to stay strictly on this bill. In my first reading on behalf of the SDP Club, I expressed my willingness to accept this legislative proposal by consensus. We've pointed out some solutions in a proposal that we don't think are good. They do not benefit true Croatian defenders and victims. However, as it is evident in this final proposal of the Law of these well-intentioned suggestions are not available. They weren't accepted. The promoter did not show any willingness to accept it. So the appeal for consensus given by the government's representative can't say it's not sincere. The SDP is ready for a consensus on this Act, but the consensus also requires the readiness of the other side of the applicant, i.e. Government. And once again, I point out that the government has given up all its strong promises, but in this law it has written down new promises that future generations will have to pay which is absolutely unacceptable and dangerous. So we're also asking for an accurate calculation of the right of all pension insurance rights. Let me remind you which way our other proposals went. Towards the introduction of control mechanisms to prevent the legalisation of existing illegalities and the creation of new ones. We remember the case "Almomani", persons with a Croatian passport from an Arab country who organised a chain of 10 persons employed in institutions where they were able to please persons who tried criminally, and in so doing were the rights of the Croatian Defence Act. Such persons who, in addition to the falsified documentation, exercised the right to disabled persons, larger pensions with never given rank and the like, were according to the competent authorities' findings of more than two hundred, meaning not two or three, but 200 or almost 300. And it's sad that this government doesn't care, the whole case is at the municipal court in Zagreb. In fact, this bill allows even them to continue to enjoy Croatian defenders' rights undeservedly. But this government believes that translation to determine possible irregularities is not necessary, so we changed the law five months ago in that part. The government also believes it is perfectly normal that the right to a disability pension should also be given to persons who do not have the status of a Croatian military disabled. I know that it is the interest of some people in the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute to pass such a proposal, because they have just retired some 5 to 6 thousand people who do not have the status of a Croatian military disabled, and have exercised the right to a disability pension. That's how we legalize illegality and immorality. And we're giving new opportunities for new irregularities. If we give the possibility to various committees or experts at the Peace Fund that they determine disability and link it to the damage in the Homeland War, what we prevented in 2002 will return. I ask, who's in the interest? To those who want good Croatia, who want to do their job fairly and professionally and thus build Croatia as a legal state, it is certainly not. But to those who have learned corruption, who are corrupt, who make decisions without quorum and who want to make money on other people's accidents is. They're not up to the law and honesty. Therefore, we ask that the right to a disability pension be tied to the status of a Croatian military invalid who is only established by the Ministry, not a hundred other bodies or individuals. And thirdly, the insistence on forming district units by the government as visible in the bill of law is expensive, regardless of whether a hundred people will be employed as initially claimed or 20 as said in the first reading, due to the negative reactions of the public you see this figure first from 100 to 20. Although it thus shows plastically that this government is unable to manage the ministry only with 120 employees at the end of 2003, it must employ new employees. However, I am not personally happy that the heirs are not more successful than the previous government, as Croatian taxpayers will additionally cost several million kunas needlessly. And that is also against the government's declared pledge to cut the administration, although this would not be the first unfulfilled promise of the government. And to conclude, the SDP Club will propose amendments on the line. What we consider to be crucial is what will in some ways prevent the illegality and spread of corruption in this system of care for Croatian defenders. And according to this, the government depends on whether we come to this Law by consensus or if SDP representatives will be forced to vote differently with the aim of protecting true Croatian defenders and victims and preserving the true values of the Homeland War. Let's show it in part, not just in words. We want to achieve a general agreement on this law. We from the SDP are ready. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-26-0.u27975	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative, unfortunately, you've produced 13 corrections of incorrect allegations, so I wouldn't exactly say it's in line with the announcement of consensus, but what's there. 13 Correction of incorrect allegations. The first is Krunoslav Markovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-26-0.u27976	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, here's the first incorrect and very clear quote, my government worked in the interest of the Croatian state. So I can start over. First, by proving unnecessary interference in the war in Bosnia and Herzegovina, which was only for the sake of revenge, Croatia went towards the previous government and crawling in front of European officials was avenged by Croatian defenders. The destruction of the Croatian state's reiting in international associations of catastrophic diplomacy. Then, dishonesty, beware, we impertinently brought down on the scales of corruption, the data was from two years ago. We've also heard about the Piran Bay. Whether it is the interest of Croatia, whether it is a criminal translation or as you have already called the proceedings against the sick defenders, it is probably yours.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-26-0.u27977	Thank you. I'm asking the MPs if they can drop the titles because they're going to cut back on that time. Well, here's a word, Mr. Frano Matušić's correction, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-26-0.u27978	Mr. Vice President, although it is in vain to correct Mr. Pancic but for the sake of the Croatian public it is necessary to say what is true. Therefore, it is an incorrect assumption that the Croatian government has given up its pre-election promises, that HDZ has given up its pre-election promises because this Law that is before us today is also proof that the Croatian government has remained on its promises and that... through this law. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] One of the promises to restore dignity to Croatian defenders and it returns precisely through this Law which is here before us and which supports associations from the Homeland War. And about your success we have all witnessed in the past, what your success in communicating with the defenders and your actions that you have led towards this population. Enough has been said by the defenders in the election on your success.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-26-0.u27979	Thank you. Mr Emil Tomljanović.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-26-0.u27980	It is an incorrect allegation of a distinguished colleague who said that the Croatian Democratic Union has given up all its pre-election promises in the context of the adoption of this law. It is simply not true, this Law represents in this version actually a taste of pre-election promises to the defense population and I am particularly pleased by the fact that exactly in terms of partnership with the associations of the Homeland War and the final text of this Law. And the second correction to the incorrect quote is next. Unfortunately, a colleague said this, it is unfortunate that this government does not worry about illegality in the exercise of defence rights and translation has characterized legalisation, illegality and immorality, it is incorrect, this government is very concerned by all the illegal behaviours that occur in this segment. And a respected colleague himself said that there were litigation and litigation in all those situations where irregularities were observed.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-26-0.u27981	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative, Mrs. Representative, Bozica Šolić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-26-0.u27982	Thank you very much. I am correcting the incorrect allegations of a representative of Pancic who said this law was prescribed by the law of the former government. Mr. Pancic, that's absolutely not true. This Law corrects many injustices and introduces many of the rights that belong to them and one of the many examples of shagging defenders while you were the minister is present here Mr. Beštek. That's a fact for you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-26-0.u27983	Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect quote Mr. Representative Niko Rebić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-26-0.u27984	Dear counterpart Pancic says that this Law has not seen significant changes compared to the 2001 Law. It is not true that he did not experience important changes, everything that you have abolished, all the rights that the defenders had from the 1996 Law and what is much worse, you have trampled the dignity and pride of the defenders in 2001, and this is all and much more reciprocating this government with this Law.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-26-0.u27985	Zvonimir Puljic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-26-0.u27986	It is wrong to quote Mr Pancic when he explains his personal actions and actions against defenders who were tortured, arrogant and offensive by co-operation with The Hague court. Because the police haven't searched the apartment of a certain General Bobetka for co-operation with the Hague court. You did not generally declare defenders to the combatants for privileges or false disableds as tortured, arrogant and offensive explaining by working with the Hague court. Because the police haven't searched the apartment of a certain General Bobetka for co-operation with the Hague court. You did not generally declare defenders for privileges or for fake disabled persons as Noko Marinović and here present Dark Bestek for co-operation with The Hague court. It's because you looked at them as political opponents. At that time, I hope you don't see it that way today and I notice the signs of evolution in your opinion.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-26-0.u27987	Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-26-0.u27988	Mr. President, it is an incorrect assumption that this Law is identical to the Law of Collegiate Authority headed by the SDP and that only cosmetic procedures have been made for certain changes. This is totally incorrect because in the proposal, the first draft of Law 30 new moments and 30 new articles, while in this final proposal, even so much if you have looked at the explanation behind each article in which all standards have been amended, updated, harmonised. If you did not charge Croatia with external debt and did not charge this budget for 7 billion kuna, this right could certainly be greater.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-26-0.u27989	Katarina Fuchek.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-26-0.u27990	It is not true that the Law is based on the taking of existing solutions and that only cosmetic procedures have been made on it. With a number of new institutes introduced to improve the quality of life of Croatian defenders and members of their families, which was spoken of by Ms. Minister, the Law is realistic, human, concrete and enforceable and, above all, because Mrs. Minister had patience and received the trust of Croatian defenders, so she saw your personal jealousy as your position as SDP.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-26-0.u27991	Maria Byte.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-26-0.u27992	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Often, by repeating false allegations, Mr Pancic wants to create a false impression. That's why I'm correcting that HDZ has given up pre-election promises. Neither the HDZ nor the Croatian government has given up pre-election promises and will fulfil everything promised in the interest of Croatian citizens in its term of office. And the proposed law is precisely to the purpose of what was promised to Croatian defenders and victims of the Homeland War. As already said, dignity has been restored, Croatian defenders are no longer false and are not privileged, the rights of all defenders, not only the disabled and the dead, 30 items have improved the law and also the Croatian Government with the aim of reducing the number of unemployed persons associated with Croatian defenders has and runs a program of professional training and employment of Croatian defenders and the target group consists of unemployed Croatian defenders, children of the dead, imprisoned and missing Croatian defenders regardless of gender and age. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-26-0.u27993	Vladimir Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-26-0.u27994	Mr. Pancic said the establishment of the Ministry of Defence of the Family in County is expensive. On the contrary, I think it is a minimum that we can do for Croatian defenders so that, specifically in my county, defenders from Karlovac, Slunj, Cetingrad, Ogulina, Duge Rese do not have to deal with their status issues in Zagreb but can handle it in their places. Every right and any expense, but it is a minimum that we can make for Croatian defenders.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-26-0.u27995	Mr. President, Mr. Pancic says he is for everything, and then he does everything for nothing. I'm going to make it right somehow, but Mr. Pancic is neither correct nor correctable. Namely, just like my colleague Jelkovac was correcting. Mr. Pancic said it would cost a lot of construction in the area units. In fact, they're not going to do anything because there's already some defense departments at the state administration offices in the county. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-26-0.u27996	Vice President Darko Milinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-26-0.u27997	Dear Mr. Pancic said we've taken over your law in a large proportion. All the kindness that has not, of course, been destroyed, all the goodness, under the quotes of your law is seen in the condition that we found when we took over the power of the guards standing there with impenetrable glass, impenetrable doors because you contacted Mr Pancic in such a way with the Croatian defenders. The first day the HDZ took power was created the conditions to remove both security guards and impenetrable glass and the impenetrable door the way you did.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-26-0.u27998	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. A colleague, Pancic, said the article 53 was not feasible. That's not true, sir, colleague Pancic. Article 53 reads: “The advantage in enrolment, education, educational institutions have all the students who meet the conditions to cross a similar or classified threshold and to satisfy the test of abilities, gifts in secondary schools and high schools where the entrance exam is conducted, and this article has also been brought to life this year. As a parliamentary representative, you have the right to request statistics from all universities in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-26-0.u27999	Vice President, Minister Jadranka Kosor, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-26-0.u28000	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, representatives of the association. Here's a few words after the presentation of the SDP representative for telling the truth on behalf of the Croatian government and that I would, of course, reject certain allegations that are totally unacceptable because they are simply not true. So, the first allegation that this government has taken over the law from 2001 to 2001 was completely incorrect for several reasons. I will remind you, Mr. Representative, that this very government, at the beginning of its term of office, has, among its first moves, referred to the parliamentary procedure to amend the existing law of 2001, and the existing law that is still in force, I hope very briefly, because by 1.1.2005, it changed once again. Among other things, we have abolished all the happiness of these amendments to the existing law, so-called. The Institute of Translation. You have also called on this institute in some way, and I say: Yes, we are proud to have abolished in time as soon as we got the opportunity to do so and most in parliament, this institute of translation because it ultimately meant the translation of Croatian defenders thirsty across the water. And that was the real point of that institute. As for the SDP Club quote that in this law that we are proposing today, which is being debated, that we have proposed only cosmetic changes, I will remind you again, Mr. Representative and all the ladies and all, all the gentlemen in the SDP, which are among others as Mr. Pancic says cosmetic changes. Among other things, it is the introduction of the release of participation for Croatian defenders with a body damage of at least 30%. This is the introduction of this institute of the lowest or protected pension. Does the cosmetic change mean to you the fact that from 1.1 next year, Croatian defenders who, by general regulation, meet the conditions for retirement will have guaranteed the lowest pension of 1773 kuna, which is now 45% of the average salary that can of course be increased? Does this mean a cosmetic change for you because I'm sure you know very well that there are many of those Croatian defenders who unfortunately find it difficult to find a job or cannot find it at all and who live literally on the edge of existence. The Croatian defenders we face daily in our ministry who seek one-time assistance. I said last time, I will repeat now: requests for one-time assistance means requests to help Croatian defenders who are on difficult social conditions simply survive from last year to this year by 1260%. 1260%, that means so much is those who come to the Ministry's door asking to be helped. We meet people who live at 500, 600 kuna, below 1,000 kuna. To all of them, this law guarantees this lowest pension when they reach the age of life means 65 for men and 60 for women. Are these ladies and gentlemen cosmetic changes? I absolutely reject such a qualification on cosmetic changes in this law because it is a fundamental turn of the Law on the rights of Croatian defenders towards Croatian defenders. So indeed those who deserve it. I do not accept that cosmetic changes are, for example, the fact that the prisoners in the enemy camp are returned to the right of 1996 to have the status of a Croatian military invalid with at least a tenth group. It means 20% permanent damage to the body. I also do not accept that the cosmetic change that we are predicting in this law is that the pension of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War is achieved according to the general regulation is increased by 10 and 30%, respectively, depending on the time spent by the Croatian defender in the Homeland War. This certainly cannot be a cosmetic change and that the units of the local administration are given this bill the possibility of living care. As well as introducing customs and tax reliefs for the import of a private car to Croatian military disabled with damaged and upper extremities or blind. As I think you will agree, there can be no cosmetic change that the basis for establishing the right to the family disability of members of the family of the mortally injured Croatian defender from the Homeland War who died or was killed is increasing from a valid 40 to 50%, and that the family disability is increasing from 15% to 25%. As well as that the children of the dead Croatian defenders are given the opportunity to use extras at the maximum possible amount. As well as that, that children of the dead Croatian defenders of employment, and after completing their education, have the right to a family pension for another year, which is in accordance with the Family Law. And of course there can be no cosmetic change in what we have observed after I abolished the MMPI2 test that abused Croatian defenders who were suffering from post-traumatic stress disorder. It can't be a cosmetic change that we're predicting a 10-year-old deadline for those defenders who got PTSD. And so on and so forth. So I refuse on behalf of the Croatian Government to qualify for cosmetic changes, it is about fundamental changes that are about restoring dignity to Croatian defenders. This is a process that cannot be done overnight in either year of the term of office, neither the Croatian Parliament nor the Croatian Government. But it can be true if we all think the same thing, which is that Croatian defenders deserve all our love and respect, because they are the most responsible for a free independent democratic independent Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-26-0.u28001	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect alleged representative Ivica Pančić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-26-0.u28002	I have to say, I'm surprised, why this anxiety with the government and the HDZ club. Well, I wasn't trying to break you guys up. I just commended you for giving up your 97-year law. And that you prescribed most of the 2001 law. And so it's not true when the Vice President says it's not about cosmetic changes. The weight of your amendments in 2001 was about 5 billion kuna. Take the computer and calculate. In this law, you gave away 200 million kunas. It means 4%. I never said you gave up 100% of your pre-election promises, you gave up at 96%. As for the security guard and the door. And the guards are still sitting, Mr. Milinovic, and the glass doors are still there. But I guess you weren't at the ministry.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-26-0.u28003	Please, peace. Honorable representative Anton Perusko.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-26-0.u28004	Thank you, Mr. President. I am correcting the incorrect allegations by the Deputy Prime Minister and the Defence Minister that she claimed that the translation institute was in fact the Institute of Translation of Croatian water-suffering defenders. It's simply incorrect. Croatian defenders cannot be translated thirsty across the water, with all due respect to true Croatian defenders, the translation institute aimed at making a distinction between false and real defenders. To separate those who have been killed on mine roads from those who have suffered the defense of the Homeland. And this institute, with some improvements, simplifications, all true defenders welcome. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-26-0.u28005	The publication of an incorrect quote by the respected protégé Frana Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-26-0.u28006	I thank Mr. President, Madam Deputy Prime Minister has said, speaking to Mr. Pancic that he certainly knows how many defenders will be using this guaranteed pension. After his ministry, we can say completely that he doesn't know.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-26-0.u28007	Mr. Matušić, I have previously warned you of this correction to the nerving quote, and I have given you a sign that you will abuse it. And you abused him. You have not corrected the unethical quote, and for the sake of conscious and obvious abuse, I give you a warning. I'm interrupting the session, continuing at 15.00 hours. The first is the respected vice-president on behalf of the HSLSA Club, DCA Djurdja Adlesic. ... DC respected House Vice-President Djurdja Adlesic. [[Home not recorded]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-26-0.u28009	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Homeland War Association, Madam Vice President of the Government. First of all, I must express my satisfaction that we have not waited for a long period between the first two readings, which still gives us hope that we will pass a law that will be possible from the beginning of next year. I also thank you for the number of objections and suggestions I made in the last debate on behalf of the HSLS Club and the DC you accepted. The most important thing is that the Law be enforceable, of course just and that both defenders and members of their families can finally know what to expect from this Law. I believe it's more important to say more honestly what the Law cannot accomplish than to make false promises. I support a change in the definition of the Homeland War volunteers. First of all, because this applies to persons who were not military bonds, women, underage persons, those who were declared incapable of military service, who participated for at least 30 days in defence of the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia. However, when it comes to the definition of volunteers from the Homeland War and this term of 100 days, I really support the opinion of colleagues and colleagues I had had in the morning debate, especially the Committee on War Veterans, where this 100-day deadline is indeed inappropriate, because many who spent only a few days on the battlefield died and wounded and became disabled. If a number of days must be determined, then I suggest that it be, excuse me, a 30-day deadline. And if there's such an amendment, it's totally acceptable to us. I must also warn of Article 2 and of something that appears in other legal texts. It's an indication of concepts that are not female. I really need to warn you that women were defenders and that this is the minimum we could give them, a confession. I will, for the sake of time and concentration of colleagues and fellow MPs and MPs, indeed go only by articles, draw attention only to some who have been changed by me for the better and one who has not been changed and where we will go with the amendment. It is good that it was changed in 46th that amount of 700 ERU per square, because it was completely unrealistic and limited the possibility that defenders would decide on housing by raising a housing loan to buy an apartment or house, because it was not really a price that could be expected especially in larger cities. However, once the change has already taken place and a part of this remark or proposal has been accepted, then it would be good not to go to the Government of the Republic of Croatia's regulation, but rather to determine the market price of a square meter apartment and I think that we could put it into the law and thus fully clarify how many people will at first receive for help when they raise their own housing loan or buy an apartment or house. There is significant progress, we have warned in the previous reading, I really thank you for accepting it, because we have witnessed frequent situations that defenders cannot go to the building, they cannot go to their apartments, and that is the adjustment of access to apartments and wheelchairs, for disabled people who are not capable of moving without wheelchairs or other orthopedic aids, and especially the blind Croatian military disabled. For six months, we could, of course, suggest shorter, but he would be unrealistic anyway, so he's holding on perfectly acceptable to me for six months. The more real it seems to me, the more real it is, which would mean that this article will be implemented. Now, Article 11 is an article that we are not satisfied with and for which we have attached the amendment. I think that there have already been many others who have made comments, and I am sure that with the support, the organizations of defenders and members of their families will respond to that remark. Namely, it is the right to cover the costs of health care, i.e. participation, which is borne by members of the family of the dead defenders of the Homeland War, members of the family of prisoners and missing Croatian defenders, defenders with damage to the body of at least 30%. We have heard the reason why this is and where progress is seen, but I would support, on behalf of the HSLS and DC Club, conclusions from the HVIDR Convention in Zadar where they suggest that exemption from the payment of these services, so the cost of health care is released by all, regardless of the degree of damage, because if we stay at 30%, I again warn of the argument that I have already made, which is that, in fact, without that kind of protection, they are suffering from PTSD where the disease is mostly these 20%. So we've heard the arguments, but we don't see that they can't be solved, if we have to change some other laws, if we have the will. We've changed the Constitution several times, so we can change the laws, especially sublaws. We therefore submit an amendment to the amendment to Article 11. We believe that no special funding is needed and we believe that this proposal is likely to be voted by all MPs of this House for the benefit of the defenders, above all by post-traumatic stress. Speaking of conclusions from the Zadar HVIDR Convention, it would like to support on behalf of our Club another one of the proposals or two that I hold particularly significant, which are already somehow spoken in gloves here, because they are probably not all pleasant, which is to finally establish the defence register. They suggest that it be the date of 1.1.2005, so from the moment this law should apply. So we finally have a defense register. That is, therefore, the proposal for a convention of HVIDRs that we support. It is also the obligation of the MORH to hire after a professional rehabilitation. The rights of members of the HVO are also mentioned which can be regulated by laws, but also by interstate agreements. I believe there are no ideal laws, there are improvements here. The significant improvement is precisely this Article 11. So I ask you to reconsider the amendment that we draw and the conclusions of the HVIDR Convention. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-26-0.u28010	Thank you. We're going to an individual debate. Dear Representative Krešimir Ćosic. He's retreating, that he's already spoken for the club. Dear representative, Ruža Lelic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-26-0.u28011	Thank you, Mr. President, Madam Minister, with fellow Members, distinguished ladies and gentlemen of the association came from the Homeland War, colleagues and colleagues. Here is a new and final bill on the rights of Croatian defenders. In our first reading, we accepted it with a consensus that was necessary and good. I wish we could agree on such important issues. We see that the comments and proposals of the Committee on War Veterans and the Committee on Legislatives, as well as of certain respected astundants, have been accepted. And the very creation of the bill included representatives of associations from the Homeland War, so I think it's a good way to pass the bill. Surely all wishes and needs could not have been incorporated, but what matters is that the Law is real, enforceable, and just. And there won't be any need to change it anytime soon. And this law, I think, satisfies all that. It is also pointed out here in the debate that this bill creates obligations which, I think, will be owed by the next generation, which is what one respected representative said, which is unacceptable. Well, I don't see the possibilities for some rights to improve without borrowing the next generation. Let's just say, World War II ended 60 years ago, so we still have 68,203 pensioners from NOB, and Croatian defenders about 32,000. It is also the opinion that the government is not interested in illegality when it comes to the way some rights are acquired. I can't agree with that. The government, as well as each of us, is very interested in any abuse, including in this area, but we believe that these possible abuses should be addressed by the application of other legal institutes that apply to other citizens, not to the translation and continuous translation institute. Here, it's still seen as a foothold of corruption. We could see the same from some of the exhibitions. It is said of true defenders, which then suggests that more or at least a considerable number of false ones, which are those views that actually destroyed the dignity of Croatian defenders. But to go back to the law itself. The bill provides for rights, and a procedure for recognition of rights, with the aim of achieving those rights in a simple and faster way and I think it is very important, because so far some Croatian defenders have been very difficult to achieve because of a complicated procedure. From this broad and complex law, I will look at only some articles. I think that the law has resolved a series of issues raised and unresolved by now such as the question of volunteers, members of the POS, so it is now defined in Article 2 that Croatian defenders from the Homeland War are except members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia and volunteers from the Homeland War. We see that this condition has dropped from 100 days to at least 30 days unless it was a military official by January 15, 92, and I think it's also a significant shift. Article 2 defines the concept of participation where it was established on 5 August 90th until 30 June 96, there were proposals to re-establish the law, to bring this term in line and I think it is already in line that it should not be amended further. As a matter of fact, I also consider Article 3, which instead of the concept of a dead defender from the Homeland War, introduces the concept of a deadly victim. The first reading highlights some thinking that this is not fair to the dead defenders and that some associations disagree. I don't think there's any justification here because here we have the meaning of being killed during imprisonment in an enemy camp, died of a wound or injury sustained in the defense which I think is as important, and this attitude 4 died of disease, worsening of disease or the occurrence of disease in defense of the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia where the deadline for application was extended until 31 December 97. And then there's the death-stricken person that's also being extended to members of the medical staff, war reporters, members of the fire departments, and others, and we see that in this supplement in the second reading that there are still categories of deaths in merchant ships. I think it's good and justifiable, because I remember our doctors and nurses and drivers who, under the rain of a grenade, went and took care of the wounded in no time. Then Article 11 here is pointed out on several occasions as important and it is really important that it is freed from participation by all defenders with physical impairment up to 30%. The truth is that earlier, all of us who had the statute of defenders were freed from participation, but maybe this is still our reality for now. This release of participation is important for everyone in particular for this population. And what I find particularly important is that it is the right to an age pension where so far the Croatian defender would be entitled to an age pension under the Pension Insurance Act then his status as a defender had no impact on the level of retirement while it means changing where the pension is increasing from 10% to 30% depending on the time of participation and I think it was a necessary change because so far it means she was led, there was a Serbs on the wounded and the sick while those who participated, and they were fortunate to remain unhurt or have not been ill until now had no adequate compensation for that. Then what is important and what I would point out is that it is the right to a disability pension in Article 15 where, with the existing institute, it means disability pensions due to general incompetence, we now have the introduction of disability pensions for reasons of professional incompetence, injury, captivity or illness, which I also consider to be significant progress and improvement. In Article 31, the institute is the lowest pension. I think that here all the things that are proposed and very important in this law I think that we are going over this easily, but these really are very important shifts and that the institute of the lowest pensions that would have been realized means these Croatian defenders from 65 years of age men, and 60 years of women who have not met the conditions of pension insurance would now receive 45% of the average net salary of all employees in the Republic of Croatia in the previous year, so this year would be 1,073,00 kuna and here is the minister pointed out that such users in the following year would be 10 thousand who will leave those rights. I think for all those defenders that it's really going to be an extraordinary help. Employment is very important. The question must be highlighted, and here it is pointed out that we have six measures for the employment of people with disabilities, that about a thousand and 100 of them have taken those measures and used them, that we have a pezalification of about 520, 527, to establish cooperatives and that is what really needs to be encouraged and I mean to point out these rights. Because often those who could use those rights because of ignorance don't use them. Then it's also very important to provide housing, and I see that the same important shift has been achieved from those 13,000 waiting to be taken care of, that now this 30% reduction of the apartment and more favourable loans will contribute to this very important issue. I also support the proposal not to obsess over the death of a Croatian defender, who committed suicide as a result of a mental illness under the current law that period was five years and it is good that the opinion of the profession was respected and that deadline from a post-traumatic stress disorder from two years of age extended to 10 years, we see unfortunately that here are 1,663 defenders that they committed suicide. And let me get this straight. I support the adoption of the proposed law, I think it is fair and enforceable, that it has corrected many injustices so far and has resolved many unresolved issues, that it is in line with the economic power of the country and I do not expect it to be a law that will not require any immediate changes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-26-0.u28012	Thank you very much. It's Jure Bitunj's representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-26-0.u28013	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Madam Minister, colleagues and colleagues. I'd like to begin by congratulating the minister and her associates as well as the entire government on this bill. I believe that the debate in the first reading has shown in some way the wish of all MPs of all parliamentary parties to reach a political consensus in the adoption of the Law on the Rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and their families. I would like to point out that many defenders complained that after only a decade after the war, society had forgotten its defenders. Perhaps through the crimes of individuals that we had a situation to sort of generalise all defenders and the relationship of the media and the creation of sensations was often present in means of public communication. The obligation of society, the obligation of the Croatian Parliament, is the obligation of political parties to create public awareness that defenders are a social group from which individuals should be recruited for the conduct of the most responsible functions, the most responsible responsibilities in Croatian society, of course, provided they meet all other conditions. Croatian defenders and their associations must be the moral verticals of a society whose voice is respected, whose voice is respected. But it is also their obligation to choose people with war and life biography, impeccable life biography and war biography in key places of their associations and in this way should be in the right sense, and when it comes to me personally, and when it comes to HDZ, I believe that they are moral verticals and pillars of this society. We are also witnessing that there have been persistent abuses of defenders for daily political purposes because the Homeland War and the creation of the Croatian state are among the greatest achievements in the history of the Croatian people and it is our obligation, it is the obligation of all political parties to discuss and pass this Act by Croatian defenders and associations from the Homeland War to take that place in the Croatian society that belongs to them. This Law, which we are discussing in front of us and on which we hope will be justly, so it is well-conceived and lastingly ensuring the rights of the defender that it does not depend on changing power, that it is not subject to political change in the Croatian Parliament, in Croatian society and that it does not matter who is in power, whether it is the right center, whether it is the left center or whether it is some other political options. In this way, their status and Croatian defenders, in the right sense, become what they are, a pillar of Croatian society, is permanently resolved. I would also say that we have already debated here in the Croatian Parliament and we have passed the Law on Memorial Documentation Centre and in this direction I see that by adopting this Law we have stood up for the non-transparent values of the Homeland War and we are obliged as a legislative body to affirm the Homeland War through the educational system of the Republic of Croatia, through the obligation to explore the importance of preserving the tradition of achievement, the liberation war that Croatia has placed in order of sovereign, independent and sovereign states of Europe and the world. I'm in favor of this law for a number of reasons, and I'm going to name three. First of all, the Law is sustainable and enforceable, it is adapted to our economic economic opportunities and I believe that by accepting this Act no other group, no layer of Croatian society will in any way be put into a situation to deprive them of their rights, therefore, it is sustainable and in the short term and I believe in looking at them in the long term. The second reason is that by adopting this Act we permanently resolve the status of Croatian defenders and it will certainly no longer be subject to political trade, bickering, etc., which we have witnessed in the past 4 years. And I hope, by adopting this law, that we will demonstrate the political will of all parliamentary parties and thus achieve a consensus that all citizens expect from us regardless of political commitment, regardless of which political option they belong and which party they vote on. Once again, I congratulate the Minister, your team of ministers, and the entire government on this proposal, and I am glad that the Homeland War Associations co-created this Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-26-0.u28014	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Now it's Mr. Zivko Nenadić's turn for you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-26-0.u28015	Mr. Vice-President, Madam Vice-President of the Croatian Government, colleagues and colleagues, distinguished representatives of the association. Because the final bill is I'll really talk about concrete things. I have one big remark and a few small ones. My big remark is that my colleague Mr. Pancic persistently and constantly says that this is his law, and I'm reading one and the other and I see and notice that you've written it so badly that this old law can't even recognize it. And now a few minor remarks. I don't know if you or I might be in the form of an amendment if you think it's necessary, if you don't thank God. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. It is said "A business space on which a lease is based under the terms of this article cannot be leased". It often happens to turn it into some kind of business technical cooperation with another person, legal or physical, and in that way it happens, then the defender doesn't follow how it works anymore, so he doesn't meet his obligations, and then comes to the court, the one who's really the renter of the defender, not the one who's really using it. So it seems to me that it might be good to consider adding, says, a business space on which the lease is based on the terms of this article cannot be leased, added, nor the business space concerned and the activity carried out in it can be subject to business-technical cooperation with other legal or physical persons. This is a little bit to think about. Furthermore, Article 102, where it is said that the parent of the widow or widow of the deadly Croatian defender of the Homeland War and of the Homeland War, depending on the established degree of damage to the organism, has the advantage of accommodation in retirement homes. It seems to me, perhaps, that this should be applied in general, whether this applies under the same conditions as during employment, is enough for someone to apply and have an advantage at once, or still respect certain points of the House for Retired People, so that there are no misunderstandings there afterwards. That and Article 104(2) says, the Ministry of Family and Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity bear the cost of transporting postmortem remains and the cost of the funeral of the dead HRVI from the Homeland War and the late Croatian defender from the Homeland War. I think this is the death of the Homeland War HRVI because it is already covered by this late Croatian defender from the Homeland War, as if it were, I don't think there's much need, that it's already covered. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-26-0.u28016	Thank you very much. We have one replica, Mr. Representative Ivica Pancic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-26-0.u28017	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I don't like polemics, but I think that after this, you may be drawn closer to something true, the truth that will benefit both Croatian defenders and all citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Just to remind you that HDZ before the election and several years before that said that in the first session of the Parliament, when it came to power, it would pass a new Law on the rights of Croatian defenders, which would be the oldest law of 97. I don't know what calendar you're counting on the time, but no matter how much you count it, the law was supposed to be passed in January, now it's November. It's been 10 months, and you didn't prescribe that law from 97. If you had prescribed it, it would have cost about four, five billion kuna more than your October 2001 amendment, so I'm not saying anything else, I'm just counting. These are basic mathematical operations. You've made a promise, but of the 5 billion you promised, you've made 200 million, so 96% of your promises have fallen into the water, but I understand you, the economic situation is difficult, and in this situation in Croatia we should try to build... Thank you. [[The speaker's off, you can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-26-0.u28018	Thank you very much. Reply to the replica Mr. Zivko Nenadić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-26-0.u28019	Here, Mr. Vice President, he made two of his claims both incorrect. The first is that we said that in the first session of the Parliament we would change the law, of course it wasn't even theoretically possible... Nor is it true, because the constitution and the rest. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] And we also didn't say that we would rewrite and pass the same law as it was from 96, but that we would pass a new law, which is what we do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-26-0.u28020	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative Josip Djakić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-26-0.u28021	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam Vice-President of the Croatian Government and our minister, Mr. Secretary and Assistant. Gentlemen, speaking about this final proposal of the Law on the Rights of Croatian Defences from the Homeland War, it is necessary to suspend all politics and the collection of all political points that are being debated today in front of clubs or individual and correcting incorrect allegations can be noticed that everyone is in a position to win a population of Croatian defenders for day-to-day political activities or for their points. Namely, all the things called insults, defilements, callings, all the things called the abolition of rights, you can correct gentlemen to apologize to the Croatian defenders whom you have insulted so many times, which you have so many times brought to the edge of the suicide or even to the suicide itself, which you have left without a swear of income, only once with a public apology of the former coalition authority can win over the population of Croatian defenders to believe them. In this law and the final bill of law, with these nomoths, things that need to be corrected for sure, because no one is ideal, they are really who they are. In today's corrections, I have mentioned many times that this law would look what Mr Pancic and his suite certainly do not want to accept that the actual facts and facts that the Croatian state and its budget have led to disaster. ... You tragically tasked the Croatian state with probably completely destroying it so that we could join the former Yugoslavia again, because it was your goal of preoccupation, you just loved it, you didn't fight for it, you didn't even create it. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-26-0.u28022	Mr. Representative, get back on the subject and talk about defenders with the aim of reaching consensus, not to potentiate the differences, come on, please, here.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-26-0.u28023	Thank you very much, Mr. President, I will focus really on the concrete and final proposal of the Law on the Rights of Croatian Lawyers, but I had to answer the political statements of the individuals who used this Assembly speaker to collect their points. The law in this final reading with three amendments to the Committee on War Veterans, with two amendments to the HDZ Club and by which possibly the Government of the Republic of Croatia in these amendments is possible and feasible and is a guarantee if, indeed, without these political disagreements, we vote together, it is likely to contribute to the future of Croatian defenders in it and through it being ensured that we continue to make sure that the economic progress of the Republic of Croatia enables further increases in the rights of Croatian defenders, but today it can no longer be achieved from what is prescribed and the sums provided in the budget. We welcome the adoption of this law and I personally as a representative of HVIDRE when it was discussed at the convention on those HVIDRE requirements that I have tried to explain to my colleagues, to the disabled and I told my friends what our aspirations are and what we can look for, which we can certainly do and we are pleased that the population of all Croatian people with disabilities will have the release from participation as we have so far. We are pleased that they have returned, that they have the right to import cars from the first to four populations of the largest victims. We are pleased that the right to the accommodation of retirement homes is specified by this Act. We can also say that we are satisfied with the overall defence population in this Law and is represented according to the possibilities, and dignity is restored by the very relationship of the Ministry, Government and people who respect Croatian defenders. It was also returned to these provisions of the Law that every Croatian defender was entitled to a decent burial, not that the last dispatch he experienced in his country for which he fought, for which life had been sent without anything and everyone had forgotten him. That's what's called one of the greatest parts of dignity in that last act of this earthly life. We welcome all the efforts that have been made by all those who have constructively considered installing their work, effort, and thinking in relation to these legal provisions and measures. And that I don't spend any more time, because it's all been said through all these discussions that have been conducted both in the first and second readings on committees and clubs. I hope that the population of Croatian defenders can sleep peacefully after 1.1. In 2005, because their rights are secured in this Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-26-0.u28024	Thank you very much. We have one replica, Mr. Representative Ivica Pancic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-26-0.u28025	Mr. Chairman, you've reacted in an adequate way, so you don't want me to bring oil to the fire, although there's a lot to be said, here I am giving up this replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-26-0.u28026	Thank you very much. Let's move on. Mr. Representative Nikola Sopčić, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-26-0.u28027	Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam Vice-President of the Croatian Government, colleagues and fellow MPs. I support this Final Proposal for the Law on the Rights of Croatian Defences from the Homeland War and members of their families. I would especially like to welcome the process of making this proposal, and its alignment and agreement with those most concerned, these are Croatian defenders and associations that came from the Homeland War, so I am taking the opportunity to welcome them. Madam Vice President, I congratulate you for not regretting neither the time nor the effort to prepare this law. With this process, you have contributed to all these unpleasant events related to the status of Croatian defenders, where people who created and defended our country have called themselves all names, from fighters for privileges, fake disabled people and similar offensive names. I am convinced that it is time for the people who have defended our country and had to break through the doors of certain institutions for months and years, so that they can achieve their right behind us. The people who defended this country did not go to war to gain privileges, because they did not know if they would bring a living head, but I agree they had an interest, and their only interest was to defend their country. I come from an area that was not directly exposed to war events, it is an area along the border with the Republic of Slovenia, but despite the fact that grenades did not fall on our roofs hundreds of young people went voluntarily to the National Protection Units, the MUP troops and later the Croatian Army. To the mobilization calls sent from the Defense Office from our Oslja district office, 96% of people responded to the first call, which is proud of all of us. Many worked in neighbouring Slovenia, taking even unpaid ones annually so that they could participate in the defence of their country. It should be honest and admit, understanding their employers in the neighbouring country. Many have left their health, even their lives in defense, and the least they expect after all they've been through is respect. I support this bill because it is comprehensive, it deals with all categories of defenders, members of their families. The proposal sought to cover all the problems facing Croatian defenders. I would particularly support the level of penalties for not implementing certain provisions of this Act, because we know that it is often the case especially when it comes to employment that they have not been respected, and even today, that the provisions on the advantage of the employment of Croatian defenders are not respected, even though the law so far has regulated it. I would also support the definition of a Croatian defender from the Homeland War. And I'm glad that the people's protection were included, because we know that at the beginning of the war those troops were practically the only units that had weapons, which people often bought and bought themselves. Because we remember that almost entirely the ex-JNA exception, i.e. They hijacked the weapons of territorial defense, and members of the National Protection were able to cope in various ways so that they could go to the defense of their homeland. There were also comments that this Law and this definition would increase the number of Croatian defenders. But I don't think there's anything to be afraid of and why they should be afraid of. On the one hand, we have the fact that we still have about 68 thousand pensioners of members of the People's Liberation War, and I don't see any problem in that, so why would it be a problem and the number of Croatian defenders? I am certainly in favour of all those who participated in the Homeland War, so I am not for the status of a Croatian defender to be given to someone who did not deserve it. This bill, which goes towards restoring their rights to Croatian defenders at the same time, is realistic, in line with the possibilities of the Croatian state, the state budget. So I also join the invitation of many of my colleagues and colleagues to pass the law by consensus, which will give the Croatian defenders security. And I also wish that if we were to change it in the future for the benefit of Croatian defenders and members of their families, and not at their expense. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-26-0.u28028	Thank you very much. Mr. Ivan Leko Replica, please. I'm sorry, Joseph Leco, I always, well, that's our names.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-26-0.u28029	Of course. It's not the point of polemicizing with a colleague of Sopčić. I, of course, support the law that is real, which is precise and which is what I would say is feasible, not only today, but also in the future, which reflects the future. Why do I think it's supposed to be replicated to precision? In fact, I spoke to the Committee on Legislative Law in my court of law about Article 36. I have not been allowed to place members of the family of the injured, imprisoned and missing Croatian defender in the exercise of the right to housing. The law stipulates that family members agree which of them, only one in cases where more are entitled to housing according to this bill. This simply does not allow the Law to direct heirs or family members to agree which of them will benefit from the Law. Such a situation gives dissension to the family and does not solve the problem of caring. I ask that the Proposer take this into account, that is the interest of both the legislator and the defender. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-26-0.u28030	Thank you very much. Let's move on. Mr. Representative Stephen Bačić, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-26-0.u28031	Dear Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Croatian Defence, respected members of the Croatian Defence Associations who are monitoring this debate. I will support this bill on the rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families for several reasons. Already in the first reading this Law has shown that it has corrected those major injustices of the former Law which, in short lines, I would say, have demoted Croatian defenders especially by their famous translation and many others, I would say the complications which made it impossible for the defenders to exercise their right. The promoter himself said in the introduction that in this text we have received, it is evident that he has respected all the remarks that and amendments to most of them that have been in favour of improving the quality of this Law and that they are now and in this Law, and I hope that even after this debate, some other remarks and amendments will also be made, and in order to make the law as high as possible. I would not now repeat all the newspapers that this Law has in the second reading and in which is the difference between it and the old Law. I would only remind myself of some of the most fundamental ones, which is that an extended definition of the defender is and what has already been mentioned many times is that it has been extended to armed national protection as well as to members of the HoS. What would be good and what General Ćosic said is that once this law enters into force of our Ministry and our Government makes sure that members of the Croatian Defence Council in Bosnia and Herzegovina also get the merited recognition and that it participates with all possible support and our state. I would also like to see the employment and education that is important for Croatian defenders to be helped and that this Law in its settings enables and takes care of it. So, there's a lot of these newspapers that bring back the dignity, deserve the dignity of our defenders, and I'm going to support it, and I'm surprised at actually one proposal that came from the HSP Club to go into third reading, because I don't see, I don't really see any real reasons for that act. What Pancic said in his presentation at one hour when he said that their famous translation was to separate true defenders. You know, it reminded me a little of one terminology when members of his party in the past separated the Croatian people into so-called. Fair intelligence and others. Well, then somehow, I'm a little bothered by that termology because it seems to me that she's been onto some of these past events. I say once again, I will support this Law because it is both enforceable and just, it is implemented because it respects the financial opportunities of our country and it is just that it respects and takes care of all categories of Croatian defenders and gives them all the respect they deserve by their behaviour in the Homeland War. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-26-0.u28032	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative Ivan Bagarić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-26-0.u28033	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, Mrs. Vice President and the Croatian Defence Minister. Defence rights should be secured in a way that is first optimal under the given circumstances. Therefore, that the level of separation, or means to be such, should be optimal for the given circumstances of the country. Then, it's very important that they be enforceable and then even, I'd say just. This right, of course, should be covered by the entire defence population and that there is no injustice against any group or individual. The injustice hits and kills as well as the enemy weapon. Accordingly, this Law is a kind of link between all Croatian defenders. Defendor of the Republic of Croatia, but here I can say with pleasure and defender of the Croatian Defence Council. On Article 160, I would like to congratulate the Minister that it is said that the issue of defenders of the Croatian Council of Defence will be regulated, by this Law, by interstate agreement. That's very important. What will be regulated? I expect there will be regulated pensions, then health insurance and some other rights primarily related to the championship of enrolment in educational institutions but certainly again according to regulations in the sense that those who meet these conditions can be entered. This Law and the future interstate agreement will cover members of the families of the dead and missing Croatian defenders on the first line of defense as well as members of the family of wounded, Croatian defenders, the Croatian Defence Council, therefore, wartime military disabled who are wounded on the same basis. All other rights, disability, housing, and others will be resolved within the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina, or existing counties where our people live. So, in fact, Croatia will, by this law and this interstate agreement, provide one part of the right and then it will be even and no one will be left out as is the case now. I would explain why this was really necessary to do everything. Not only because the Croats from Bosnia and Herzegovina responded to Dr. Tudjmana as his colleague Cain says but also because members of the HVO defended Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Croatian people in Bosnia and Herzegovina and thus contributed to the defence of the entire area where Croats live in two countries and Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina. Let's remember the defense of the Croatian south. The Republic of Croatia south of Karlobag would have been insecure if there had been no insurance of the hips and depths of the entire battlefield, which was well provided by the Croatian Council of Defence and vice versa. It is clear to me that there would be no defence of Bihac, parts of Herzegovina and I believe neither Bosnia nor Herzegovina if it had not been for the assistance of the Republic of Croatia. On behalf of this common struggle, joint victims and common objectives, and this is freedom and today let us both be together and position and opposition and give our vote for this Law that sews and defends and recognises the defenders of the Republic of Croatia and members of the SDP and members of the HSP and members of the HDZ or the politically undefined defenders or defenders of Serbian nationality or any other nationality in the Republic of Croatia. All of them are my favor and my recognition especially to those who gave their lives for the freedom of Croatia and the Croatian people. In that name my personal support of this Law and my personal invitation to all of us in this assembly to share this law so that our defenders have equal rights, the rights that protect them, the rights that are equal to all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-26-0.u28034	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative Krunoslav Markovnović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-26-0.u28035	Mr. Vice President, Madam Minister, dear colleagues and colleagues. The new Law on the rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families brings a series of amendments that will improve the status of so far-time users of rights and extend the circle of users. By careful analysis, we see that the days of improvements are as high as the budget can bear. It is obvious that MPs who seek unrealistic, unreally transparent political points are today for defenders tomorrow for anyone else and the echo is like that. The defenders expect a fair and honest approach because of the self-releasing of individuals, they become a used object, not the main subject of this law. Madam Prime Minister, Madam Prime Minister has explained the improvements in detail, so instead of repeating, I would like to point to two problems. The first is a post-traumatic disorder that is obviously wider than an assessment. It is precisely because of defenders who are often unaware of their illness that professional people need to approach the defenders, so I support Mrs. Jadranka Kosor's proposal to organise it that way. We'd better admit more than that here. Normally because of different symptoms of disease than one case less. Because it's the only way we can reduce the number of tragic cases that occurred first and foremost because of a sense of abandonment and uselessness. That is why every defense attorney’s employment has contributed to the protection of the defender’s personality, so it is necessary to secure favourable loans and reprogramme the old ones. Young people are looking for the highest chance of making their own money. The daily stress of members of the families of the deceased defenders will surely decrease if there is no concern about the safety of education and security of existence. The other problem is that apartments were built under the law of the defences and families. For years we've been tracking sad pictures of unskilled apartments. How do the defenders who live in them feel? The war isn't over for them because from proving the shortcomings to the recovery, it's been too long. There is usually an abuse behind non-quality, so it would be interesting to explore which and whose companies performed the work, how much unquality material was installed by playing building and project documentation. Who has become rich in this and whether an explanation of Croatia's largest privileged builder will be prepared again. Everything was legal. Please welcome Madam Minister, on behalf of the defense attorney, who is reporting for full assistance from your Ministry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-26-0.u28036	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative Niko Rebic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-26-0.u28037	Mr Vice-President, the Honorable Vice-President of the Croatian Government is here before us the final proposal for a new Law on the Rights of Croatian Lawyers and members of their families. This is a pre-election promise and it is very important that the government fulfills it in the first year of its term of office. So even though there have been hasty and criticism, and we have had other bill proposals, so if we have waited a little longer, I think that with the new law we can all be satisfied together and most Croatian defenders and members of their families who, most of all, are concerned. That this is the case with the first reading that has almost been accepted by consensus. It is evident that the procedure for the recognition of the rights and the Law on the Rights of Croatian defenders will be achieved much faster and simpler. What is particularly important is that some of the rights prescribed by the 1996 law, which have been abolished by the 2001 law, are returned and some new rights are recognised for some groups of Croatian defenders and this applies to volunteers of the Homeland War. I especially thank the minister for keeping her promise to the seamen, and in this law among Croatian defenders, there are also sailors who have great merits for defending their country. Who still doesn't remember the brave people and sailors who have broken through Dubrovnik's blockade countless times, and what they have all delivered to the merchant navy's ships, and therefore the ministers on behalf of all the seamen I express their gratitude. Since in my first reading debate, I really want to believe that this Final Bill, as well as the law in the first reading, will receive the support of all parliamentary parties and that this topic will be above all policies. That's what they expect from us, I'd say, and our defenders. I find it very important and especially important, it's the atmosphere and atmosphere in which this law was created. After a long time, the dictionary changed completely in communication between the ministry and defence associations. There were no harsh words and no messages. The minister and her team have shown exceptional will, the tenacity to resolve all issues in a tolerated dialogue with full respect for defence associations. As a result, I would say, this joint bill. This law is almost an ideal combination on the one hand of defence associations and financial powers of the state on the other hand and what is most important is what makes us happy and what makes this law enforceable. Several defenders and a widow of the dead Croatian defenders who were threatened by defecation addressed me for help. This is the only one I'd actually say "depression," but here's what I have to do because I've submitted the amendment, so I hope you'll see it fully. I think it's actually an article 37 that says who doesn't have the right to care. So the article 37 needs to be changed in that section that says that the right to housing does not have those defenders who are residently cared for through the Law on Reconstruction. All these defenders have been reported not as restorers. So they're not the owners of houses but they're registered as members of the household, and you know by the Law on Reconstruction that the reconstruction went 35+10 squares. So it turns out, and that's actually the whole truth that several defenders from the field of special state care are due to 10 square meters of a restored parent house whose price is, believe me, is no more than 6.7,000 and they are ready and returned. So it lost its right to the apartment and now together with the members of their families who, of course, were young people who have spread today, so they are experiencing dramas of debaclement. If we add to this that they did not even know that their parents put them or relatives in the restoration, you can imagine how they felt. Therefore, my proposal goes to article 37, paragraph 6 behind the wording if it is taken care of by the Law on Reconstruction, the words "as the holder of the renovation" continue to appear in this text. Only in this change would defenders from occupied areas be in an equal position with defenders who are not for areas of special national, special state concern. Therefore, they would not be discriminated against by all the defenders from other parts of the house have family houses but are not punished for not being able to be taken care of. I appeal once again because it's really not about some large number of defenders, so, which is the most important 99% of them are already in apartments. However, it is also necessary to say, and it is also necessary to commend all who participated in the drafting of this law. Not only does he restore some rights, but he returns both dignity and pride to Croatian defenders. Our colleagues and colleagues have finally received a law that will not change for each election, so let this topic and this law as well as the rights of Croatian defenders be the subject of all parties and all policies because it is certain that our defenders deserve it.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-26-0.u28038	Thank you very much, Mr. Representative. Now she has the word of Mrs. Representative Ivana Sučec the Trakostanec here.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-26-0.u28039	I would like to thank Mr. Vice-President, Madam President, excuse me, Croatian Deputy Prime Minister and Madam Secretary of Defense. I am pleased to welcome representatives and representatives of all associations especially parents and widows. And just because there are so many women up there, there is no one in particular undermining the contribution of women to the Homeland War today. I'll remind myself that we weren't just on the front lines of the battlefield but we were in different situations in logistics, in kitchens. D.A. We supported our husbands and sons, and so we are fortunate today, and we have the privilege of taking care of their lives in peace. So Madam Minister is also a great woman. So here is what men have given, and women have made a great contribution. They also share the fate of this law. If the defenders or members of their families I want to say that in the first reading, of course, he was both technological and contentable. YES he was in this very short time and that is what the Trewba pointed out that it was a long period of law preparation that resulted in an agreement with those to whom it applies. Which isn't every law case. And therefore, in a very short period of time, those remarks were also made to us both by the trustee and the others who gave them into it. And the text in our manuscript will be adopted today, so this is one example of good technological implementation of a legal rule. Which all my colleagues have said, and I'm going to join, that it's comprehensive, contentable, enforceable, fair, applicable to those for whom it applies. To expand the circle of those who had long expected to exercise their rights, because the future acquisition of circumstances of course dealt with the defence of Croatia in the 1990s, every day as well as you were called by people who were in national protection, in the National Guard assembly, in the firemen, and who wanted to solve their status in any way as well as materially, but also have certain rights that then. Because other than, of course, money is also an important approach to respect, the approach to esteeming their merits, so it will gain satisfaction that they are part of the defence system of the Republic of Croatia. And I won't be much longer, but she would just remind us all. When it comes to conductivity, then I hold in the hands of the budget that we adopted, of course, a few days ago, in that budget are the cubes. But when it came to false defenders about disabled people, and everything else, I didn't hear anyone looking at these numbers about pensions and comparing how much money in the Croatian state is allocated from the budget, for those who participated in the Homeland War, that's about 2 billion and 900 thousand kuna, but also for those who participated in the war 60 years ago that's a third of that amount. So 900 million kuna stands out for the People's Liberation War fighters and no one wonders today whether someone's status should be controlled and it was possible to be a fighter to call it that, because that's what it was called, at some age 8, 9 or even earlier. So today I'm saying I look into the stomach of every defender in and pushes off to the end in every detail of his status. And there are longtime rights holders that we haven't mentioned at all that we haven't controlled, and they don't think about telling them whether they deserve it or not. Also, when we compare the amounts allocated by this country for the pensions of the Croatian Army they are in 2005 I speak 350 million kuna, and that the much higher amount we allocate for the pensions of former JNA members is about 407 and a half million kuna. So no one has any objections either, so I expect that neither this law with these amendments that the Government will assume will be perfect for us to adopt. So I congratulate Mrs. Secretary and her team and the government for giving the law like this. So they won't have any objections and they'll adopt it. And I especially congratulate those to whom the law applies and who probably deserve more but who understand the time and economic situation of the Croatian state. And once ready to give for Croatia the sacrifice is always ready to give. So they've put their personal demands on the other side of the agenda as well. They have accepted the opportunities of the Croatian budget and of all those who earn that money. So they are patient to wait for the possibility of a possible increase without disrupting any areas of life in Croatia by contributing their active work further to Croatia's improvement. I thank Madam Minister and thank my colleagues for the positive acceptance of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-26-0.u28040	Thank you very much. It's Mrs. Irena Ahel's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-26-0.u28041	I would like to thank Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam Vice-President of the Government, and the minister of the family, defenders and inter-regional solidarity. Representatives of the Government, colleagues and colleagues. I also welcome representatives of the association of defenders at the gallery, and I am particularly pleased that they are here today and that they were able to hear the praise and support of this bill that I am joining. Because I think that the law is first and foremost comprehensive, and highly enforceable. I come from the area of the city of Crequence, which did not directly suffer in the Homeland War, but also many of my fellow citizens have contributed to the defence of the Homeland in many of the wars throughout Croatia. Many of them are wounded and some unfortunately are no longer with us today. What these people have been going through over the past few years through the way they exercise their rights, which came out of the law, I find it really not appropriate for everything that we owe them. I therefore support the adoption of this law. And I think the law is really good, and that also indicates the fact that it is unanimously supported in the first reading. Through talks with defenders from their fields, I can really say that they welcomed this bill with great satisfaction, and they also express their gratitude to the minister who gave it and how much effort and all of its ministry, who made great efforts to correct all injustices and that this law would indeed be a law that will not change in the future from a variety of attempts to collect political points. I hope that today, together, we will all unanimously pass this law and that this law will be the law for the benefit of all Croatian defenders. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-26-0.u28042	Mr. Representative Marko Shirac, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-26-0.u28043	Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam Minister and Vice-President of the Croatian Government, colleagues and fellow MPs, dear friends from the Association of Volunteers of the Homeland War, I particularly welcome you. Although it was my intention to discuss the final proposal of this law extensively, since my colleagues from the Croatian Democratic Community have made a number of useful proposals in their discussions, I will be free not to repeat what they have said. But let me point out, however, that all of us know that the difficulties in implementing the 2001 law have caused damage to the defenders, especially the Croatian wartime wartime disabled and the families of the dead defenders. Some have also taken their lives for humiliation and deprivement of dignity, as well as for psychological burdens because of the difficulties they have found themselves in. It was therefore necessary to pass a new law on the rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families to return some of the rights of the law that was passed in 1996, and to recognise some new rights for Croatian defenders from the Homeland War, especially Croatian wartime people and volunteers from the Homeland War, and especially from the area of pension rights. No matter what our party promise was, it was always ours, and I personally had our defenders in first place, solving their life problems and needs, and we were always ready to do so in accordance with the possibilities of our country and our society and our nation with which we live in this country. Here, such a law is in its final form before us, and in the meantime between the first and this second reading of that law, I have received several letters from the Associations of People's War participants of Zagreb brigades in which they presented some of their proposals, in order to improve the provisions in the final draft of the law. However, in a detailed analysis, I found that the Croatian government had already implemented almost all these remarks, as these proposals also went towards the ministry. I therefore have no other specific objections. I believe that the provisions of the law are well done and reflect the goal of the one that we plotted by passing this law. I would take this opportunity to congratulate Mrs. Vice-Presidents of the Croatian Government, her team and our government indeed on the procedure carried out in the making of this law, because this is a real example of how laws are done in collaboration with those to which the provisions of this law will apply and which are directly related to the implementation of this law. I am convinced, here we are and that we will all be together in voting to pass this law, that here today or when we vote we will return all these rights in accordance with our capabilities and I am convinced that the citizens of the Republic of Croatia and our volunteers will be pleased to accept the implementation of this law in life. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-26-0.u28044	Thank you very much. Please, if you can speed this up a little bit and cut it short. Now, Mr. Damir Spanish. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-26-0.u28045	Mr. Vice-President, Madam Vice-President and Minister, Mr. Secretary of State, Mr. and gentlemen, the representatives of the Associations of Victims of the Homeland War, dear colleagues and colleagues. I'm really going to try to cut short the prepared text and let me thank you on behalf of Pacrac and Lipik, the two cities that were extremely injured in the Homeland War and say a few sentences. In the opening address, Madam Vice President said the following sentence: If there were no defenders, neither would we be here today. Yes, that's quite true, and Madam Vice President, I think that in my opinion, today is a very, very important sentence that has been said here today in this assembly. I am taking the opportunity to give thanks from the Pakrac and Lipik area to the defenders from Bosnia and Herzegovina who in August 91 were most difficult to defend both Pakrac and Lipik and I ask my colleagues from immigration, so from the BH diaspora to thank each other, therefore on behalf of Pakrac and Lipik. I am also a disabled volunteer of the Homeland War and I come from two cities that have already suffered direct destruction of EUR 605 million. So two small cities were severely destroyed. Just one example. About 110,000 heavy missiles fell on the town of Pakrac in the fall of 91. There were both women and minors, and I am particularly pleased that Article 2(3) of this proposed law includes persons who have acquired the right to use this law. I am particularly pleased with Article 55. 56, 57, which refers to young people, which is scholarship, home accommodation, and the award of free textbooks. What is particularly important is the new status and defined status of volunteers of the Homeland War. And now something about employment, like the biggest problem, a zone of special state interest. I'm looking forward to the establishment of 10 new buildings and everything that goes towards the requalification and education of the defenders of the Homeland War. I am especially pleased, therefore, with the assignment of a business space, but what is very important, one time, so just once, everyone will have to try and work on it. And maybe just one example from my town. Here, I would also like to thank you for the funds that came as a subsidy to the ministry of the company Ban from the city of Pakrac, where 34 defenders who have been employed in the past 4 months are working. Of course these funds will be of great importance to us, Madam Vice President. I hope you will soon share the keys to 29 apartments, for the 29 families of the victims of the Homeland War in the town of Pakrac, and I am particularly pleased with the support of the Ministry of the Homeland War Museum, which is being arranged in the town of Pakrac. What I must make public here and say, I hold in my left hand solutions from November 21st, 2003, and in my right hand I hold a solution from March 22nd, 2004. In the left hand is the solution to Danica Schreter, mother of Dr. Ivan Schreter, who is still missing between 1174 and Madam Vice President, when you are the President of the Republic of Croatia amongst the thousand 174 still disappeared and, Madam Vice President, when you are the President of the Republic of Croatia, please take the fate of doctors of all the missing, but especially for the fate of Dr Ivan Sheter. So, in the Museum of Homeland War in Pakrac, there will be one injustice, one negative solution to abolishing the status of Dr. John Sheter's mother, one good positive example, one right to return all the rights that have been taken away from the mother of Dr. John Shether. And finally, we will certainly give absolute support, along with the thanks of the two cities of the victims, and I am pleased, Madam Minister, that you and your associates have prepared a fair and extraordinary law that really brings back dignity to the defenders and victims of the Homeland War, and when you look at Pantovich, keep an eye on the implementation of that law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-26-0.u28046	Dear Representative Petar Mlinaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-26-0.u28047	Dear Mr. President, the Honorable Vice-President of the Croatian Government and the Minister of Croatian Defence, dear colleagues and colleagues. As I represent the City of Vukovar, the Croatian Podunavlje and Vukovar-Srijem County, the city and the area most severed in the Homeland War, it is clear that I will look again at those who have submitted the greatest sacrifice in the creation of an independent state. I'll remind you of the Day of Remembrance of Vukovar's sacrifice in 1991, a detail that no one should have missed. Namely, that day, on November 18th, the Colon of Remembrances immediately behind the stygonos with the state, county, city, town of the Croatian Society of Campers from Serbian concentration camps and 204. The Vukovar brigades were just members of this famous war unit from all over Croatia. This occasion would not be about its status with which recognition still has certain problems, and these problems should be addressed in walking. It's about how nice it is to see all these people, war fighters who proudly set foot on the streets of the city who bravely defended the bloody in 1991. It is they who are truly Croatian defenders, who have been defending Vukovar and Croatia for three months, which is exactly what we need to think about today when we consider the proposal for a law on Croatian defenders and members of their families. Most of them returned to their town but some are all over Croatia. They all remember their brothers, friends, neighbors who fell in the defense of Vukovar. A part of them, but also a large number of families, more than 500 of them are looking for their loved ones. So we need to find a way to help them in the law. Because moral support isn't enough and it can't be the only one. Except members of the famous 204. The Vukovar brigades of the City were also defended by volunteers, by members of the National Guard Assembly, by the People's Protection but by civilians, by all those victims, by all of them, all living together and surviving the horrors of a three-month experience over Vukovar. And for all of them, we have to worry about their future. War participants still die today at the Memorial cemetery of victims of the Homeland War in Vukovar. At least once a week let's say goodbye to one of our comrades. Unfortunately, so is elsewhere in Croatia. Their body, not even 13 years after being disabled and wounded, suffered severe beatings during captivity in Serbian camps simply cannot withstand the disease of the cardiovascular system and cancer, the everyday life of former campers and all of them need to be cared for today and have understanding and a little more flexibility. Let's not let the administration make their position more difficult this time. Just as in Croatia, Croatia has shown all its solidarity, unity and unity on November 18th at the celebration of the 13th anniversary of Vukovar's death, just as on that day the city streets in the hospital's Memorial cemetery of victims from the Homeland War could be seen Croatia in small, the same Croatia that has resisted far more powerful enemies, which is why I call you to unity and the adoption of laws and full readiness to adopt, in addition to quality law, effective implementing acts and ultimately to do all of this in the work. At least the defenders deserve that much. Madam Vice-President of the Croatian Government and Minister of Croatian Defence, thank you for this law. In a little over a month's time going on a new homeland duty, you'll go straight and up. Good luck to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-26-0.u28048	Honorable representative Mato Raven.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-26-0.u28049	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, dear Minister, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Of course, I wish the Minister a great deal of luck, but if he'll come to Pantovchak, there's still a lot of fighting left. But the important thing is that this one battle is the first battle to be won, which is at least about the law. But allow me before I go to law school, to make one impression of myself. Listening to many colleagues on the left, I wonder if we were in the same army, were we fighting on the same side? Because the way some people go hard, it turns out our goals are different. In order to avoid any doubt, I will personally say that I am a volunteer of the Homeland War, that I am an officer of the Croatian Army, that I have fought and fought for Croatia. So, no Yugoslavia or any other association is out of the question and that there would be no confusion, so that there would be no confusion, respected colleagues and colleagues, I do not recognise any of you more Croatian, and I am sure there are no smaller Croats than I am. So, so much in the introduction that once we start talking in a different environment about important things for Croatia's future. So, no matter what political option we belong to, I call for tolerance, so despite my intention to speak differently about this law, I turned my debate almost from the basics. I hope you don't mind, and I'm ready to de-commit with all of you. Of course, I, like all, share the satisfaction of all of you that this law has finally come to the agenda, and in particular I share the satisfaction of all those who are users, i.e. that this law will tang, therefore, with all the defenders and members of their families. Carefully listening to the opening statement of the minister who, in her chosen words and in her calm tone, expressed the view that this law finally restores the dignity of the Homeland War fighters, that it solves the problems of this population in the long term, some permanently. That this law corrects certain injustices, that the law is financially tolerable and particularly enforceable, gives the impression that this law is a full hit. Or, according to the minister, this law seems to be a significant step towards ensuring a peaceful and dignified life for all Croatian defenders. Whether or not it provides, is it really so, as far as these optimistic words are and are founded, we will see all together very soon when this law finally comes to life or as our people say, they were alive and seen. I personally express my satisfaction with this last one, and that is the primary conductability and financial tolerance of the law. From the many debates we have heard, and especially from the clubs of HSP and SDP, and by my court, it is doubtless that this law, regardless of all the controversy that has been shown so far, is the continuation of the continuity of previous laws, that fortunately there are no major excerpts that would go to harm Croatia, that the government understands all the weight, but the complexity of the situation in which the Republic of Croatia has given up many unreal promises in the past period, especially in the pre-election campaign. That's what my colleague Pancic said a lot more about it, so he wouldn't want to say it again. Unfortunately, we must admit that many good ideas still have a basis today, and no matter how much foundation they have, some other better and considerably richer times must wait. I believe that we will all be together for not long and welcome those times and that we will then show the necessary unity. Because defenders and members of their families are a directly sensitive population, a very strong internal sensitivity and interdependence, and especially compassion. What the undeniable defenders never fought for themselves, they fought for a better tomorrow for the future. I am convinced that we share the common opinion that the same defenders are doing today. Of course, I'm talking about responsible defenders, not those who were very quiet and often far away when it was thundering, and now they've become quite loud in the pursuit of their rights. Our people say when arguments are thin, the voice becomes stronger. However, fortunately for all of us, such ones are in the minority and I believe that it will soon mature into a time when patience and the usual self - secrecy of most of us will stop and that they will quickly say enough to each other. Of course, laws and responsible authorities must primarily go in that direction. While this debate was going on, I was called by a colleague who is a 60% disabled Homeland War, and who, unfortunately, has not yet resolved his status, is waiting patiently to come to order. I'm sure we know very much about such examples, and that's the size of the defenders and the defense population. As a defender, I know that defenders don't ask for many, don't ask for courtship, don't ask for impossible, ask for a fair and correct relationship, ask for respect for their real and often lacked, lifeless, small problems, ask for consistency, but the truth. And the truth is often very painful, if for any reason the truth is manipulated, it's usually even more painful in the end. For these very reasons, I hold a more reasonable, more cautious approach and optimization of the solution in accordance with the actual performances of this Law, but the struggle for all of us behind the truth as a universal concept. Unfortunately, due to the absence, or the inability to establish the necessary higher dose of tolerance for lack of tact or timely understanding of the problem, failure to find and artificially created bad communication, common human errors over the past few years, this has not been the case. From various... constant conflict in the relationship of former authorities – defenders, which has resulted in a number of bad solutions and often unnecessary conflicts, even moreover, for known reasons many associations have been manipulated no matter how much we want to accept it or not, many have been used for "events of the people" or the like. Let us remember many such gatherings that as lite motives had in one part an excuse but ultimately had a completely different purpose. But fortunately, I believe that these times are definitely behind us and that never again, for any reason, and no matter who is in power, they will not repeat them. Since many associations have come from the Homeland War and some are still with us today and I personally welcome, after taking a responsible look at the need to face attitudes but also real opportunities, in addition to showing the necessary unity, it seems to me that the assumption has been created that... much greater responsibility and tolerance has been created, which, unfortunately, in the past time period, I have repeated has not been excellent and has been greatly lacking. If this Law solves the main problem, or if the change of government has caused many problems to disappear if this Law gives a new incentive to the planned direction of the Republic of Croatia, if it will affect raising the threshold of tolerance and mutual understanding, it is, in particular, the greatest and indirect value of this Law, not only directly but indirectly. I believe they agree with me and ultimately expect all Croatian defenders to do so. I have no intention of commenting on the law, but allow me only two things. First, I am grateful on behalf of all members of 108. The brigades of the National Guard's assembly, which was included in the Law for the sake of the guard of the people. I hope that the issue of volunteer status will also be resolved because many of our comrades have volunteered to join the task force, and this is an extremely well-known State Secretary, but here is a difficult time to find a measure and find a time limit to how optimal it is to obtain volunteer status. I believe that the amendments and the accompanying acts of the Minister and these issues as well as the questions of members of the Croatian Council of Defence but also of other quality will be resolved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-26-0.u28050	Thank you. The correction incorrectly states the respected representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-26-0.u28051	Mr. President, I would only briefly correct the inaccuracies of Mr. esteemed colleague Gavran in which he claimed that someone had questioned his national Croatian commitment, it was nothing more than a sub-strategic, it was not spoken to any of us in general about the relationship between your colleagues from your club who were certainly not directly assisted by your initiatives but were not challenged by the adoption of such norms and relations to Croatian defenders.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-26-0.u28052	Marko Turic, correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-26-0.u28053	Your Honor, Your Honor, Mr. Raven, my special respect for your participation in the Homeland War. However, I'm misjudged that we fought on both sides and that something is different for us. It's just that we had something in common, and it was against this, and it's common to us, and that's what we felt. I won't go in and elaborate on it just to show, I'll just tell you where we came from that we almost put everything under question, everything was questionable and all somewhere artificial, the disabled are all fake, etc. Now I'm just going to tell you one example of myself as the head man of the health care facility I got from last year's government from my doctor's history of the Croatian defender where it was written "blast injury and propatry" let me translate it, got injuries in the war for the country. I'm told this must be a fake disability. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-26-0.u28054	Representative Pero Kovacevic. Before that, the Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-26-0.u28055	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the defence and family associations of Croatian defenders. Here, just a few sentences, I actually support almost everything the distinguished representative spoke of earlier, but here from his experience and MPs in two mandates and now Vice-Presidents of the Government and the Minister, I cannot agree that he could manipulate, namely, anyone in any way, by any means be able to manipulate the Croatian defenders who defended, free Croatia so that I believe it is a lapus, something else you might have thought to say. But therefore, I repeat once again to defense associations cannot be manipulated, Croatian defenders have their own vision of Croatia and continue to fight for it in numerous associations today and that is the fact. I would only like to conclude at the end of the course and thank you for the mentioned and tolerated debates that have indeed taken place today in one acceptable atmosphere, to say a few more details that I would like the respected MPs and respected MPs to know. Namely, we have just been talking about it was also about the fund today, the Croatian Defence Fund, we opened offers this week for the property management company. Namely, a tender for the management company of the Croatian Defence Fund has been completed and we have opened offers. These offers are 5 and somewhere by mid-December we'll have final results on the property management company. So, I repeat, the Croatian Defence Fund that goes along with this Law is one of the most powerful, which will be one of the most powerful funds in Croatia, which will have around 3 to 4 billion kuna. There were also words here about the determination of war routes. I must say that the war routes have been entered and the register of Croatian defenders will also be completed by the end of the year. So we will have a complete and final number of Croatian defenders. I would also like to clarify once more the provision of Article 11, which has been discussed by several MPs who are obviously not read well, or read in the right way. This article, i.e. that provision on the release from participation for Croatian defenders from the Homeland War, with at least 30% of the body damaged. So, Croatian defenders, they are not talking about Croatian wartime disableds who under the general rule, so according to the Health Insurance Act are freed from participations, so they do not stand for those assessments to suffer Croatian defenders with 20% damage, so most often those who have suffered from post-traumatic stress disorder have been damaged in this way, they are all repeating once more according to the general regulation, according to the Health Insurance Act, according to the amendments more precisely from 2002 released from the payment of participation. And finally, I just want to remind myself of the fact that little is known, which is a little bit said, and the fact is that in this year we are ladies and gentlemen, so this Croatian government, along with a number of measures that we have taken for employment, and to reprogramme the credit of the Croatian Bank for renovation and development and to reduce the cost of the apartment, and to introduce measures that allow for the treatment of those who have so far failed to participate in the treatment and rehabilitation that we have succeeded and recovered the debt from 1997, so according to the 1997 Law, and that is why we have provided 149 million in this year. So, with all this, with the implementation of the regular law, another 149 million. It's kind of left in silence, it's kind of stuck aside. And it is worth saying and worth mentioning all of this once again on the common trail of restoring dignity we talked about today to Croatian defenders and, of course, members of their families. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-26-0.u28056	Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect alleged representative Ivica Pancic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-26-0.u28057	Well, I must correct Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister's incorrect allegations when he says it's not about manipulating Croatian defenders and associations and that it's probably about my colleague Raven's lapus. I must point out that there is no Miomir Zuzula in the SDP Club, so no one here can talk about the laps, but it's about manipulation. Let's remember... He declared his former government chiefs high treason because of his co-operation with the International Court in The Hague. [[speaks off, can't be heard]] Today, the same government has handed over eight Croatian generals to that court, and there are no other headquarters. Just like there's no advertising of those..
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-26-0.u28058	Thank you very much. Yes, but thank you very much. Repeating what was simply not, which is not what anyone was saying to the high treasones of the people you mentioned. And the esteemed representative of the Mato Raven.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-26-0.u28059	Thank you very much, Mr. President, instead of just correcting and elaborateing what started my colleague Pancic, I will still allow the public to best assess whether or not there was manipulation. Mostly the lapus isn't. And let me give you the satisfaction of getting along. I expressed my doubts whether we were on the same side, obviously we were, and I'm glad, I hope that after this and the tone and the diction will be quite different. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-26-0.u28060	Please. Representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-26-0.u28061	My colleagues and colleagues, I will seek to present my individual exposure for the sake of time, and finally, on behalf of the Croatian Party of Rights Club. Before I say so, I must say that I have been asked by the Association of the Parents of the Dead of Croatian Defendants to convey their position, that they did not, they only gave principled support to this Law, did not give support as presented. This was also asked by the Association of HVIDRA of the City of Zagreb, this was asked by many coordinations from Zadar, Sibenik, Sisak and from other parts of Croatia, so that part is heard. Now you have to say the following. That's, the final bill is better than the bill, that's true. Better than the bill of law, the Final Proposal of the Law. Mr. Shakespeare, I ask you to secure order according to Article 214.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-26-0.u28062	214th Order Security. Okay.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-26-0.u28063	214.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-26-0.u28064	Here you go. Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs have a little patience yet. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-26-0.u28065	So it's better than it is now than I'd like to talk about it this time. So the view that, as the first ones will, so the HSP club depends on how the government will treat our amendments, we only gave them 14, we could give more, but we didn't want to suggest a third reading. Now, in the end, I am also asked by the Association of the widows of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War of the Republic of Croatia who tell us MPs, please read our children's message, because they do not have the opportunity to show the state they are currently in, the conditions that have passed and the fear of what will be tomorrow. The Syntagma of the privileged needs to finally clarify what their privilege is. Their father was 28, 33 years old and the pledge of their death to the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia was the sure future of those to whom he would attend a parenting meeting, those with whom he would share the joy of any success. Their father would support them in finding their first job, their father would be a grandfather who helps his grandkids. He'd be alive, but he's not, and that's why the pension they have while they're at school is paid, and if it's already necessary, it should be compared to the salary of Dad's peers, not to the pension of those whose sons are 40-year-olds. Not a single parent’s employer abolished his salary when his child graduated from school but continued to help his children. Then why is death considered privileged status? Death is a specific stress situation and no ability to confront can change the ultimate side of loss. In dealing with death, the main task of family members is to deal with a situation that is immutable and that we have little and no control over, while the role of the state is to mitigate this loss. By reason of the circumstances of death in defence of the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia, the state institution must assume the obligation of special protection of children and wives of the dead and dead Croatian defenders, with the mention of the generally known family, is the basic unit of society and the natural environment for the development and welfare of its members, especially children. What I'm asking is the possibility of a meeting at your club that we did. Therefore, keep this in mind, and it would be nice to read what children of the dead Croatian defenders say about their fathers and what they write. ... Yeah, but I was asked to read it. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Mr. President, I'm asking this throwing doesn't make sense. ... I'm making fun of it? [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-26-0.u28066	Peace, please!
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-26-0.u28067	I mean this position that I make fun of when the association asked me to read this letter, associations and children, it's really incomprehensible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-26-0.u28068	Five minutes of debate, a respected representative and vice president, Luka Bebic, on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Union's Club of Representatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-26-0.u28069	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Madam Vice President, Mr. Minister. I have a need on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community to thank the ministry, the minister and her associates and associations who, after persistent and systematic work, agreed most of the articles of this law and brought a successful end so that this Parliament could finally pass the law. I also thank, on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community, all the parties in the Croatian Parliament who, through their constructive contribution, have significantly influenced and we have reason to believe that we are going to make consensus on this so important law, the Law on Croatian defenders and the law that regulates our whole relationship to say so towards the Homeland War, and that is one great gain, so this can mean in this important matter about the view, about the treatment of the participants of the Homeland War that this country is mature to pass such a law by consensus and that in the future it will no longer be the subject of a dispute between the parties in the Croatian Parliament. I am particularly pleased that these laws are covered except for the Croatian military, the MORH, the police, the MUP, the Croatian defence forces of the HoS and the members of the armed national protection teams that they can testify about when the military were taking over, when the weapons warehouses I had the privilege of writing an executive order in 91 years, that these people and members of the people's protection were very important at those times when we came to arms and when the Croatian military actually took a break and had the means to succeed, later and a winning defence in the Homeland War. I would also like to say and underline, Croatian Defence Council, thank you for being included in this law, which is based on Article 10. The constitution and its successful and large participation in the defence of not only Bosnia and Herzegovina but parts of Croatia especially in the Croatian south, that they are included in this law and that these relations will be regulated during the state contract. Many here spoke of restoring dignity to defenders and volunteers of the Homeland War. I don't think so, because they never lost that dignity, and the other thing is whether we recognised it on behalf of the Croatian country and state. By this law, I believe that the Croatian political public and political parties and Croatia as a whole definitely and permanently recognise this dignity of the participants of the Homeland War, and I think we will confirm this by adopting a consensus of this law. I thank everyone once again, all the parties, the associations, and I hope we can pass a good law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-26-0.u28070	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. Since the number of amendments the government must be made and the cabinet meeting is on Tuesday afternoon, then we will vote on the amendments and on the final proposal of the Law on the Rights of the Homeland War and members of their families so that the application of this law can begin from 1 January of next year. Thank you, Vice President and Minister. Ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, we are going to discuss the amendments and the vote and the final proposal of the Law on the Rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families. I welcome the representatives of the Co-ordination of Associations from the Homeland War and members of their families, all associations and their representatives. I've requested and requested HTV to deliver this vote. [[Applause]] Please quorum. Quiet. I find that 79 MPs are present in the hall, so there is a valid voting quorum, but that without notice and explanation, MPs from the opposition, except for HSP, are not present and the vote and the debate on this Act. It serves them pride, honor, and discipline. The president of the HDZ Representatives Club, Vice President Luka Bebic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-26-0.u28072	Mr. President, I suggest that amendments to the adoption of this law be voted by the raise of hands and by the vote on the Law to be voted individually. By calling.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-26-0.u28073	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-26-0.u28074	And I still have something, Mr. President, to add. As on Friday, I call on Article 14 of our Rules of Procedure, which says that the representative has the right and the duty to participate in the meetings of the Assembly and to debate and vote on them. In connection with Article 32 of the 18th indent, it can be seen that there is no one here from the Club of the SDP, the CNS of the PGS, the LIBRE, the IDS, the HSS and the two representatives of the LS, so I ask you again to inform the Klub of the representatives of the HDZ and the Croatian public, which is why, on the basis of this Article 42, the President is concerned about the protection of the rights and fulfilment of the duties of the representatives. So it's based on the Rules of Procedure, so I'm asking you again, because this isn't the first time. So, I suggest that for the amendments to raise your hands, and the individual appeal for the adoption of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-26-0.u28075	Thank you. I ask the Deputy Prime Minister, the Secretary of Defence, the Family and the Intergenerational Solidarity of Mrs. Jadranka Kosor to be shown about the amendments. Amendment 1, MP Đurđe Adlesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-26-0.u28076	Mr. President, the government does not accept this amendment, as the law shows that, under the terms of the Croatian defender, both persons of male and female are considered. So, defenders, Croatian defenders won't be damaged in any way.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-26-0.u28077	Thank you. There's no representative. We vote. Who's in favour of this amendment? One representative. The amendment didn't go through. 2. The War Veterans Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-26-0.u28078	The government doesn't accept. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm correcting. The government accepts this amendment by the War Veterans Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-26-0.u28079	Thank you. It becomes an integral part of the law. 3. HDZ Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-26-0.u28080	The government accepts this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-26-0.u28081	Thank you. It becomes an integral part of the Law. 4. Deputies of Bozica Šolić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-26-0.u28082	The government has accepted the amendment to the HDZ Council of Representatives, and this amendment is also covered automatically.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-26-0.u28083	Thank you. Consumed. 5th Representative Đurđe Adlesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-26-0.u28084	The government does not accept this amendment, as it is evident that both women and men are involved in volunteering and volunteering under the concept of Homeland War. In any way, unless this amendment is accepted, the woman involved in the defence of the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia will not be damaged.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-26-0.u28085	Djurđe Adlesic doesn't have any. I'm voting on this amendment. Who's in? 1 vote. He didn't get the necessary majority. Six. HSP counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-26-0.u28086	The government accepts this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-26-0.u28087	Thank you. It becomes an integral part of the Law. 7 Government, it's an integral part of the Law. 8, HSP's Club of Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-26-0.u28088	Mr. President, the government does not accept this amendment, because it cannot be accepted, because in that case, eradicating the time limit of the prisoner's status would also have persons who were only in transport and not imprisoned in an enemy camp.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-26-0.u28089	Proposer, MP Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-26-0.u28090	You're only talking about one piece, Madam Vice President. There were many who had been imprisoned in Knin for 36 hours, they went worse than anyone had been for three months. I know 4.5 cases like that. One man was shot five times at the same time. It was 32 hours. It's over. I know you've only got a situation for campers on this part down here, Podunavlja. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-26-0.u28091	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Nine. The War Veterans Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-26-0.u28092	The government accepts this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-26-0.u28093	Thank you. It becomes an integral part of the Law. Ten. HSU counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-26-0.u28094	The Government shall not accept this amendment on the grounds that the provision of Article 5(3). The final bill makes it clear that those persons exercise the rights of Croatian wartime wartime disableds from the Homeland War, not the status of a Croatian wartime wartime war invalid from the Homeland War.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-26-0.u28095	Thank you. Amendment 10 withdrawn. Amendment 11. The War Veterans Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-26-0.u28096	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-26-0.u28097	Thank you. It becomes an integral part of the Law. 12th Representative Đurđe Adlesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-26-0.u28098	The government does not accept this amendment with reasons because the proposed provision of the Law has already extended a number of rights to Croatian defenders from the Homeland War, in line with the possibilities of the state budget, according to the law. It is a new provision for the introduction of the release from participation for Croatian defenders of 30% of physical damage.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-26-0.u28099	Djurđe Adlesic doesn't have any. We should vote. Who's in favour of this amendment? 1 vote. He didn't make it. 13, HSP Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-26-0.u28100	The government does not accept this amendment. An explanation as well as an explanation with a previous amdnaman.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-26-0.u28101	He's already been consummated because this one's been rejected, right?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-26-0.u28102	Yeah, yeah.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-26-0.u28103	Comrade Kovačević, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-26-0.u28104	Well, it's not the same explanation, Madam Vice President. When you accepted the 11th amendment, then Gjurjin's amendment... It's 20% related. [[You don't understand.]] So you shouldn't have voted. But I went on behalf of the HSP Club to expand that it applies to both Croatian defenders and others who are, who do not have the status of a Croatian military disabled. So, this amendment should not have been voted on before, because as soon as the amendment of the Committee on Law, the Committee on War Veterans, was adopted, this amendment, Đurđe Adlesic, was also automatically accepted. So I went on to refer to Croatian defenders who, many unemployed, have no compulsory health insurance, so in situations like this would have the right to be treated for a disease caused by the Homeland War. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-26-0.u28105	Okay. Who's for Amendment 13? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 14, Club of HSP Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-26-0.u28106	It's unacceptable, Mr. President. Explanation. The amendment shows that there would be a significant deviation from the intended funds for the implementation of this law. The peacement reached under the Pension Rights Act is about 45% higher than the pension achieved under the general rule. In addition, the legal principle would be violated that a specific regulation applies only if a particular substance is regulated by the general regulation. In the event that the pensions of active military personnel, police officers and authorised officials, i.e. authorised officials, are also subject to those articles of the final draft law on the rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families, such pension would be recognised under two specific rules. These categories of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War should they be asked to determine that the disease is an injury or an injury caused by participation in the defence of the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia from this basis is recognised as a general incompetence for labour, they can retire under the Law on the Rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-26-0.u28107	Representative Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-26-0.u28108	I do not accept the argument that these Croatian defenders who are retired under the Pension Insurance Act of Active Military Persons and Authorised Persons have come to a more unfavourable position in this way, and now it will mean that they will all go back to the Employment Assessment Act to come to the Law on the Rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-26-0.u28109	Please, who's in favor of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 15 also the Club of HSP Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-26-0.u28110	The government does not accept this amendment. The explanation is as well as an explanation for the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-26-0.u28111	Representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-26-0.u28112	So the same situation is related to that first amendment of ours. We ask for a vote, because they will be put in a more unfavourable position.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-26-0.u28113	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 16 SDP representatives' clubs.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-26-0.u28114	Mr. President, the government does not accept this amendment. The reason is that the legislator's intensity in Article 17(1) and (5) is that the status of a Croatian wartime wartime invalid from the Homeland War has affected the pension level as was established by the 96th Law when the status of a Croatian wartime wartime invalid from the Homeland War affected the pension level through the salary level when calculating the pension. Article 15 of the final proposal makes it clear that Croatian defenders from the Homeland War who have established general or professional incompetence to work, fully or partly linked to the defence of the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia, have the right to a disability pension under this law, regardless of the status of the Croatian military invalid from the Homeland War. Therefore, the Committee for the Review of Disability Assessment as set out in Article 32 of the Law is not bound by the established status of a Croatian wartime invalid as a valid law, since disability and inability to work are two different legal categories, and therefore the Law on the Rights of Croatian National War defenders is not related to the establishment of a general incompetence to work with the status of a Croatian wartime war invalid from the Homeland War.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-26-0.u28115	Since there are no proposings from the SDP's Club of Representatives, we should vote. Who's in favour of this amendment? No one. 17 club representatives of HSU.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-26-0.u28116	The government does not accept this amendment. The argument is the same as the explanation I just read about the amendment of the SDP Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-26-0.u28117	Thank you. ... Amendment 17 withdrawn. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Amendment 18 Clubs of HSP Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-26-0.u28118	The government does not accept this amendment. The proposal shows that there would be a significant deviation from the means provided for in this law from the state budget, and the applicant did not prepare a detailed simulation in order to really see the amount.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-26-0.u28119	Here you go, colleague Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-26-0.u28120	So the simulation was supposed to be prepared by the government because I was saying it at first reading, but it's unacceptable to make a difference here right now in the event of a wound. If five people are killed by one grenade, they will not have the same pension rights but will have the same pension rights depending on what status they had. Better will be those who had the Guard status, and who was the reserve or the police would not have that status. So it's a violation and what was in '96, and I can't accept it at all. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-26-0.u28121	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 19th Amendment also belongs to the Club of Representatives of the HSP.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-26-0.u28122	Mr. President, we would accept this amendment with a supplement so that it means in the proposed paragraph behind the word "prescribe" they add the words "in six months from the day of entry". If the club accepts.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-26-0.u28123	Thank you. HSP advocates' club accepts. So Amendment 19 of the HSP Representatives Club was adopted with this add-on. 20 also club representatives of HSP.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-26-0.u28124	This amendment is not accepted. The reasons are the same as in paragraph 14, i.e. relating to the 14th Amendment of the Club of Representatives of the HSP.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-26-0.u28125	A colleague of Kovačević.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-26-0.u28126	It's exactly your explanation, ours is the same, and we're looking for a vote here.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-26-0.u28127	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 21 of the same club of HSP representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-26-0.u28128	The government does not accept this amendment. It is the same that the proposal shows that there would be a significant deviation from the intended funds, i.e. the secured budget for the following year, and there is no need for simulation so that it is entirely uncertain how much is involved and it is certain that large amounts would be involved.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-26-0.u28129	A colleague of Kovačević.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-26-0.u28130	You, Madam Prime Minister, that amendment 22 is to resolve this issue in a different way. We went to that variant if it was a family pension that was acquired under previous laws, when one of the members lost their status you said here at 22. So he's partially contained in this, so you should have said he was contained at 22, so I would have given up, because it's not contained in this 22. Government. That's the part I warned you about. So that variant family now has five members, Mrs. Balog knows it from widows, and what would happen is that when one member graduated from school he doesn't automatically exercise his right to retire anymore then it would go to the calculation according to this article but you put in at 22 then I quit, but not because of your explanation but what you have behind.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-26-0.u28131	Okay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-26-0.u28132	Okay. Thank you. 21 withdrawn. 22 Government becomes an integral part of the law. 23 HSP representatives' clubs.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-26-0.u28133	Mr. President, the government does not accept this amendment. The reasons are the same as the reasons for amendment 14 to this review of the amendment of the HSP Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-26-0.u28134	Representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-26-0.u28135	The vote, because it's the same as our argument.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-26-0.u28136	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 24 Clubs of Representatives of the SDP.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-26-0.u28137	Mr. President, the government does not accept this amendment. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth The final draft of the law clearly states that Croatian defenders from the Homeland War who have established general or professional incompetence to work, and are fully or partly linked to the defence of the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia, have the right to a disability pension under this law regardless of the status of the Croatian military invalid from the Homeland War. Therefore, the Committee for the Review of Disability Assessment, as set out in Article 32 of the Law, is not bound by the established status of a Croatian wartime invalid as in the current law, since the disability and incompetence of two different legal categories as I had just explained, and therefore neither the Law on the Rights of the Croatian Laws of the Homeland War of 96 related to the establishment of a general incompetence to work with the status of a Croatian military disabled. I particularly point out that very few Croatian defenders from the Homeland War have established pension under the Law on the Rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families, and that there is no recognised status of Croatian wartime invalid, as a rule because of obstacles to the procedural nature, not because the general incompetence for work is not due to injury, injury or disease related to participation in the defence of the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-26-0.u28138	Thank you. Since there is no proposer, we must vote. Who's in favour of this amendment? No one. 25. HDZ Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-26-0.u28139	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-26-0.u28140	Thank you. It becomes an integral part of the law. 26. HSP counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-26-0.u28141	The amendment is accepted, with only one proposal. In fact, the amendment states that the words "except for the management posts" are deleted, so we accept that. But the law says "except for executive jobs" so there's no confusion that it doesn't happen to remain, so let's delete all of this. So with this addition, Mr. President, the government accepts the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-26-0.u28142	HSP representatives' club agrees with the proposed amendment 26. The club of HSP representatives and becomes an integral part of the law. 27th Amendment of MP Nika Rebić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-26-0.u28143	I'm withdrawing the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-26-0.u28144	Mr. Representative withdraws the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-26-0.u28145	Amendment withdrawn. 28th Representatives Marija Lugarić, Ivo Josipovic and Jelena Pavicic Vukicevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-26-0.u28146	The government does not accept this amendment. In fact, the government thinks the provision of article 53. The final bill does not send the wrong message, as advocates state in their amendment, the wrong message to young people and does not contribute to the creation of a value system that does not stimulate learning and work. It is about the amendment on the advantages of enrolment of children of Croatian wartime wartime disabled, or children of volunteers, because we think that children of Croatian wartime people and children of volunteers from the Homeland War must pass, that is, in this visible law and the pointal threshold, and satisfy the test of ability and generosity in order to have the right to direct enrolment. So for these reasons, the Government does not accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-26-0.u28147	There's no proposer. Who's in favour of this amendment? No one. 29. HSP counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-26-0.u28148	The government does not accept this amendment for the same reasons as several amendments before that. In fact, it is not fully clear how much the amount is concerned, it is evident that there is a significant deviation from the budgeted funds provided.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-26-0.u28149	Proposer Vlado Jurkic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-26-0.u28150	Madam Vice-President, this amendment, and it is about benefits for motor vehicles, of course it is difficult to speak in favour of this amendment today, given the fact that the budget has already been voted on, but there have been promises that this law will be voted before the budget, there really is not too much point now and this amendment could correct a great injustice against all those who have not been able to use the advantages for importing cars while they were worth it. And that's why I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-26-0.u28151	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 30th Amendment of the Club of Representatives of the HSP.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-26-0.u28152	Mr. President, the government is proposing that the HSP MPs' club withdraw this amendment. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The final draft law is already regulated in Article 159(2). The final proposal for a law, and until that regulation is adopted, will be subject to the existing Regulation on the conditions and procedure for the implementation of customs, customs and tax exemptions from Croatian defenders and members of their families. Thank you very much. [[Intruder: Pulling.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-26-0.u28153	Thank you. Amendment 30 is withdrawn. Amendment 31 of the same club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-26-0.u28154	This amendment is not accepted, but I am also proposing to the HSP Representatives' Club to withdraw this amendment. Why? Namely, because it is in the procedure that the law, the new income tax law, will be passed. And it is this new law that removes those, that I fully agree with you inadmissible and embarrassing provisions about taxing pensions, because the new law, therefore, regulates it only as we consider correct, which is that that pension is not income and that it is not taxed. So I suggest you withdraw that amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-26-0.u28155	We hold you to our word and withdraw.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-26-0.u28156	Is that what it stands for, you have the law... Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-26-0.u28157	Thank you. Amendment 31 withdrawn. Amendment 32. SDP counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-26-0.u28158	Mr. President, the government does not accept this amendment. Namely, the offices of the state administration in the county and city of Zagreb are currently not performing the tasks that would be done in the district units of the Ministry of Family, Defence and intergenerational solidarity. We continue to think that these regional offices should be established, this is proposed by a new law, because in this way it will certainly make life easier for both Croatian defenders and members of their families. We will make us finally turn to those people who won't have to come to Zagreb and wait days to have someone just talk to them, let alone solve their question. So we don't accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-26-0.u28159	Who's in favour of this amendment? There's no proposer. No one. 33rd also the same club of SDP.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-26-0.u28160	The government does not accept this amendment. The existing law regulates the translation of recognised rights within 3 years of the date of entry into force of the law. The deadline expired on 7.11. of this year, and due to the size of a particular area unit's operations, the deadlines were requested. The translation of recognised rights to the provisions of this law is technically not feasible within 6 months with the number of employees at the disposal of the Croatian Pension Insurance Office. So this is a job that does not work by the Croatian Ministry of Defence, but by the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute. We believe it is doubtless more favourable that pension that is higher in cash, which is determined by the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute in the translation of recognised rights. If, in the translation of recognised pension rights, one kuna will not be reduced but a recognised pension will continue to be paid. According to our projections, the provisions of this law did not go to harm but to the recognised pension rights of Croatian defenders and members of their families but to their benefit. As is known, the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute, at the request of the user or future beneficiary of pensions, shall calculate pensions and beyond the pension right process. So the government does not accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-26-0.u28161	There's no proposer. Who's in favour of this amendment? No one. And the last amendment to the Club of Representatives of HSU.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-26-0.u28162	The government does not accept this amendment. Explanation as at the previous point, i.e. a statement on the amendment of the SDP Club of Representatives [[Then I'll take the last one back.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-26-0.u28163	Retracted. ... Amendment withdrawn. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much, Vice President and Minister and Ladies and Ladies Representative. We're going to vote on the law by name, by calling.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-26-0.u28164	Jene Adam, Đurđa Adlešić, Irena Ahel – za, Zdenko Antešić, Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, Željka Antunović, Franjo Arapović – za, Mato Arlović, Zdenka Babić-Petričević – za, Stjepan Bačić – za, Jure Bajt – za, Marija Bajt – za, Ivo Banac, Luka Bebić – za, Marijan Bekavac – za, Snježana Biga Friganović, Danira Bnjić – za, Jure Bitunjac – za, Mato Crkvenac – za, Radimir Božaković – za, Ljubica Brdarić, Mirjana Brnadić – za, Kayo Bučanić – za, Perica Bukić – za, Kar, Karmela Caparin – za, Mato Crkvenac, Radimir Čačić, Radimir Čjekić – for, Lino Čukažjakiš - Zkiš - Zkjakiš, Zukj
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-26-0.u28165	Comrade Chehok, we still have a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-26-0.u28166	Miljenko Doric. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-26-0.u28167	Don't come. Please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-26-0.u28168	Valter Drandić, Ivan Drmić - za, Josip Djakić - za, Anto Djapić, Sreko Ferenčak, Mirko Filipović, Stjepan Fiolić - za, Katarina Fuček - za, Ratko Gajica, Mato Gavran, Branimir Glavas - za, Vilim Herman, Silvano Hrelja - za, Nikola Ivaniš, Rade Ivas - za, Gordan Jandroković - za, Ivan Jarnjak - za, Vlado Žadar Žakovak - za, Ivo Josipa Žaković, Alenka Košičin-Šain, Pero Jurčević - za, Zlatko Kramarić - za, Antun Kapljavić - za, Vladimir Žažač, Žažažažažažar, Žažažažažažaža Žaža, Žažak Žažak Žaž, Žažak Žažakić, Žaž, Žažaž, Žažov Žaž, Žažak, Žažak, Žažič, Žažak, Žaž, Žažović, Žač, Žažik Žač, Žažak, Žač, Žažik Žažik Žažik Žažik Žač, Žač, Žač, Žač, Žač, Žać, Koš, Žaćkić, Žać, K., K., K., K., K., K., K., K., K., K., K., K., K., K., K., K., K., K., K., K., K., K., K., K., K., K., K., K., K., K., K., K., K., K., K., K., K., K., K., K., K., K., K., K., K., K., K., K., K., K., K., K.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-26-0.u28169	Now says the regulation of those who don't need to be called back if maybe he didn't show up in the meantime and then you'd give me the final number.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-26-0.u28170	Jene Adam, Đurđa Adlešić, Zdenko Antešić, Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, Željka Antunović, Mato Arlović, Ivo Banac, Snježana Biga-Friganovic, Ljubica Brdarić, Mato Churchvenac, Radimir Cačić, Tomislav Culjak. I'm sorry, no. Miljenko Dorić, Valter Drandić, Anto Đupić, Srecko Ferenčak, Mirko Filipović, Mato Gavran, Villa Herman, Nikola Ivaniš, Ivo Josipović, Ljubo Jurčić, Marin Jurjević, Damir Kajin, Antun Kavrljevljević, Ivan Kolar, Miroslav Korenika, Alenka Kosisa-Sain, Zlatko Kramarić, Željko Kurtović, Ljubica Lalić, Željko Ledinski, Josip Leko, Dragotim Lesar, Slaven Lesar, Slavko Ljelica, Slavko Linić, Šima Lučin, Marija Lukarić, Nikola Mak, Jakša Marasović, Ante Marko Markov, Jagoda Marić, Jagoda Marić, Neven Mimić, Zvić, Milanka Opić, Ivica Pančić, Božidar Pankdar Pankreć, Jela Pankić, Jelna Pavić, Željić, Željko Željko Žjeljko Žović, Žović, Žović, Žjeljić, Žjeljko Poš, Žjeko Palić, Žović, Žalić, Žalić, Žalić, Žalić, Žalić, Žalić, Žalić, Žjeko Palić, Žjeko Poš, Ž.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-26-0.u28171	Okay. Please let's see the final sum. Thank you very much, Jadranka. Ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, I find that, unanimously with 80 votes, the Law on the Rights of Croatian Lawyers from the Homeland War and members of their families is in the text as proposed by the Government along with the amendments adopted. Congratulations to all the associations of the Homeland War, defenders, widows and all the other and members of their families who participated in the creation of this Law, prepared this Law together with the Government. [[Applause]] Congratulations, Deputy Prime Minister Jadranka Kosor and all MPs and MPs who supported and voted for him. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, we will proceed with the session. It is on the agenda: - Final proposal of the Law on Confirmation of the Guarantee Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and the European Investment Bank for the Road Completion Project in Corridor X in the Republic of Croatia, emergency procedure, first and second reading of P.Z. No. 201; The Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and when establishing the agenda, we accepted the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of this Act. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings of the Law. Amendments may be submitted until the end of the debate carried out by the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Communications, Finance and the State Budget. I would like the Secretary of State at the Ministry of the Sea, Tourism, Transport and Development of Zdravko Livaković to further explain the proposal. Here you go.
