ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7244	Ladies and gentlemen, I am opening the 5th session of the Croatian Parliament, I warmly welcome you all. I particularly welcome the President of the Government of Mr Ivo Sanader, vice presidents and members of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the 4th session of the Croatian Parliament by mail. Any objections to the record? There isn't. I'm confirming that we've adopted the minutes of the 4th session. Ladies and gentlemen, we are moving on to the agenda of the session. With the invitation to the session, you also received a draft agenda. At the session, you are given the final draft agenda. In the final draft agenda, I included 5 new points, and this, the Proposal for a Law on the Security Protection of Commercial Ships and Ports, open-air international transport, with the Final Bill, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 60. Proposal for a Law on the gradual exclusion from the navigation of tankers without double payment with the Final Proposal for Law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 61. Proposal for a Law on Cultural Councils with the Final Proposal for Law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 64. Final draft law amending and supplementing the Value Added Tax Act, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 8. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on County, City and Municipalities in the Republic of Croatia, with the Final Proposal of the Law, Proposer: SDP Representatives Club, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 63. This Regulation shall enter The Rules of Procedure determines firstly that the proposal to adopt a specific law is to be adopted by an urgent procedure. The final draft agenda referred to in points 1 to 5 under points 7 to 10 and 15 and in point 23 shall specify the laws for which an emergency procedure is proposed. These are: 1. Proposal for a Law confirming a guarantee agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the European Investment Bank to finance gas system projects in the Republic of Croatia, investor Plinarro d.o.o., with the Final Bill Proposal, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 54. Second, the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Belarus on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of the avoidance of income tax and property tax, with the Final Bill Proposal, the emergency procedure, first and second reading of P.Z. No. 53, Third, Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of a Guarantee Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development for a Energy Efficiency Project, with the Final Proposal of the Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading of P.Z. No. 59, Fourth, Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families, with the Final Proposal of the Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading of P.Z. No. 56. Fifth, Proposal for a Law on specific conditions for placing flour on the market, with the Final Proposal for the Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading of P.Z. No. 58. Sixth, Proposal for a Law amending the Food Act, with the Final Proposal for the Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading of P.Z. No. 57. Seven, Proposal for a Law on the Protection of Commercial Ships and Ports Open for International Transport, with Final Proposal for Law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 60. Eight, Proposal for a Law on the gradual exclusion from the navigation of tankers without double payment, with the Final Proposal of the Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 61. Proposal for a Law on Cultural Councils, with the Final Bill, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 64th and 10th, Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Areas, Countys, Cities and Municipalities in the Republic of Croatia, with the Final Proposal of the Law, Proposer: SDP Representatives Club, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 63. Under point 9 of the emergency procedure, it is proposed to adopt a Law on the gradual exclusion from the navigation of tankers without double payment as the said law bears the label P.Z.E. on the application of the emergency procedure in accordance with Article 161(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, We don't vote on the rules of procedure. Do any of the representatives have any objections to the application of an emergency procedure in the adoption of these laws? Dear Representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7245	On behalf of the HSP Club, we oppose the adoption of the Law on flour proposed by the Government by an emergency procedure, because of the following facts. Yesterday, on the Committee on Legislatives, we simulated the application of the provisions and it is evident that the law is quite lacking. The other important thing is that the law would have just started to apply since 1 July of this year. So there's plenty of time to make a quality law that's going to be enforceable, and all solutions are in advance insulated, not to do a law that's not going to be enforceable.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7246	Thank you. Dear Representative Antun Vujic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7247	Thank you very much, we ask on behalf of the SDP Club to withdraw from the emergency procedure of the Proposal for a Law on Cultural Councils. 64. In fact, this is about abolishing the councils, and creating a commission instead of councils, derivating the practice of naming them through the government, rather than having the minister appoint them and resolve them, then abolishing some councils such as for media culture and urbanism. It is then prescribed, and it is not resolved that these councils will function at the city level of more than 40,000 inhabitants. The number of members from 5 to 7 shall be changed to the Council's legally established councils and to the discontinuity of the work of the Council. and finally, I would like to mention that the Law on Cultural Councils was passed in this House unanimously, and by an urgent procedure, we should put it out of force, so it would be better if such a law were also called the Law on the Elimination of Cultural Councils. I ask that this be put in the ordinary procedure at the very least, there is no need for such a law to be passed by emergency procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7248	Thank you. Honorable Vice-President Luka Bebic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7249	Mr. President, I suggest you take point 23. P.Z. No. 63., Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Areas, Countys, Cities and Municipalities in the Republic of Croatia with the Final Proposal of the Law puts it in regular procedure and there is no need for the necessity of the procedure according to our assessment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7250	Do any of the other MPs have any objections to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the proposed laws by emergency procedure? There isn't. We're going in a row now. Who is responsible for the implementation of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Guarantee Contract Act between the Republic of Croatia and the European Investment Bank for the financing of the gas system building project in the Republic of Croatia, the investor Plinarro d.o.o.? Who's up for this proposal? Thank you very much. Against? I find that, with 121 votes for unanimous in the agenda, this bill has been included in the emergency procedure. Second. Who is for the implementation of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Confirmation of Contracts between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Belarus on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of income tax and property tax? Who's in favor of this motion by emergency? Thank you. Against? I find that, with 122 votes in unanimity in the agenda, this bill has been included in the emergency procedure. Teka. Who is responsible for the implementation of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on the confirmation of a guarantee agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development for the Energy Efficiency Project? Who's in? Thank you. Against? I find that unanimously with 122 votes for, in the agenda by emergency procedure, this bill has been implemented. Who is for the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families? Who's in charge of emergency procedures? Thank you. Against? I find that with 117 votes for and 5 against, on the agenda of an emergency procedure, this bill has been included. Fifth. Who is the subject of an emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on specific conditions for the placing of flour on the market? It was an objection to an emergency procedure. Please, who's in favour of an emergency procedure for the adoption of this Act? Thank you very much. Against? I find that with 71 votes for and 52 against, on the agenda of an emergency procedure, this Final Bill was included. Who is to apply the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Food Law? Who's in? Thank you. Against? I find that, unanimously with 123 votes for this Final Bill proposal, it is included in the agenda by emergency procedure. Seven. Who is open to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on the Protection of Commercial Ships and Ports opened for international transport? Who's in? Thank you. Against? I find that, unanimously with 124 votes on the agenda, this final bill was included in the emergency procedure. Eight. Here we have the objection of the representative, Mr. Honored Vujic, to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Cultural Councils. Who is to apply the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Cultural Councils? Thank you. Against? I find that with 73 votes for, 52 against, this final bill is included in the agenda by emergency procedure. Nine. We also object to the adoption of the Emergency Procedure Act. Dear Representative, Vice-President of the House of Mr Bebić, on the Law amending and supplementing the Law on County, City and City Areas in the Republic of Croatia. Who is to apply the emergency procedure for the adoption of this Act? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Thank you very much. I find that with 51 votes for, 74 against this bill is included in the ordinary procedure. The application of the emergency procedure is not accepted. There have been no written objections to the agenda I have proposed with the call for the session, and this agenda shall be in accordance with Article 203(4). The Rules of Procedure are considered adopted. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Rules of Procedure, the objection can now only be made to those points which did not contain the draft agenda, accompanied by a call for a session. The final draft law amending and supplementing the Value Added Tax Act, second reading, P.Z., was included under point 11. No. 8 earlier, it was wrong to point out that this was a proposal, that it was a P.Z.E., only a final draft of the law. Proposed Law No. 8. Any of the MPs object to including this point in the agenda? There isn't. Ladies and gentlemen, the agenda has been established. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the I should be the one to publish the established agenda now. I suggest that if you agree that I am not reading the full agenda, I should just announce that the agenda has been established the way I suggested it in the final draft agenda. I see the MPs agree. So we have a fixed agenda for this session. On behalf of the SDP Club, the president of the Club is a respected representative of Ivica Racan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7251	Mr. President, allow me to request a break from the SDP Club before I move to the "Current morning" because of something I think is becoming unacceptable in Parliament's practice. “The current morning” we have already witnessed for a long time, especially its preparation for the application to ask a question, the issues compromise seriously this Assembly. As it is known that the questions asked by the MPs must be lost for hours and hours all night long, and here's how the day and the whole night has gone. I don't think that makes sense. For this session “Current morning” we have led to absurdity. The HDZ deputies and MPs gave a list of issues after 13 hours yesterday, of course, of course, MPs and HDZ representatives. So only questions to the Croatian government by the government-supported club, by HDZ. I would say that such “current morning” turns into a farce. Instead of questions, instead of questions to the Government, critical issues to the Government we get “Current morning” as an EPP to the Government. It is not good for the government, and even less is good for the Croatian Parliament. I therefore ask on behalf of the SDP Club to consider this situation in the name of the seriousness that we all have as a commitment to the work of this Assembly in an effort to try to see how to get out of this situation if possible in agreement between the clubs of representatives, and if that is not possible then each club will decide how to put itself in this situation. I'd like a half-hour break. Thank you very much. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7252	Quiet. Quiet. Honorable representative William Herman on behalf of the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7253	Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues 4 years ago, the situation was about four times improved four times because until then, "The current morning" was "The current clock" and it took about an hour. Now we have 4 hours of “Current afternoon” significantly disrupted due to the establishment of the agenda, and then additional interventions, and so does not actually happen “Current morning” in its fullness, so at that time so that it should happen. It is obvious that this four times improved situation still does not express itself as the situation that would allow this Parliament to take place “currently in the morning” and, in part, “after afternoon” for the benefit of citizens because they listen to these questions with interest. They must be different. They must come from different political paths and simply because Club Libre wants to warn that he has made proposals on his part in a certain way and warned of the need for the Rules of Procedure to be prepared in this situation as it should be desirable, not the one we have today, which is possible and the reading is actually impossible. We're also looking for a half-hour break.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7254	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HSP Club, respected representative Miroslav Rožic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7255	Thank you very much. Mr. President, the HSP Club is also looking for a 15-minute break. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7256	Thank you. On behalf of the IDS Club, the respected representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7257	I've got one wrong quote to fix and we're also looking for a break. Wrong quote. May I? On this list for asking questions in this “Current morning” is not just representatives of HDZ as Mr Racan pointed out, and it is clear that the IDS Club wants to join this initiative by asking for a break, although we are aware of the fact that in this way we will make it impossible for other MPs to actually ask the question. The question arises who inauguration this devastating practice, which was bested by Vlatko Pavletic and Mr. Zlatko Tomcic anyway. It was inaugurated by the HDZ, but accepted by the SDP at the second regular session. And that's where the problem came from. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7258	On behalf of the HSS Club, the respected representative of Ljubica Lalic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7259	I thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. On behalf of the Croatian Peasant Party Club and we are looking for a half-hour break because it really is the meaning of the “Current Clock” to enable all MPs who are on their turn on time, and if a person from parliamentary practice, and in this case it has deviated from parliamentary practice, we think that all clubs should have been informed about it in order to prepare themselves. But this came suddenly, for unknown reasons, unannounced, and this is actually aimed at disabling the question of MPs from opposition clubs and therefore seeking a half-hour break.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7260	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS Club, a respected representative of Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7261	Thank you, Mr. President. And the HNS-PGS Club is also looking for a break for the following reasons: January 26th of this year, the Bureau of Parliament concluded that the Rules of Procedure of this Parliament regarding the “Current Morning” should be amended because the situation on how and the possibility of asking parliamentary questions has been practically disabled. The Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System called on representatives' clubs to submit their proposals in which direction and how the Rules of Procedure should be amended. The HNS-PGS Club gave its proposals within just a few days and then never again on the agenda of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system that item was not put on the agenda or held between the two meetings of the Committee, and I remind you that at the previous session of the Bureau of Parliament and asked you to speed up to regulate this as soon as possible. Since the Rules of Procedure or the Rules of Procedure on amending the Rules of Procedure regarding the “Current morning” are not even started, I think we need to agree on further behaviour during the “Current Hour”. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7262	Thank you. On behalf of the HSLS and DC Club, a respected representative, vice-president of the home of Đurđa Adlešić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7263	Mr. President, we'll have 15 minutes to take a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7264	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HDZ Club, a respected representative, Vice-President Luka Bebic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7265	There have been constant remarks that time is being taken for the “Current Clock” so that, for the last time, we have had 40 questions from the MPs, a record of the past. We will have 10 minutes for this break so that we can respond to any discussions on how to organize the “Current Clock”. Because we want to minimise the time and leave as much time as possible for “The current clock”.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7266	Thank you. I agree that the questions of the "Current morning" and the question of this parliamentary issue are causing all the recommendations and inconveniences that we have witnessed for a long time and to find a way out of this situation for today, for today's "Current morning" especially for today I am setting a 30-minute break. My colleagues and colleagues continue to work. Please, on behalf of the SDP Club, the president of the Club, the respected representative of Ivica Racan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7268	Mr. President, colleagues and fellow MPs. On behalf of the SDP Club, I propose for this situation which is currently an athok solution, while I hope until the next session of the Assembly here in the Assembly we do not decide on a permanent solution to this problem in order to avoid further compromise of the Parliament. Today we see the way out in that the list that was made is not respected and that the athok list is created. Where they will be present on that list and representatives of all clubs. It can be on, say, three MPs right to one question. If he insists on the list that was made this way, I say in advance on behalf of the SDP club, we are not ready to participate in such an epic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7269	Thank you. On behalf of the Club LIBRE, Honorable Representative William Herman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7270	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, colleagues and colleagues. I think we're actually in front of a one-eyed situation that really shouldn't be like that. Namely, if the motive for this current morning is to ask questions and they are primarily interesting to citizens, they are also concerned with those interests that citizens have. Then it seems to me to be the most honest and polite of this second most polite to limit nothing literally to the duration of this current morning, or current issues. And as much as the goth seems unpractical and observable, of course the government has jobs, But it's not business and answering important questions. If the representative is the one representing the interests of the citizens, so much so in our court at the club LIBRE is a perfectly appropriate model and should not be called that, which would not actually suffer any restrictions. The current prenuptials lasts while there are current questions. So there's no current morning. We suggest that they simply ask questions as long as they have them. Then there's no figs in the pocket. There will be no night wakes, which in fact was a very cavalier relationship between colleagues and a good atmosphere after all could happen and some breakfast. But a joke to the side. From the moment the lists began to form, regardless of who influences it or does not influence it. All more or less energy is simply everything that belongs to the Rules of Procedure, including those rules that we consider to be good practices simply fall into the water. Which is actually a normal parliamentary response if not this in the spirit of parliamentaryism. Let us be responsible for the citizens of the Government together with us, and let us not put restrictions on the duration of the current issues. And even when you look at it on this side, which is somewhere in the hearing, so can anyone limit those issues that are important. Who, by court, are of any importance to any representative as a representative of the people. I don't think that should be limited to anything. And that's why I repeat this proposal, how impractical it is, the spirit of parliamentaryism. And first of all, we suggest that the Committee on the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure be hurried by the proposal and at the top of those proposals in the context of those that exist at the LIBRE Interpret Club on how it should actually look and here is one of the current proposals on how the current issues should look. If you'll allow me to warn you before the second proposal, that some parliaments have in a narrow sense the current clock is part of our proposal. If we want to create a good atmosphere in the spirit of goodwill and in the spirit of what it means to send a message to the citizens, then it will be understood that the current clock is, in a narrow sense, a particular topic that is the strongest of all possible topics and that will be dedicated to our topical debate is limited time. This is what many parliaments in the world do, as well as about my first proposal, many parliaments in the world do not separate and have no restrictions on duration, not mandate, of course, I am joking. It's about the limitations of the length of time to ask questions. Very quickly, any glamour would be lost around the wake and about the heroic roles of the MPs who are now not knowing how terribly busy they are that night and have to be on duty. So let's do who, let's try to make that effort. That's the first proposal. A second proposal, to get out of this difficult situation today. Just to hear the painless. They are painful but they are created because a framework is created in which the spirit of parliamentaryism does not actually happen. So it is a struggle within some time to ask questions which is completely absurd and so in a place that is narrow, of course, that cannot come to what is the spirit of parliamentaryism and messages of this institution. And that's that she's open, that the government is ready to answer and that we're ready to ask really questions. No traffic in the Shenaesters, so that's the second proposal. It's one of the first ones. And today we can ask questions as long as we have got these questions. Here's if it doesn't seem like we're practically going to check it out, so maker it take till late nights. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7271	Thank you very much. On behalf of Klub HSP, Honored Representative Miroslav Rožić, please choose a colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7272	Your Honor, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Mr. Prime Minister, and all the ministers who are here today. Really allow and pay attention because the situation is really awkward and I think the time has come for us at the HSP Club we have long concluded this because we are actually a club of parliamentary parties that has experienced parliamentary practice in the Croatian Parliament asking parliamentary questions from the foundation of the Croatian state until today. And all from the position or opposition benches to say so, or from the opposition mile. Therefore, we know everything that has happened in the Parliament. Many of us remember all the variations that have been implemented in the Croatian Parliament so far in order to establish this institution is asking parliamentary questions and we are particularly sensitive to this topic. Well, I'll say a few things that are important for the public, but also because of MPs who don't have such a long internship in the Croatian Parliament and don't remember all the possible variations that happened in the Croatian Parliament, which were up to one of the first and to this day actually went towards destroying both the dignity of the Croatian Parliament and the dignity of the MPs in this House from being camped here all night in the Assembly with thermos and sandwiches and to various solutions that some of them were elegant. The colleagues who were with me at the County Hall remember some rather elegant solutions from the County Hall, but they never revived anything like that. However, the right of MPs to ask questions to the president and members of the government during the so-called so-called ‘Government’. "The current morning" or some time to ask questions, certainly one of the foundations on which parliamentary democracy rests and not only in our country but practically in the world. The parliamentary issues have two fundamental purposes. The first is that, on the basis of the questions raised, the representative and parliament are of course concrete, and the public is also given the information they are interested in. And secondly, these issues are an important means by means of which, in fact, they are specific. Let us call it so an ordinary representative can directly communicate with the President and members of the Government and thus publicly verify both their responsibility and their competence, or if you want to make an entirely honest public pressure to take some concrete action or make some concrete decision. Of course, the representatives of the position and opposition are in completely different positions and, of course, it is much more important for those of the opposition to establish and verify that competence or responsibility of the government or put pressure on them to take some concrete actions than for those representatives who belong to the position because they can practically communicate with both their Prime Minister and their government members in other ways and in any way they will, and not only by asking parliamentary questions, and this should be made quite clear that we are in different positions towards the Prime Minister and the Government, we from the opposition and those representatives from the position. Of course, it is not the right of the positioners to ask questions, but only to stress the difference of importance for each and every one of us to ask the question on "The current morning". In contemporary media especially television-mediated parliamentary life or so on. "tele democracy", "current clock", or "Current morning" has a number of additional roles of which I mentioned, of which it is certainly the most interesting kind of parliamentary game of positions and opposition. Of course, MPs from the position ask questions that usually contribute to the government, which are, in fact, the propaganda of government policies while on the other hand, those in the position tend to ask unpleasant, ticky, or even gladiatorial questions. We, as a club on the initiative of the President of the Parliament and the Presidency of the Parliament on March 2nd, so almost three weeks ago, we referred to the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system of our proposals for change, in two variants that I do not particularly wish to elaborate here, but I will say here that we have managed the fact that almost all democratic parliaments in the world are facing this problem and that this is not only a problem of the Croatian Parliament and that these solutions can be based on the previous and personal and party experiences of the Croatian Parliament, but of course on the rich experiences of other democratic parliaments there, so in our proposal we have consulted on how this was resolved in different parliaments from the Israeli Parliament of Knet, where our foreign minister was recently resident and could personally be convinced in the practice that there exists across the European countries, the Czech Republic, Latvia, Portugal, Portugal, Portugal, if you want to be one of Great Parliament with the National Parliament. Of course, until this session, our proposal could have been considered and corrected and adopted, but unfortunately it was neither the committee nor the discussion. When it comes to our parliamentary and parliamentary experience, then I think it is easy to agree that all the meetings of the Assembly so far have blatantly violated the business provisions in the case of the "current clock", i.e. "Actually in the morning" and that the provisions on the creation of a list or order of representatives who have the right to ask questions, and this last rule, which is quite clear in Article 180(3), that the order for the question to be asked are determined according to the order of the register of representatives in the session's presence, and the book of attendance opens the session by an official person on the first day of the meeting two hours before the start of the session in front of the Grand Council. It's a current business decree. All MPs in this House, their staff of the Parliament, all journalists are familiar with the exact opposite practice. The creation of the so-called so-called creation. The illegal, midnight, morning, afternoon lists and notes then used at 7 a.m. as some sort of illegal starting point for forming some order in that book of presence. Popularly we at the club have called it witnessing the last practice, the war of wild signatures that lasts here this is already the third session in a row. This war of wild signatures has indeed taken forms that are completely absurd from making lists of different parties, from making lists of different representatives who start there, started at midnight, and then it lasted all night, and it moved the day before noon, and finally at this session it moved to 24 hours before the beginning of the session where there were several wild signatures that were being brought and applied, and one of which you won't believe was even taped to the bench to which the book for writing the order of presence comes. Well, it's a good thing it wasn't nailed like that announcement that Martin Luther was banging at the church door. In any case, on March 2nd, the HSP club proposed two variants of the "Current Clock" and allow only a short time. We suggested that the "Current Morning" be transferred to the "Current afternoon" so that it would not be taken away from the most productive part of the day to the Government that works on its specific obligations rather than to be more suitable to answer parliamentary questions in the afternoon. We suggested that the time from four hours should be reduced to two hours and we suggested two variants of setting up a way to ask questions, one of course is scribbling. I repeat, all based on parliamentary practice throughout the world, and another variant, this variant of scribble is known for Great Britain and all the countries of Commonwealth and some other countries. And another variant that would consist of making two lists of MPs asking a question, one positional and one opposition. That the questions are being asked by shifts, to determine that the current clock lasts only two hours, but every day of the week. So during the Parliament's meeting, let's take, for example, every Wednesday afternoon, two hours of the government answering questions, and that's how it answers, questions are asked until the census is exhausted. When the list is exhausted, it is reassembled. In this way, no MP would know when, when it would be 10 or 11 or 15, perhaps next Wednesday would be 2 or 3 because he would not know when that list ended, or when the order ceased and continued on the existing list. In this way, we would make sure that the government's question from the bench and from the opposition's bench is changed, so that everyone comes to order, so that we can ensure the continuity of the institution's asking a representative question, would the government know that every Wednesday sits here during the meeting of the Croatian Parliament for two hours and answers parliamentary questions. What we're doing right now is simply unsustainable. And that, among other things, is the reason that we didn't and we don't want to engage as a club in this war of wild signatures, it's the carrying and passing of paper and paper, the accusation that someone took or brought or removed a list that was completely illegal and completely outside the provisions of the existing Rules of Procedure. The existing Rules of Procedure may not have a good solution, but I certainly didn't reveal America and the name of the club if I said this. The solution that exists in the Rules of Procedure is the only real solution. It may be bad, but the foundation of democracy is to respect the solution that exists whether it is bad or good. If it's bad, let's change it, but in any case we're obliged to respect it first, and if we don't, then we're sending a message to the public that they're not obliged to follow certain regulations either. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7273	Thank you. On behalf of the IDS Club, Honorable Representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7274	Dear Mr. President, esteemed gentlemen of the government. Clearly, we need to sit down and figure out what to make this current clock look like in the future because, we'll all agree, this is no longer possible. I'm sure he can't do this any more next time. Even though we are all aware that these games are also part of parliamentaryism, but it is also undeniable that of them, especially at the beginning of the term of office of one's government will not profit the opposition but unfortunately only the position. I'd like to say something else to this occasion, too. That this is happening, so that someone doesn't think it's twilight, or the rise of parliamentaryism in the Republic of Croatia. I'll say the exact opposite. This is kind of affirmed by parliamentarians who are ready, under quotes, and struggling to come to the opportunity to ask the government one, under quotes, a banal question. What is true, however, is something else and this confirms that our Rules of Procedure is certainly, under quotes, in this section concerning the current morning and the asking of parliamentary questions, under quotes, absurdities. The problem is that you are such a Rules of Procedure, we propose ourselves. It is not proposed by the government, yes, adopted by the former majority who is now in the minority. I have said before, who has inauguration this for me a humiliating practice which has already badly surpassed the one from the time of Vlatko Pavletić and Mr. Zlatko Tomcic. So, I said, HDZ at the first session, but unfortunately, it was accepted by the strongest opposition party at the second regular session. All those who have resisted such a practice, which we have argued that if any of the principles and the bad ones that have been put into question by two mandates, we will simply question the function of the current clock ourselves, and this is confirmed today. If by such force in the opposition we were fighting, under quotes, for some principles, we could form a government and document certain rules. What's going on between the lines is that there's even some kind of parallel-in-the-morning play going on, gentlemen, it won't be. If that happens, the degradation of parliamentaryism will be largely degraded by parliamentarians. And in the end, all this will lead to the country's executive power, which is even stronger than the role of the Croatian Parliament. So, instead of imposing ourselves on the executive authority alone by destroying credibility, under allegations, we also tear down Parliament's position as parliament's representative. I do not dispute that even a parallel morning may be the sight of some political expression, absolutely yes, because it comes from the inability to ask the most elemental parliamentary question. However, we have inauguration that practice ourselves and it is simply bad. What I think of HDZ, we said it in the election. In the election, our list was the only one with 9 HDZ won in one election unit, but I doubt that the current morning, in the morning, would look different and that one, and that today's opposition would be in power. So it even seems to me the most logical thing, that proposal proposed by Mr. Racan, let's divide the number of representatives, let's say, by 4. We'll come up with some 38 options to ask a representative question. Let us take the opportunity of both independents and thus simply resolve this painful situation for the next morning. Everyone's happy and over.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7275	Okay. On behalf of the HSS Club, respected representative Ljubica Lalic. A colleague, when, this is not a special topic, colleague Jurjevic. It is not usual to give corrections to incorrect allegations. If you insist. Here you go, colleague Lalic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7276	I thank you, Mr. President of the Parliament, colleagues and fellow MPs. Well, here we are in an unnecessarily unnecessarily painful situation. This situation has been unnecessary, not for the first time today, but has begun to be involved as a practice, and it is unnecessary because we, who have passed the laws, have not respected and respected what we ourselves have prescribed. Col. Rožić clearly and loudly quoted article 180. The Rules of Procedure, paragraph 3 which regulates the order of the list to ask parliamentary questions. I agree with all those who have so far said that there have been injuries to the Rules of Procedure before, and there have been injuries to the Rules of Procedure in that sense that from 12 hours or 00 hours of the day when the session of the Parliament begins to be held and the list is being made. However, it never happened that the list took place the day before the session of the Parliament's session. That's how this Parliament can't work. In such a way, MPs who do not know how to form a list for that session cannot ask questions. In this way, the meaning of the General Institution is played out to ask parliamentary questions and current mornings. After all, we need to find a solution for this session today. That solution can probably not be for any future session. However, the solution is in a way, so that the amendments to the Rules of Procedure, however, are rather skeptical, we can change it. However, if we remain consistent with our practice, then the Rules of Procedure will not be respected and we will not have a certain way of asking questions again. We suggest this, this list cannot be accepted at all. and we therefore propose that for today, this list, which has been announced, be given the opportunity to ask all clubs questions in a way that asks one question from each club, and from another club, by giving priority to opposition parties. And when the circle of order is over, the second circle goes again, so one plus one plus one. In such a way, we may come to a satisfying solution or as much just solution. Accepting this list, which is before us, is a completely unfair solution, completely out of business solution, that is a solution that would now be quietly accepted means practice, and such practice is completely contrary to the meaning of the current morning. I would just remind myself that the Rules of Procedure say that order is determined on the basis of enrolment in a book of presence that must be placed two hours before the session. And now it's interesting, this morning at 7.10, none of the MPs were present, and the list was already out of 42. She's already been a list of 42 MPs, and she's saying something, especially if it's the right information that there are those who willingly and voluntarily say this one can be on the list and if he's not present, and this one can't. Such practice will not be accepted by the Croatian Peasant Party Club. and we are proposing this proposal that I have made and about this observation. Mr. President, I don't know if you heard me about the marbles.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7277	I'm not sorry, I didn't hear you because of the jam. If you'd be so kind, please, please, you'll be a colleague of Lalić's kind and repeat your suggestions. I couldn't hear them because of the jam.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7278	That's exactly what I was thinking, but it's an integral part of Parliament's life, of course it's made of jam... We have therefore suggested that the advantage be given to the opposition clubs, that from each club one representative each, and thus in a circle until we run time and this proposal we ask for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7279	Okay. Now, on behalf of the HNS Club, I am a respected representative of Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7280	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. Today, the current morning was spoken of as a play show, so the expressions of the circus were used. For us at the HNS Club, PGS current mornings and wishes, as well as the obligation of parliamentary representatives to forward questions to the citizens of the government is neither a play, nor a theatre nor a circus, but the way the questions were being asked was really more like theater and circus than parliament. According to the Rules of Procedure, representatives are required to enter the book 2 hours before the start of work, so this morning at 7.30 a.m. should be started. Because there are growing numbers of questions and candidates to ask questions about the dispatch and will of government members to give an answer, these entries started at 3:00 in the morning, then at one o'clock, and last time at 20 o'clock a day before, that list of illegal or legal ones would have been made by noon yesterday. But it is interesting that some MPs who have always been on these lists for years in this House and however dissatisfaction with opposition or by ruling they have accepted this model, because they have always managed to sign in and often even in other people's places on those lists without respecting the order they themselves have spoken from these illegal lists in the book. I don't want to talk about names now. I think even those who spoke before know who I mean. And then everything was fine. When they first turned out to be able to ask questions, then that night in the hallway in front of this hall they performed comedy and tragedy and suddenly the Rules of Procedure was not good for them either. I mentioned earlier that the Bureau of Parliament established on January 26th this year and concluded that the Rules of Procedure should be amended in that section. The Committee for the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system as a parent working body has been tasked with drawing up a proposal. The committee called on clubs to make proposals, and today I heard that other clubs have also submitted different proposals on how to regulate it in the Rules of Procedure, which is good because from a number of proposals we will probably eventually adopt the one who will be the best, for example. We have made a proposal as one of the possible arrangements of the current morning. That the current morning lasts 40 questions, so to ask 40 questions, every 14 days, that the quota of the issue is shared between the opposition and the ruling in relation to 60:40 in favour of the opposition, and that the number of questions per club depends on the number of representatives in the club. Had this been taken into consideration, they would likely have approached many of the suggestions that have already been made here today. I want to believe that after this incident situation, the Committee on the Constitution will put on the agenda possible solutions and that until the next session, the amendment will be completed and on the agenda of the Assembly session. So if we need to discuss it twice and three times, but the rules need to be changed and determined. This Rules of Procedure enables us to ask written questions to government members. I must tell you that until now I have never run or insisted on asking oral questions, and I have used the maximum right and the possibility of giving written form questions to ministers. Because my goal was to get an answer, because my questions were the result of what the citizens were looking for, and it's important that a man organization or an association whose interest is given an answer, whether for this speaker, was written. I remember the beginning of this Parliament's work and the promise, particularly Mr Sanader, as prime minister, that all questions will be answered in traffic, precisely what is required. I have to say that the biggest part of the initiative I've been sending to the Ministers has not been given any answers. And the ones I got, I could hardly call the answers to the parliamentary questions. I, for example, ask Minister Primorac if, from the next school year, 2004 and 05, blind children will be allowed to obtain books on Bray's letter. An answer on a page and a half not a word yes or no. I'm asking Minister Hebrang, and I'm asking, after his statements about the sinking of 11 contracts, I'm not asking anything, I'm just commenting on the answers, if I abuse, I'll get a warning, what are you worried about? Okay, fine. Given the situation we're opposed to... This morning, either tonight or yesterday, it will be worth it, and we suggest that a representative be held this afternoon in a way that each club should ask three representatives one question. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7281	Let me write this down carefully, because there are really very different suggestions. On behalf of the HSLS and DC Club, the Honorable Vice-President, Durdja Adlesic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7282	Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues, everyone has so far shown great concern for the citizens who want to listen to the current clock, have the opportunity to hear answers to the questions of MPs and we, as irresponsible advocates, have all given them the opportunity to discuss again which one of us is more or less right. So we'd better figure out how to get out of this today, because it looks like by 13 o'clock we're only gonna talk about how we're doing, and by doing that, we're all going to break this House's dignity together. I think we're all together. The fact is that issues in the current hour are a legitimate opportunity for promotion of both political parties and MPs, and then the debate on the current clock is clearly used for the same purposes. But by saying that the current clock today is a farce, I really must say, maybe we could agree that this is a farce, but it's a farce that goes on below. To me, this is the 3rd term and the 3rd term of the farce looks similar, if it's a farce. Every time it comes at night, around midnight. What my colleague Rosic says is that we can share memories together. I was wearing coffee, the makers were wearing pastries, and so we waited for the morning. And now those to whom it was at that time respond to the same thing have objected. But, well, maybe it's called "later sense." Now it seems like we all see that this is not a good way. So let's deal with one single possible solution, and that's a change of rules of procedure. But on behalf of the HSLS and DC Club, given the proposals that have been made here so far, I think we need to get an answer as to whether a new list of questions can be drawn up now. Can this proposal really be applied now, we give up all those who are enrolled and we create a new list. When we get to the farce, let me just go back a few years or less, for which everything used the current clock today. According to which agent was reporting, often times and check the statistics it can prove exactly what minister had the chance to promote himself. Those were ordered questions. That is really not new to this term of office. Ordered questions. Look, you'll have a model by which the same representative always asks the same minister or to be faster than the opposition to give him a chance to promote or to get him out of something that someone else could later turn into a much more unpleasant encounter. So the proposal is to change the Rules of Procedure by the next session. Our proposal is that it be one day for questions, let it be Tuesday, so as many questions are asked, so many answers, everyone has a chance to ask. We at the HSLS Club and DC, which is a small club, don't mind agreeing on certain quotas. But if this were to happen, we might be able to come up with some good idea already once we agree together how to change the Rules of Procedure and break this practice, while we are in charge of this Rules of Procedure, as soon as we go to the opposition, we find that the Rules of Procedure is no good. It seems to me that we've already received a parliamentary debate about the current clock. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7283	On behalf of the HDZ Club, Honored Vice-President Luka Bebic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7284	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Let's start from the last time it was the current clock, there were 40 questions, and that was the record in this House so far that it's asked 40 straight questions. Of these, 6 questions were first asked by the opposition, i.e. the SDP because they had arrived first to form a list, unlike yesterday when the first ones arrived, but the ladies were late for the first ones who tried to do so, so now they created this problem. If they were first, there wouldn't be a problem. What we're investigating and who we want to impute is something that hasn't been seen in this House during the past four years. And this Rules of Procedure has been brought in, brought in over the past four years, probably as Mrs Adlesic said was responding then no longer responding. And these suggestions here are very good. I particularly like the proposals that talk about three or four MPs one question, so bpo would be about one 35-40 questions that could have been asked which could be an optimal amount of questions because any further question or I don't know 60 or 70 questions that would have been asked would have lost public interest in such inflation issues. So, and this suggestion of the first opposition, me, it might be good and so on, but I'm surprised Mrs. Adlesic didn't think of it before the opposition was another party. Four years ago, for example. Mrs. Lalic could have, also suggested this question, we would have certainly accepted it. Here. It was in the previous assembly of parliament that it had never answered individual parliamentary questions. For example, counterpart Jarnjak asked a question about the purchase of fire trucks from the government, the Prime Minister, I don't know who, so he didn't get an answer to that question until today. So we didn't bring anything out here in such a dramatic way that it hasn't happened before. Only the speed was a reason because the ladies two from the SDP came in about 14, 16 hours, but some others came in a few minutes ago. The last time the SDP ladies came before, they were first, first six. You can check that out. But it's not my intention to investigate it now, etc., who, when it came, who wrote it, but just, let's say, 40 questions from the opposition were 18, I tried to count them. Maybe, it should be 22 out of opposition and 18 out of this one, but it's not some big difference. Nothing has happened dramatically that we haven't seen before. And I don't know why we lost here, two hours about this. I suggested not half an hour, not half an hour to clubs, but 10 minutes because this was all known before, so we didn't have to spend half an hour because we could spend it half an hour on parliamentary issues. What might be good is to respond to clubs by calling the Committee on the Constitution, the political system and the Rules of Procedure and to propose their views on how to resolve this problem. The letter sent by the Committee president was February 5th, which would mean that there are 40 days that the issue was addressed, so some clubs delivered their answers and opinions, and some have not yet. So, uh, we could go, but how come someone comes first? And this time it's not the first HDZ, it's the first one, among the four are the first two HSPs. And that's the first gentleman, and that's the first Mr. Kovacevic. Well, I don't know, I mean when we're talking about who first, who second, who came and so forth then here I'm going to say among this first page 17 there's 6 from opposition parties, from, out of HDZ, let's not say because there's a colleague, uh, among them is a colleague, uh, Loncar, right. Well, he's often a strong opposition, stronger than many others who think they're opposition. My suggestion would be to conclude, uh, my proposal would be next. [[Applause]] So far, practice has shown that it is possible to ask between 30 and 40 questions. To find such a model that every club and one that counts only three members can ask one question, and that the censorship, but the number that would be shared by this, how many questions are asked by individual clubs to be divided by 4 so that, let's say, the HDZ and the SDP are relatively less likely to ask questions than some club that only has three members or solve the issue of independent MPs that would get an opportunity, uh, every other time to ask a question. So there's a model, there's options. To finally overcome the current, uh, current situation, I suggest that, to meet clubs and include 5.6 questions about how much time and colleagues from the SDP would be left now so that they don't think that we in any way want to be amongst the first, to include 5.6 colleagues from the SDP, so that they also ask the question and that this situation prevails for the time being. Otherwise, the Rules of Procedure, eliminating the list, eliminating the book for asking questions is a violation of the Rules of Procedure. We also need to know that, so if we want to change the Rules of Procedure, we can. If we want to get out of this situation, we can get clubs to agree that colleagues from the SDP still ask one, one group or one, one number of questions. Thank you. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7285	My colleagues and colleagues, a few explanations just about this topic we're discussing today. This Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, which we are now discussing, was adopted on 30 June 2000. He suffered in this section concerning “Current morning” or parliamentary issues, he suffered two changes. One amendment was made on 14 December 2001, where it was found that the order for asking questions was determined according to the order in which the representatives entered the book of attendance at the session to be opened, was held by the official on the first day of the meeting two hours before the start of the session in front of the Grand Council and some procedural issues were still resolved regarding the actual setting itself, on “The current morning”. And another amendment was April 17, 2002, where only it was stated that the representative could express satisfaction or dissatisfaction by giving reasons for a minute. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament were also precisely resolved in articles 180, 180 and further oral issues. But what life has shown is true in the previous assembly of Parliaments. If those solutions were to be entered into a book that opens two hours before the session date, it showed that it could not work because if the session starts at half past ten, that book would open at half past eight, where MPs would sign up to create an indescribable procession, crowd. That's why it resorted to the practice of putting together certain lists the day before, that the MPs would sign up and then again to the representatives after, around midnight, how to re-enter at what time, and then to be present from that list but at the time of, from the opening of the book, it was our reality that was not clearly good. On January 26th this year, the Bureau of Parliament extended itself with the club presidents to discuss how and how, in the face of the first practical session at which, it was “the current morning” to avoid this truly unworthy situation in which we all found ourselves together, in which the Croatian Parliament and all MPs found themselves in how to find a democratic solution for MPs to be in a position to ask parliamentary questions, to get an answer to them, to respect the constitutional provision that says that each MP has the right to ask a representative question, to get an answer. At that extended session of the Bureau with club presidents, we were unable to find a solution because there were very precise and clear business provisions that, which are regulated by the consensually extended Presidency with the club presidents agreed and agreed to approach the political agreement on the amendment and addition of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament and to find the best solutions regarding the maintenance of the "Current morning" mainly in connection with the application of MPs for asked questions. That conclusion of the extended presidency was addressed to the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system and all the clubs of the representatives on 27 January. I remind you that according to Article 57. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System: 1 follows the implementation of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament and 2 proposes to adopt and amend the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. On 5 February this year, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the Political System submitted a letter to all the clubs in the Croatian Parliament calling for all the club representatives to be invited within 15 days of 5 February of this year. Delivery to the Committee as a home working body of its proposals for the exchange and addition of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament and, in particular, to the areas mentioned in the position of the Presidency of the Croatian Parliament. This invitation by the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system was answered by the club of HSP MPs, who overcame its solutions and proposals on February 2nd, how to resolve the current before noon, and spoke of the respected representative Rožić on behalf of the HSP Club with very precise proposals for a solution in which to do so. On February 25th, the Croatian Old People's Club of Representatives also submitted its proposals to resolve the issue of the current hour of parliamentary issues. On February 20th, the Club of Representatives of the Libre also delivered its proposals very concretely, which today was spoken by respected representative William Herman. 19.02. The club of HNS and PGS representatives submitted its proposals on this topic, which today was discussed by the respected representative Dragutin Lesar. On February 10th, the President of the Tourism Committee, Honored Representative Ante Markov, also delivered an incentive to supplement the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament on behalf of the Committee on Tourism but this concerned another topic. The other clubs did not respond, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system which, according to the Rules of Procedure, the parent body alone and the authorised and the obligation to propose, according to Article 57 of the Rules of Procedure, that MPs can do so clearly. But it is a parent ardent body which is required to monitor the application of the Rules of Procedure and to propose an alternative and addition of the Rules of Procedure. We have now found ourselves in the situation that it has been a practice that has been applied all along since the adoption of the Rules of Procedure which has shown its numerous shortcomings which are neither a small representative nor a Croatian Parliament, has once again proved to be once again proposed by the old clubs are different solutions as long-term as it would find its way out today athok, for this situation. We have all heard these solutions, these proposals for a solution to find the outcome of a compromise, one democratic parliamentary solution for today's current morning. Jabih before that and said that it is obvious that Mr Bošnjaković is the will of the Croatian Parliament of all clubs and all MPs to prepare for the next session of the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the Political System on the basis of the agreement of all political parties of parliamentary parties, and this can most effectively be achieved in a way that you can appoint as chairman of the Committee in accordance with your powers and Rules of Procedure a working group composed of representatives of all parliamentary clubs and those representatives to include those representatives who do not have clubs. To set a deadline for this group and to prepare and draft the draft Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament for the next session of the Croatian Parliament. That this group is formed as soon as possible, so that clubs and working bodies can discuss it. And so that at the next session, so at the end of this month, in the second half of April, we could bring that Rules of Procedure. If you allow me to work on a specific issue that implies the relationship of both the Croatian Parliament and the Government, I would ask the Prime Minister to allow the Prime Minister to state his position, which is also for resolution, the Prime Minister pardons, to address this athok situation that has come up today. Mr. Prime Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7286	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I won't take much time just in the future that most of this was about the government because the topic is that parliamentary deputies are asking questions to the government. I'd like to say on behalf of my government that we're extremely uncomfortable sitting here for two hours and we haven't come to a solution. What we also hold that the current predicate is certainly one of the mechanisms of instruments that are absolutely interested in Croatian citizens and the Croatian public. And it's out of the question of behavior as far as we're concerned, so we'd be obstructing the current morning in any way. So we're ready to answer any question of any agent. And we're not going to interfere in any way with the inter-party agreement, but I can say as tomorrow's representative and the president of the strongest party that we weren't satisfied with, as you were with that practice both yesterday and four years ago. And I join those who say that some forget very easily, which was up to 3.4 months ago. Therefore, if the Rules of Procedure is valid until we are not going in, I will support the president of the Club as the party's strongest party in the Parliament to support the interparty agreement. Even this morning, I will not waste any more time on this matter, but as far as I am concerned as the Prime Minister, I am at my disposal as all the ministers here answer to the Croatian public any questions that are of interest to the public. But as party president, I insist that two terms of office cannot be measured... As long as there is a Rules of Procedure there is a Rules of Procedure when we change it will be different.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7287	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm about to set a break by 12:00, and I'm asking that the presidents of the clubs be presently presently. In this hall which is there and that according to those proposals from clubs and SDPs and HNS and LIBRE and others to try to find one compromise solution about changing the athok of this list. I set a 12-story break and then I ask that the club president, on behalf of the ruling coalition's parties, present his proposals briefly together with the president of a party club. It's 12 o'clock. It's a session session. Ladies and gentlemen, let's get back to work. I ask Mr. Luka Bebić, vice president of the House and club president who was at this meeting of club presidents to present the result of the agreement. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7289	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Like this, we had the opportunity to quickly agree to overcome the current situation. This isn't a precedent for future arrangements. This is just the way out of this current situation, and this is how it's done. We've estimated, although we can't assume that for sure, but at least we've estimated that, given the delay in time, we could ask about 25 questions today. Of these 25 questions HDZ will ask 11, and opposition 14, with the order of questions that are here, we did not say it precisely, but I think the fellow who applied, Ivo Loncar, gets it, so comes in order. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7290	Thank you very much. Let's go with that now, then. Please. Comrade Lonchar, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7291	Mr. President, this is a violation of the Rules of Procedure, Article 180(3). I'll read it now. Either we change the Rules of Procedure or we stick to the Rules of Procedure. Paragraph 3 states: "The order for asking questions is determined according to the order in which MPs are enrolled in the Book of Attending session. The book of attendance opens the session by an official on the first day of the meeting two hours before the beginning of the session, in front of the Grand Council." We can't go to this, I don't want any gift. I was here yesterday since 5:00 p.m. Also, the last time the party introduced that practice, they were at half-six and at 17 and 30, respectively. I came in at 11:00 tonight, they said no, let's respect that. I left, but now I can't agree to this. I don't need anyone to give anything, stick to the book, the book is a credible document. And that the party has to be comfortable, so I guess it's past that time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7292	Thank you very much. I'll get to know the Constitution Committee that's handling it. Please, let's go with, the deal is made, let's go with the order. My colleague Antunović, come in. Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7293	Mr. President, there has been a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Article 187 concerning the regulation of the law and the obligation to issue written parliamentary questions. I, in fact, posted February 6th...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7294	My colleagues, I'm sorry, I'm going to report this after the Rules of Procedure, which the government has not answered, precisely which one. So it goes.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7295	Allow me, I've raised a plate for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, to say very briefly what I want to say.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7296	And what's the Rules of Procedure's hurt? What provision and from whom?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7297	So let me explain what he's hurt about. What are you gonna say in the end? I'll probably be glad to hear it, but let me...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7298	Here you go. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7299	... I'll report on the part where the Rules of Procedure was injured. On February 6th, I asked a written parliamentary question to the prime minister precisely in order not to participate in this which is a problem in oral parliamentary issues. All deadlines have passed, and I have addressed you, too, Mr President, by calling for Article 186 which you are obliged to intervene in the injury, in the course of overcoming the term of response to the parliamentary question, and I have not received either from you nor from the Government any response nor has anyone requested an extension of the deadline of responsibility. I say this as a violation of the Rules of Procedure because this is one example, unfortunately, only one, could be said of another, in which we ignore, ignore the rights and responsibilities of our representatives. It makes it impossible for us to get and have normal communication so that we can work and decide, which is our first and priority responsibility in this House. We're also obliged to oversee law enforcement. My question concerns a violation of the law, i.e. ignoring the law, and therefore, because of this experience, and because of many other experiences where we, as advocates, feel like air, protesting and demanding that there is no such breach of the Rules of Procedure in the future.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7300	My colleague Antunovic, I was just telling you when you started telling me that in order of things comes a notice from the President of the Parliament on parliamentary issues that have not been answered. In particular, you asked a parliamentary question on February 6th of this year. On February 10th, I addressed, according to the Rules of Procedure, to the Government, a parliamentary question, warning that the answer should be delivered within 30 days of the matter being delivered and sent and sent to the 17th haste. You wrote to me on March 15th, I sent a rush on March 17th. But this is the turn that the report on which questions the government has not answered within the prescribed time limit after this current part of the morning. So I'm gonna go along with that, and I'm gonna take it out. And now, please, let's go do this part of the job. Please. Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7301	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, I would like to say that the answer to Agent Antunovic's question will come during the session. And in many ways, we will correct the practice of the past government, which did not answer MPs' questions after 6.7 months, and on the parliamentary issue of MP Loncar, with regard to the judicial verdict of one of the ministries' assistant ministers, did not answer the entire mandate. We're not gonna act like that. Your answer will be during this session, this session.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7365	Thank you very much. Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's The parliamentary question, Mr. Representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7366	Ladies and gentlemen, since the Prime Minister has said he will withdraw his signature from the opinion of the predecessor of Ivica Racan on our Defence Act, we are going to go to another topic. The Croatian media released data and information that POA showed several Croatian journalists that they were in the function of foreign intelligence services and placed in the media disinformation, and all in the service at the expense of Croatia, in the case of General Gotovina. Namely, the media says this is about Davor Butkovic, Gordan Malic, Ivan Djikic, Željko Peratovic, Boris Pavelic and Ivan Zvonimir Čičko. If this is indeed true and if this is true, do I ask the Prime Minister if he believes that in this case our services have misused their authority and went to harm the freedom of the media, or is this a finding of a purely criminal act of knowing misinformation of the Croatian public, or even of high treason? Please give me the exact answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7367	You will get a very precise answer, Mr. Representative, but first I will refer to that first part of your question because you quoted one of our conversations before the beginning of this session that I, which the public knows nothing about, so you said that I would withdraw some signature from some text that did not sign Racan. Since you warned me that, to clarify only that there would be no misunderstanding left in public, if you had warned me that on your inquiry the Ministry of Defence, or the Government sent a similar text that the previous Government had sent to your signature, I said that I would personally look at it, that we would withdraw while we see what it was, is it the same text, is it the same position, because I am personally not more familiar with it. Just so the public knows what this is about. Secondly, about these speculations in the public that occurred after the shift, or after the transfer request, for the resolution of the former director of POA and the appointment of the new director of POA, which happened, therefore, all in accordance with the Security Services Act, there have been various speculations in the media. I, perhaps two months ago when I gave one of my interviews, when I said that I was not satisfied with the work of some security services and that, as far as I'm concerned, I would propose amendments and additions to the Security Services Act, to help, that perhaps such speculations about the reasons for which the former director of POA resigned, or to request a resolution, might be speculative there. The fact is, these speculations that are written in public, the Government has no knowledge whatsoever, and we are certainly very interested in whether this is true.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7368	Here you go, Mr. Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7369	I am not satisfied with the fact that the government is to receive reports from all secret services every week.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7370	Dear representative Zdenka Babic-Petricevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7371	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Minister Zuzul. For a few weeks, we have been separated from one date on our way to the European Union. What would the Croatian government do to make the expected avis of the European Union positive? Avis, yes. and, in particular, what are you doing towards countries that have not yet ratified the Stabilisation and Association Agreement? and are these three ratifications necessary to obtain a positive Avi?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7372	I thank you for asking, Mr. President. The Croatian government has joined the European Union as a strategic priority for the Croatian state since the start of its mandate, has done a number of activities. Within these activities, the prime minister met with 13 prime ministers of the member states... And 11 of those who have an impact on that. [[speaks off, can't be heard]] So you're doing a very intense activity where you get me support so you can achieve your goal. We are parallel to intensive talks with the European Commission in a measure that we can also be on the basis of the information we have, which is reliable in the final phase of making Avia, and we can be expected to get it within the planned deadline, announced by the deadline, means within a few weeks from now. As for the three countries that have not ratified the Stabilisation and Association Agreement between Croatia and the European Union, there are three somewhat different cases. The case with Italy is related to a number of issues, and the case with the Netherlands and Great Britain is exclusively on the issue of co-operation with The Hague tribunal. The Netherlands is not about ratification, but only about notification, so the government needs to confirm by its signature what Parliament has already ratified. With Italy and the media, there was a lot of speculation, I would just like to point out that we have really intense communications the prime minister met with Prime Minister Berlusconi, I met with Foreign Minister Frattini several times, even during this weekend we had phone conversations and State Secretary Mr. Bištevic met several times with the Italian Secretary of State. We have reason to believe that he will soon be ratified in the Italian Parliament. It's objectively what I'm not sure at this point when ratification will happen in the UK Parlamett. However, and there we had very intense communication, and I met with several British government ministers, I had a speech at House of Lords, the president of the Croatian government received a call from Prime Minister Blair for a meeting that will take place sometime this year. And I believe that's where we're going in a positive direction. I can clearly and accurately answer that ratifications are not a condition for getting Avia. Moreover, I believe this is, of course, predicting that Avi will happen before all ratifications happen. Ratifications do not even have to be a prerequisite for a Council of Europe decision. But let's be realistic, they are the same political factors that vote in Brussels, of course, in their capitals, so that the issue of ratification remains one of Croatia's top priorities.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7373	Honorable representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7374	Your Honor, Mr. President, gentlemen of the government. I want to ask Mr. Hebrang. Namely, we have information from the media that the Ministry intends to issue 533 million kuna bonds for the settlement of debts of state hospitals and that I do not quote all, 70 million kunas for the Split Hospital, 65 for KBC Zagreb, 54 for the Mercy Sisters, etc. The debts of county hospitals in areas of special state care should also be added here, so Vukovar, Knin, Gospić, Pakrac, Otocac, Gospić. They were left out, however, of county hospitals, for example, in Pula. And the question is, why? What are those county ones for? Well, they're simply in the county without the law. Who could have turned them down, I don't know, '96, '97? The County of Istria for this year has a budget of 180 million kuna as long as it needs at the annual level and general hospital in Pula. In the County of Istria, 99 people work in the General Hospital of Pula, 1150 people. And this policy, in my opinion, leads to a mother, a stepmother, not only to the collapse of hospitals, but eventually to the county itself. As I don't know, hospitals can be county hospitals, when counties can't even affect systematisation, I don't know, hospitals can't affect budgets, wages can't be affected, collective agreements can't affect, decentralised funds can't affect etc. Therefore, I ask the Government, will the Government of the Republic of Croatia settle as well as for clinical hospitals, hospital centres and the losses of the county hospitals?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7375	Thank you very much, Mr. Representative, unfortunately, this question is addressed to the wrong address. Personally, I don't agree with the government's only rehabilitating hospitals owned by the state. But I was forced to follow the laws of the Croatian state. Last year, the government adopted the Health and Health Insurance Act in July, and the article 108 said, "the debt of county hospitals is borne by the founder, so County". Therefore, I must not sign any payment order for any debt to County hospitals. I repeat, I disagree, because I believe that decentralisation is harmful to health care, but that decentralisation is defined in a law that I must respect.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7376	A colleague of Caine's.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7377	Of course I'm not happy with this answer. Because every decision, every law, if I'm not mistaken, can change into some legal initiative. I don't know what to say here. Give us back the S.I.S. gentlemen, so that the resources that come true in certain areas and then no problem, I know that the Pula Hospital will also have surpluses. But I remind you once again, the county can't affect except the administration, nor the systematization, nor the hospital's budget, nor the wages, nor the collective contracts, anything. County Istrian said there are 99 employees, 1150 of them working at the general hospital. The budget of the county that per capita has the highest income is 180 million kuna. And that's how much he's coming or needs.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7378	Comrade Cain, I ask you to express your satisfaction or dissatisfaction just like all the MPs with the presentation of reasons per minute. Please, colleagues and colleagues.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7379	And for starters, we should be competing HZO to...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7380	Dear representative Danira Nakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7381	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I refer my question to the Minister of Science, Education and Sports, Mr. Primorac. I'm curious to know what he's done about settlement of debts to Santa Clauses, jubilee awards, payments of diaries to employees of the science and higher education system?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7382	Thank you to my dear colleague Daniri Bilic-Nuckic, I apologize.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7383	Thank you, well-respected representative, for your question. In fact, today is one hand and it is a pleasure to say that after the period since this government was actually launched, since I took over the role of minister, it has in fact solved most of the issue that you said, namely, the pure genealogy of the government of the Republic of Croatia and the independent union of science and higher education since 19 December 2003, was actually governed by the agreement by mutual rights and obligations relating to the collective contract, and they were related to the payment of Christmases, jubilee awards and some remains. That process was pretty intense, I'd say in one hand painful. Because the money for it wasn't approved and he didn't exist. Through the talks we had with Mr. President of the Ribic Union, we made an agreement, which went to sign yesterday. And what's particularly important to say is that the union also reacted very maturely, because there was an amount of about 5,000 kuna in that agreement that wasn't determined whether it was gross or net. And we're intensive through our conversation, I'd say one 15 times managed to get to the final net amount of three thousand and 500 kuna, which is ultimately an important amount of about 25 million kuna, but that's why we found ways along with the Ministry of Finance and from my portfolio to support. I think this is a very significant precedent, and it also showed one cultural communication between the unions and my ministry. And I repeat, yesterday the whole proposal went to the signing and I think it's an optimal solution. And according to Mr. Ribic, he is more than extremely pleased.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7384	My colleague Bilic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7385	I'm happy, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7386	Just a brief addition to what the Minister of Science said, since it's not just about this union that's in his portfolio, but also about a number of others. I have to say that we found a situation, I don't know what the reasons were, probably the economic nature of which the past government did not meet the obligations of collective agreements, so we found the situation not only in this portfolio but also in the Ministry of Interior, Justice, etc. And last week, we had a meeting with the unions, agreed that within a time frame, quite appropriate, in all the halls, with cooperation with the unions, there were final figures, to see what was in a certain portfolio, which is not respected by the last government. We will try this, despite the very difficult situation, together with the unions, to come up with a settlement, not only means in the resources of science but also from other resistors. But I repeat, I appeal to everyone that the situation is very difficult and that I understand also the reasons why it may have been partially unfulfilled in the past, but there is an obligation to fulfill these items from collective agreements and we will work together with the unions.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7387	Dear representative Milanka Opačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7388	I'm asking the Prime Minister of Government Mr. Eve Sanader. In fact, Mercury Hospital has developed an extremely successful liver transplant program, lizards and kidneys in recent years. The only member of the expert council who opposed the development of a transplant in that hospital was today's health minister, Mr. Andrija Hebrang. Minister Hebrang in the rematch campaign is forming on the shift of the director of Mercury Hospital Doctor... Martinca. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] If the director of Mercury Hospital succeeds... Martinca, if it succeeds in its intention, Croatia will lose an extremely valuable transplant program that HZZO costs five times less than to pay for liver transplants abroad. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] If HZZO does not have money for expensive external operations, patients who need a new liver will die in Croatia. Mr. Prime Minister, my question for this is to you, how long do you intend to tolerate the behavior of Minister Hebrang?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7389	Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7390	Not only do I intend to tolerate it, but I encourage it to work that will be in the direction of correcting all the negativity that happened during your health term. So respect for the law and nothing else. We are these days, and thank you, Madam Representatives, for this question, these days we have witnessed that in the Croatian public trying to force the issue of how Minister Hebrang conducts clean-ups in health care. I will ask, I will ask, and now I will, and will come of course to Mercury Hospital but this is certainly part of the entire campaign, I will ask and ask Minister Hebrang to give us one analysis of how many directors were replaced at the beginning of 2000 and how many directors were replaced at the same time this third month, here, today is exactly three months that this government since 23 December when it received confirmation in the Croatian Assembly that we are on duty. So we see here, I think in these three months, two, zero, zero, no director has been replaced, and in the first three months of your government, I think about 40th, but in order to avoid raving, we're going to look for accurate analysis and exact figures. Therefore, and when it comes to KBC Rebro and when it comes to Mercury Hospital, Minister Hebrang will comply with the law and the law is very clear there. If someone goes into debt and if someone enters some investment, if someone makes such debts as some principals do, then the law requires a withdrawal. And that's all we're looking for. Otherwise, I personally hold, and I will say it very openly that Mr. Martinac is an extremely good doctor, has a good reputation in the Croatian public and I know that he has a good reputation, but I repeat once again, as Prime Minister, I cannot ask for anything else from any minister but to respect the laws.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7391	Comrade Opacic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7392	I am, of course, dissatisfied with this answer, but I really support that you give us a complete analysis, primarily because I think that's the only way we can disprove all the untruths that come out of your ranks, so here we are now able to hear the truth about the director's shifts. So we support finally putting numbers and evidence here, so let's see what she's done and what the former government has done and what the current government is doing.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7393	Honorable representative of Ivica Clem.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7394	Mr. President, I'm asking the question of the Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy, Mr. Peter Cobankovic. Since the spring sowing is already under way, I am also interested as an agent and I am obliged to ask this question and ask when the second part of the incentive will be paid, can you answer me correctly and accurately?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7395	Minister Cobankovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7396	Thank you, Mr. President, Mr. Representative, here I am going to try to answer you just as much as the question is brief, but I think it's also extremely important. As a minister and a complete ministry of agriculture, forestry and the water economy, it is clear that the money for incentives should be paid as soon as possible, we understand the situation of Croatian agriculture, we understand the situation of people dealing with agriculture. But I have to say again, unfortunately, it's part of the legacy that welcomed us at the ministry. For reasons that were due to temporary financing, we have paid the estimated amount of money that was provided for in the Ministry of Agriculture for the items of incentives and support, so that's about somewhere cca. 240 or almost nearly 250 million kunas because we made some redistributions inside, within the department's division. After the budget is adopted, we make maximum efforts together with the Ministry of Finance, and so far, since the budget has been passed and implemented, we have taken advantage of cca somewhere. 150 million kuna. In this week, we are intensively continuing to pay off the incentives, but I must stress that we are making payments to the incentives as the basis of the 2003 spring crop culture, that we have also paid one month of milk, that we are paying for the tobacco incentives, that we have to pay the incentives for fishing, and that we will continue with what you said, in the other part in those counties where 50% of the incentives for spring seed crops are paid. By and on the basis of the agreement with the Ministry of Finance, we expect to be able to withdraw all the money by the end of the 3rd month or in the first week of the 4th month. I'd like to remind you that this means that in the first, first three months, the total or better said in the first quarter will be based on incentives paid somewhere close to cca. 900 million kuna. What is it that when we analyze previous years, not a single year in the first quarter has ever been paid so much for incentives and support in agriculture.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7397	Agent Clem, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7398	Thank you. I'm happy with the answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7399	Thank you. Honorable representative of Slaven Letica.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7400	First of all, I would like to express my regret that the President of the Parliament has allowed the procedure to be violated in relation to the order of entry in the book. It's the first time I've known it, in the history of this Parliament. I would like to ask my question to the Prime Minister, and as for the memo I sent you on March 9th, I understand that you are too busy, you travel a lot, so I'm practically following your journeys like I used to on a seafaring show for Croatian ships. Sanader in Brussels, Zuzul in Jerusalem and Mesic in Aman. My question concerns an idea that, I think you have received my letter in which I suggest you establish a multidisciplinary expert team that would create a white book on “Blash” and “Storm”. It is a major precedent that the late President Tudjman is charged with the indictment of General Markac and Cermak for the creation of a criminal enterprise unknown in the UN tribunal's statute. The charge is, as Professor Damascus of Yale University says, although legally possible ethically highly doubtful. Following the almost morbid practice of accusing the dead people even appears in Mr. Seks's new interview list where he says the late president is alive to advise him to go to The Hague which is absolutely unimaginable to me that such advice could be reported. So, Mr. President, I wonder if the government has already done anything in this regard. I have proposed some concrete people, or if the government will not be able to do so because of overwork, then the HSP debt would assume obligations to make this work.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7401	Thank you very much. When you're apostropheisting me, when you're apostropheping me, that's what the answer is. I did not offer to be an adviser to Slobodan Milosevic like you. Go ahead, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7402	I am not going to replicate to the Honorable representative of Letica by calling on his emphasis on self-promotion, but I will say that I received your letter but it came after my publicly presented initiative that the Government will respond in an appropriate way when we assess how the government will be able to intervene and that we will manage to preserve the truth about the Homeland War. That was my first public initiative. In the meantime, I got your letter, and I'm in the session, and I'm going to say it now to the public president of the parliamentary parties on Monday, three, three weeks ago, I said I'm calling on everyone who has any way of ambition or knowledge to contribute to the work of this team that the government is building up among which we contacted Professor Damascus, whom you are proposing. It means respected experts who can really help us. Otherwise, our government, not this government in this system, but the government of 1997, in which our party had a very good performance as in, in the capacity of the "amica leakae" when we hired foreign experts in that famous case of Supena when he was invited by the defence minister and some other officials under threat of punishment to come. We won that legal battle at the time with some of the experts that you suggest were amongst them. If you have personal ambition and give up counseling, I am absolutely open to you on that team.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7403	Here you go, Mr. Letica.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7404	It is surprising that the President of the Parliament and you and the Prime Minister have joined in using great Serbian propaganda as some truth in this high house. I'm sorry, I could have expected that from Mr. Shakespeare. I didn't expect that from you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7405	So you're not satisfied, satisfied, and then you settle in another way. Honored representativeplatimir Puljic
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7406	I refer the question to the Minister of the Sea, Tourism, Transport and Development. Mr Minister, tell me what you, as Minister and Government of the Republic of Croatia, are doing to ensure protection and control of the ecological fishing zone, as the provision enters into force, on the declaration of that belt to take effect in October 2004. So we don't have much time for that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7407	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Representative, ladies and gentlemen, as the government is known, it seems to me on February 12th that it appointed an inter-resor working group tasked with finding a solution to how to protect and monitor the Adriatic as a whole, and especially this ecological-fishing area that you are now mentioning. There, as the holder of the job, was appointed the Ministry of the Sea, Tourism, Transport and Development and chaired by the inter-resor groups and State Secretary for the Sea Mr. Bačić. They are included because of the complexity of the job, including the Ministry of Interior, the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministry of Environmental Protection, spatial planning and construction because the problem concerns over 80, over 80 laws. That task force did its job. He's almost done. Suggestions on how to organise it and how to monitor it, protecting the Adriatic will go to the government. I am already thinking about the government not now at this session, but probably at the next first session, but what I can say is that I would not now elaborate on a very, very high-quality proposal and I think I can also say that this is actually the beginning of forming a coast guard in Croatia. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7408	Satisfied.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7409	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7410	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I have a question for Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Sanader. During the debate on the Budget, its adoption and the amendments submitted, there were four amendments to the projects, whose implementation and construction are under way, and the projects in which contracts were signed on the one hand by the Republic of Croatia, on the other hand local or regional self-government in Međimurje. Since most of these projects are not provided with funds in the Budget or are secured in a far smaller amount than was the financial obligation of the Republic of Croatia for this calendar year, and in particular I mean the completion of the construction of the School of South Čakovec, the southern bypass of the town of Čakovec, the sewerage of Nedelisce-Macovec and the Domovec Hospital, my question is whether the Government intends to terminate these contracts and give up the completion of the projects in which they are working? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7411	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7412	So you see this is a classic example where every government that is on the one hand is obliged to respect the contracts concluded, the agreements signed, the contracts signed, and also the contracts it inherited and must respect them because contracts must be respected, and on the other hand it also finds itself in a situation to inherit the situation from the same predecessors that can't fulfill those contracts that the predecessors signed. We have no intention of breaking up any project or interrupting any project that is a developmental character, and what you're talking about is. In that sense, we are considering what we can do this year. At this point, I can't answer you more specifically what we're going to do with it. But what I stand on is that we will not break up any developmental character projects.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7413	I'm a colleague of Lesar's.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7414	I'll show my satisfaction when I get a final answer on how much money for the projects will be provided. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7415	Honorable representative Irena Ahel.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7416	Thank you, Mr. President, I would like to ask the Deputy Prime Minister and the Minister Mrs. Kosor. Is the Law on Areas of Special State Interest in preparation and when it will come before MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7417	Deputy Prime Minister Mrs. Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7418	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. Thank you for the question that is certainly of interest to many. Especially young families and certainly all those who have been in exile for many years and return to their homes. Since the start of his term, the government has been working on a new law of special interest. So no more areas than special national concerns because we think that of the law that was so called, which is still in force for many changes, there is nothing left, so there is not the essence of that mutilation. We're working on a new proposal, it's an inter-rosor business, so I could say that three four ministries are involved as holders. However, all ministries from the Ministry of Finance to the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports will eventually be included. Of course, the Ministry of the Family and so on, I'm not counting. We expect the law to be found in front of MPs by gender this year and the sea is also also highlighted because last week a conference of Croatian returnees was held that they expressed their desire to participate in the drafting of this law because they have a rich experience. Their conference was held under the name Restored Economy, which means that they are also interested in restoring the economy in these areas because then it means returning to everyone. Indeed, the life of a man worthy and the government has accepted their role as partner. I repeat because I can help with the rich exorcism. So the law is closed and we expect it in the middle of the year in front of the Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7419	Thank you. I'm pleased.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7420	Dear Representative Bozidar Pankretic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7421	Thank you very much, Mr. President-in-Office of the Parliament, Mr. Prime Minister. I would like to refer my question to you. Unfortunately, at the beginning, I have to start with one finding. On behalf of the Croatian Government, you are breaking the law and that is the law implementing the Stabilisation and Association Agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the European Community. Which was brought on December 5, 2001. If you remember this Law was passed on to your coalition partner DC's initiative, then you supported it, and it speaks clearly of certain obligations. These commitments consist of the fact that the platform or as it stands in the law, the basis for the government's conduct, must be reached as a conclusion in the Parliament before it is brought to the government. I'm going to ignore the article 4 that speaks very clearly. Before making the decision referred to in Article 3 of this Act, the Government of the Republic of Croatia shall submit a proposal for a decision as well as a proposal for a position to the Croatian Parliament to draw conclusions. Unfortunately, it wasn't done. It's even more. We would say MPs in the Croatian Parlement, including the general Croatian public, have no knowledge of the platform, and I would say, after that, neither of what is happening in the negotiations itself. I will not stress the interests of these negotiations. What is their importance in economic terms, especially when we speak in agriculture. Mr. Prime Minister, I ask you to answer me who will bear the consequences of what is breaking the law and what you will do in that regard. And when we're going to get legal information, because that's what the law allows us to do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7422	The Prime Minister Dr. Ivo Sanader.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7423	Can you tell me what article of the law that is? 4. Okay. We've got the law. I just haven't heard what article, article 4. Well, here's the deal, Mr. Representative. These days, in public with full right, we are discussing our negotiations with the European Union on Protocol 7. With full right, because we are all very interested in Croatia getting the best possible position in the expectation of aviation and candidate status. And then the negotiations with the European Union on accession mean those achcommuner chapters. I can tell you that the opposite of your statements in public, but also some other reviews of the negotiations are going very well and that Croatia will do everything possible because of the fact that on May 1st, the European Union is spreading from 15 to 25 in nothing, and we will not be in a worse position than we were at the time while your government negotiated an association and stabilisation agreement. That's what I stand behind and that's what this government platform is. So if it's a platform issue, the platform is that we're not going to be in anything anymore, or that we're not going to have a worse relationship than we've had before, while the European Union had 15 plus 10 members who are now entering and with whom we had a free trade agreement. So it's not true and thank you for this question. It's not true. It's just not true that they're increasing quotas for some products that we can't accept. We have the fact that we have quotas from the EU that are today 15, and we have the fact that we have quotas from the member states that will enter on 1 May. And we will not allow if that is your question, and that is what the public is most interested in, and that is what we will insist on, we will not allow Croatia to get more than the EU has today 15 plus what we have individually with these countries. That's our position. And we think it was your position, so the platform hasn't changed at all. And there's no reason to breathe dust. Moreover, I believe that we will achieve some improvements in relation to what has been a practice so far and that you have negotiated with the European Union on behalf of all of us.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7424	Representative Bozidar Pankretic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7425	Mr. Prime Minister, unfortunately, you haven't answered my question, so I can't be satisfied with the answer. I must tell you very specifically, our wish from the beginning is for the Croatian government and negotiators to have as strong a position as possible and therefore we insisted that it come to the Croatian Parliament. We were objectively right because it should have been by law and you didn't answer that part of the question. I'm looking for a written answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7426	Thank you. Honorable representative Lucia Chikesh.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7427	Thank you, Mr. President. I refer my question to the Minister of Culture Mr. Boza Bishop. Under your authority are also national parks and parks of nature you know one problem, which is that our people are a little bit more turned around by the processing of their country which has been abandoned and abandoned for years. Many have also begun to deal with livestock for the time being very modest, I speak for the region of the Dalmatian Fire. In a direct conversation with people in the area, I learned that they had a big problem. Since the half of 2003, damaged owners where wolves have caused them great damage in their herds have not received any cash compensation, and you know what it means to them as initial herdsmen. I would ask you to tell us what your ministry intends to do about this and how to help these people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7428	Minister Bishop, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7429	Thank you, Mr. President. It is true that during the second half of last year, no compensation for wolf damage was paid. We are aware of this problem and therefore, these days, we have started to send solutions, all the lagging solutions that have not been achieved in the past year, and also in cooperation with the State's Attorney's Office, we will speed up the process of these solutions because in this way that has been going on too long, and we are aware that after, sometimes, almost a year, these damages will be paid. We'll speed up the procedure, and we've already sent the first payment solutions these days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7430	Honored representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7431	The Honorable President, the Honorable Prime Minister, the Ministers, MPs and MPs. I refer my question to Minister Hebrang. The Honorable Minister Dr. Nikica Car resigned abruptly as president of the KBC Board of Directors of Zagreb. Officially for health reasons, and unofficially because he did not want to participate in a completely unwarranted shift prepared for the director of KBC Zagreb neurosurgeon prof. Josca Paladin, expert, world voice scientist. For the new President of the Governing Council, Dr. Milan Kujundzic, assistant minister. The general public is best known for using the official trip to Madrid to go bow to Ante Pavelic's grave. Minister Hebrang, you have recently cynically stated that you are not replacing the directors but the board of directors. But after this appointment, everything is clear. So that's another lie in a series that's abounding in your work. My question is very short and very simple. It reads: Could you really not find anyone else but one worshiper of Chief Ante Pavelic for his rematch of KBC Zagreb?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7432	Minister Hebrang, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7433	Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, on the visit to the grave of Mr. Pavelic, we expressed our position, we condemned it, and Dr. Kujundzic had nothing to do with it because he was a member of a group that accidentally came across the cemetery and we informed the public about it. Wait, there are some more funny parts in this answer to mine. We have also informed the Croatian public about this, and Professor Kujundzic himself has given the same explanation, so he joined our condemnation of such a procedure and I now repeat it again. As for the esteemed expert, The Paladin he will, of course, continue to do his profession because he is a top expert, but he will not be able to run the facility in the way he has led it so far because he has drawn her into debt that has caused the blockade of hospital accounts and thus the suspension of medicines. As I informed you through the press, three days ago we sent exactly 65 million kunas to resuscitate KBC Zagreb and I believe and will insist, the director who led to such a heavy debt cannot run the institution under new rules. As for the answer for dr. Cara, I had a conversation with him and he confirmed that it was health reasons. If it's anyone else, I'd like you to brief me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7434	Here's my esteemed colleague, Antičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7435	I'm going to ask for a written answer and all the details and the writing and, of course, the written yes, and simply because this Mr. Minister is simply not true.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7436	What are you looking for an answer, written or written?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7437	And written and written, for the many written, unfortunately, are not written.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7438	The Rules of Procedure provide only the written ones. Dear Representative Petar Mlinaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7439	Thank you, Mr. President. My question is to Mr. Hebrang. Will you stop highly differentiated procedures such as multi-organ transplants carried out in some hospitals like KB Mercury about what has been speculated in the media lately?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7440	Minister Hebrang, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7441	Thank you very much. This is an opportunity for me not to know which times I'm denying some speculation in the press, that I'm going to stop the transplant program or, as we heard here today, that I'm an opponent of that program. I would like to remind the honourable MPs and MPs that I, as the minister of the last term, signed a clinical hospital in Mercury, under one condition, that the transplant of these 20 livers per year does not go to the expense of other patients. Unfortunately, the current administration has developed the problem of transplanting by abolishing the urology department and disabling health care for 180 thousand residents of the center of Zagreb who now have to go all the way to the clinic of Dubrava. Therefore, with the new administration, we will not only support the transplant program but we will expand the transplant department, and as you have seen in the draft budget, there are intended funds for this, so we will develop the transplant at the expense of newly built space, not at the expense of the removal of other departments, which of course does not suit other patients. So one more time. The development of a transplant in any case, the expansion of the transplant department immediately this year from the budget, but not at the heart of other patients who must maintain their right to health services.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7442	Mr. Mlinarić, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7443	Thank you. Mr. Minister, the Croatian public needs to know the truth.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7444	Thank you. Dear Representative Željko Pavlic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7445	I have a question for the Prime Minister, Mr. Sanader. When will the government start leading a clear, principled and harmonised foreign policy? For now, I believe that foreign policy is marked by a cik-kak diplomacy between the European Union and the United States, by inappropriate acts of some diplomats that cause negative reactions in the country and abroad. There is an example of Minister Zuzula's arrival in Israel, and also of avoiding giving clear answers to some hot questions such as the issue of sending our soldiers to Iraq. This would be an opportunity for the prime minister to answer this question clearly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7446	Prime Minister, Dr. Ivo Sanader.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7447	... It's not a microphone, is it? [[The speaker is not on, you can't hear it.]] Do I need to repeat it or do I hear it?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7448	Say it again.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7449	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Representative. If anyone is leading a consistent foreign policy, then this government leads it, of course it is up to everyone in Croatia to assess how much it agrees or not with this assessment and my impression. There's no We have made it very clear when it comes to relations with the European Union and the United States. We can't run politics or/or politics. We can lead the only possible policy, which is a partnership policy with one and the other in this case to the European Union, means an institution of European integration, and in this case, the United States. I'm not a friend, and I don't think it would be good for Croatia to define itself for any side. Therefore, partnership and friendship with the United States and our focus and very clear orientation towards entering full membership of the European Union are not in conflict. Moreover, today you have, if everyone who follows more closely what is happening on the international community's foreign political scene, you have the fact that even those who were divided by yesterday on the issue of relations with the United States in terms of the Iraqi crisis, that they are overcoming it today, as Germany, France, etc. Therefore, I personally hold that not only Croatia but also Europe cannot, but neither can America, apply equally to the United States, cannot be without this transatlantic partnership and friendship. It's the position of our government, it's the position, I hope, and the opposition, and I think it's the only way. When it comes to sending soldiers to Iraq, I will repeat what the Minister of Foreign Affairs said the other day on a television show, on behalf of the Government, with my approval, we have no intention of sending a request to the Croatian Assembly for sending Croatian soldiers to Iraq.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7450	Comrade Pavlic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7451	I'm not happy with the answer. That apparently something is going on in Croatia's foreign policy was evidence of yesterday's meeting, so with President Mesic, where they tried to reconcile some things. I think it's going to happen, unfortunately, still. Thank you. [[/Intruder: Can I add?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7452	Don't, can't...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7453	Since it's a question, here, if you agree, if you don't... Okay. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] We had a very good meeting with President Mesic yesterday, with the president of the state. The president of the parliament was also present, and because of the possible, possible disagreements that occurred in the media, but which were not practical disagreements. Because at that meeting yesterday, we realized exactly what I just told you about. So, since under the Constitution, the President of the Republic and the Government are co-creating foreign policy, it is logical that we meet and we will continue to meet. We have introduced a practice of three meetings because I think it is good, and we have proposed to join the President of the Parliament in which we are considering important political issues, among other things, and foreign policy issues. And there's no reason to think. I said it in public yesterday, President Mesic stood by me, confirmed that there was no reflection on foreign policy, but that mutual consultations were needed, that is correct and that is what we will insist on and implement this practice further.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7454	Honorable representative Maria Byte.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7455	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. The abduction of General Zagorec's son is part of organised crime in the Republic of Croatia which is clearly manifested in a new form. These phenomena are increasingly difficult and justifiably alarming the public in the Republic of Croatia. So I ask Minister Marijan Mlinarić if the Ministry of Interior has a plan and what will he do to combat organised crime in the Republic of Croatia? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7456	Minister Mlinaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7457	Thank you very much, Madam Representative, Mr. President of the Parliament, your honors. Yes, the Ministry of the Interior is ready to carry out what this government has given itself on the job, and that is an unfettered battle with organised crime. The Ministry of the Interior has enough capable, professional, valuable and honest police officers to, in cooperation with intelligence agencies, with the State's Attorney's Office in an unfettered fight and ultimately organised crime, which we are proving with several successful actions such as the very quick police resolution of the abduction of General Zagorec's son, where 6 persons suspected of this act were brought in. And for others, warrants have been issued, and their detention is expected. Then we have a similar situation with the capture of a group where cigarette smuggling across the border was organized. Then, in Vukovar, police department organized crime in car theft and reselling. Then a group, or one of the perpetrators of a group, was caught smuggling weapons across the border. So we have several successful actions that prove that the Ministry of Interior, Intelligence and the State's Attorney's Office are ready and able to face and fight organised crime effectively in Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7458	Honorable representative Maria Byte.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7459	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I am pleased with the answer because our goal is the safety of citizens in the Republic of Croatia. The more we're a tourist country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7460	Thank you very much. The Honorable Representative, Ratko Gajica.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7461	Mr. President, I would like to refer my question to the Minister of Agriculture on the subject of agricultural cooperation in areas of special state concern. Many agricultural cooperatives, some of them on the tradition and property of former cooperatives, were formed in that area. It was created in this respect by its kind of privatisation, this privatisation can be in quotes, and it can be multiplely underlined. Instead, it is probably done in full accordance with the law, but it is shown to be in breach of justice and in dissent. Instead of expected initial development, we have now received a process in which cooperatives enter into bankruptcy, and property remains burdened with bank mortgages. My question is, does the Ministry of Agriculture have a full idea of this problem and is there any possible programme of measures to prevent, I think, very likely damage in this area and in that area? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7462	Minister Cobankovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7463	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. [[Specially enabled.]] Let me briefly answer this question. I think it is extremely good and important because in our interest it is also in the interests of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and the water economy that further progress has been made on the development of cooperatives. In accordance with this and within the section of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy, agricultural cooperatives have also entered the area according to the new structure. In this context, we will also form a department that will deal exclusively with cooperatives, from filming the situation to proposing further activities related to the development of cooperatives. Is this supposed to be a function of agricultural development and, above all, the development of agriculture in rural areas? As far as your direct question is concerned, I cannot give a direct answer but would ask you to send us a written, written form of what you have for individual cooperatives and we will then be able to answer you and examine the situation. I can't answer in principle whether there's been a violation of the law or not.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7464	Dear Representative Ratko Gajica, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7465	Mr. President, of course I can't be dissatisfied with the minister's response, but I'm unhappy with the state because it seems to me that we're a step behind the damage.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7466	Dear Representative Tomislav Culjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7467	Your Honor, Mr. President, I refer my question to our minister, Mrs. Jadranka Kosor. Well, here we all know that the Homeland War has unfortunately left a lot of wounds, and one of the particularly painful and open wounds is the search for missing defenders and civilians. It is known that 1240 missing persons are still being held in Croatia today, and we are witnessing that another mass grave in Vukovar-Srijem County near Tordinci began to be excavated these days. So I'd ask the minister what the first results of this investigation are, this digging, the digging, and do you have any knowledge of the possible number of people buried in such an inhumane manner by the Tordinians? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7468	Thank you. Dear Vice President, Minister Mrs. Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7469	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Your Honor. Yes, research works, i.e. excavations, began 12, 13 days ago in an area that is presumed to have indications and a series of information that could be the area of a mass grave. It's about a mass grave from Tordinac in front of a church there that was moved to 95, 96, and since then, of course, any trace of where the remains of the victims are lost. It's supposed to be 208. Here after these trial excavations, yesterday we were assistant Mr. Ivan Grujic and I were in one of those supposed places, where for now 6, or 7 remains were found, they were all in unusual, they couldn't find another expression, so I use that position to suggest they were unloaded, so from the truck and they were re-inoculated. It's a tomb that's almost three metres deep, which is extremely deep, and it's about a very clear intention of hiding and completely poisoning the traces of crime. The work on that location will continue. There's a few more reliable information about this, so where the remains from the mass grave in the center of the Tordinac could be, in that area. and, of course, the Government will support in all ways and, if necessary, some additional material resources to complete this work. By the way, in the area here is the whole of Croatia, today there are 137 places of mass graves. I also talked about it on the United Nations Human Rights Commission in Geneva last week, and I just warned about the problem. There are 1214 other people on the list of prisoners and missing persons. And the government, or the ministry, will propose to the government the establishment of also one piece of advice that would bring together experts from all areas that could help as quickly as possible to find information about possible sites of mass graves, their exhumation and the natural identification of victims. And already here, when you asked a respected representative that question, I would have eventually taken advantage of the number of phones that have existed for a number of years in the present office for the captured and missing, and the current administration at the Ministry of the Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity, number 062/1111-111, so 6 six people who can be contacted about possible locations of mass graves, or possible places where victims can be found so that this painful process can be completed as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7470	Thank you. Dear Representative Tomislav Culjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7471	Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7472	Thank you. Dear Representative Doric Miljenko.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7473	Mr. President, distinguished members of the government. My question is referred to by the Minister of Science, Education and Sports, and I would first remind all of us that, when presenting the Government's programme, and later in explaining the budget for this year, it is clearly underlined that the government will see and support this country's development in the direction of supporting scientific and research work, applying new technologies and clearly improving the educational process. Despite the declarative support and science and education and new technologies, I want to remind you here that in the past three months without any explanation, the funding of all scientific research projects in the Republic of Croatia has been cut off. Over 1500 have not received any lip in the past three months, and clearly then the question is, how do we realise the contractual obligations we have towards your ministry and with your ministry? Nothing in a less difficult position has been found in a high school facility. You also know that even those in the last three months have not received any lip for the material costs of our colleges and high school institutions. They don't even have to pay for electricity anymore. Clearly, this raises the question of how long or how long will you support and start Croatia this way? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7474	Minister Primorac.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7475	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Your Honor. I'll answer you briefly, but I think in one segment you'll be pleased with my answer. You know that the provisional budget does not allow activities beyond those envisaged, these are necessary activities. However, I am a scientist and I very often, I would say intensively in contact with hundreds of scientific project leaders and I myself have an international project and colleagues have begun to receive money, especially after the voted budget. Exactly the same that there are technological projects and these technological projects this year have been stepped up by about 10 million kuna and it is true that several months of technology projects have also not been financed. Just for these reasons I've told you. But also true that most of these project leaders may not have all been familiar with these reasons, and the reasons are more than objective and you all know what this provisional budget means. ...high school, and I personally visited several universities both Split and Zagrebačko and Osijek University and about the numbers sought by the rectors and others, I can say that they were respected and also in the past two months paid what they needed to function. But after the budget was adopted other funds, for example, we have specific cases with student organisations who were also dissatisfied and with which I found myself and explained it to them and it was launched. What is particularly important is to say that certain projects that are now going to the Republic of Croatia, especially capital investments, have enough money, but that money that surprised me as a minister, is not easy to spend. For example, this year in Osijek we have more than 150 million available for capital investments, will be spent around 40 in Split, the situation is similar. And I'm asking nicely, although the justification of your question is irrefutable that these three months that were, let me connect them to the provisional budget, and now I'm telling you from this moment on we're going very strongly. I have information from the field, I have information that the money has been paid for certain projects, and for technology projects that are particularly important to me, because they really run the Croatian state, where 10 million kuna has been approved, my Secretary of State Professor Christevic has had talks more than 15 days in the last 10 days, where he explained to people what happened and these money is going. Technology projects are a strategic issue, about four points in my Ministry's Work programme. And no doubt about it, I guarantee you that what has not been paid will be paid to be paid in the near future.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7476	Honored representative Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7477	You know, Mr. Minister, I must not be satisfied with your answer, but you of all those who have asked me to ask that question here. Earlier, the prime minister said contractual obligations were contractual obligations, no matter who concluded them or when. These contracts are valid and I really ask you to intervene as soon as possible, because the system, clear science, is kind of shutting down with this unserious policy towards the contractors of these projects. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7478	Thank you. Dear Representative Kajo Bucan.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7479	Thank you, Mr. President. I ask the question to the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister Andrija Hebrang. These days, we have witnessed media signs related to illegal construction. One of these things that happened especially is the eyes of the Croatian public and of this House of Commons. It is about illegal construction in Donja Garica on the island of Krk. According to media reports, the author of the illegal construction is Chief State Inspector Branko Jordanic. My question, what does the government intend to do in this case?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7480	Deputy Prime Minister, Dr. Andrew Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7481	Dear Mr. Representative, and in this case, the Government of the Republic of Croatia stands at the stand that the laws of this country apply equally to all. We also stand at the point of view that a normal legal procedure is passed before giving any final conviction. The inspection of Ms. Marin Dropulić's ministry is under way, and when the process is completed, if it is proved that the construction is illegal, illegal, or without a building permit, we expect Mr. Jordanić to have a moral act of resigning on his post.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7482	Thank you very much. I'm happy with the answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7483	Honorable representative Ivo Lonchar.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7484	Mr. President, it is once again very energetic and I strongly protest your violation of the Rules of Procedure. I don't want to participate in this farce, I don't want to participate in this brotherhood and unity, false brotherhood and unity, I've always judged him, so I'm judging him now. I don't want to be a part of a farce that was imposed by the party because I don't recognize the court of the party. I'm just looking for what follows me in the Rules of Procedure. And in the last assembly of the Parliament and in this, I defended the dignity of this House and defended the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7485	Do you have an attorney's question?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7486	I don't. I don't want to be a part of this farce. And at least you should have given for this farce vote in this House.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7487	You've all agreed that this is how the president of the clubs happens. Dear Representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7488	Dear Prime Minister, I will now read before you and in front of the Croatian public, one of your sentences spoken not long ago in the Croatian Parliament here. The sentence reads: "Croatia must not agree that our generals are accusing themselves of being encouraged, have committed a criminal act of persecution, forced deportation and relocation of the Serb population from the Republic of Croatia, and in part through the implementation of the Liberation Action Storm. No, Croatia cannot accept these accusations and we cannot act on them." Today you accept these charges by passing them along, passing them on to the accused, and doing them. My question to you is, what do you personally think of people who change their political beliefs seasonally if necessary? Do you appreciate these people, or do you not appreciate them, whether you believe them or not? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7489	It's not a question of fellow Stazic whether, but it's nicely wrapped, that you will only be Mr. Prime Minister, moment one. Why do you put such an offensive claim through such a twisted form on someone who changes their minds? Have you ever had different opinions about things at the same time? Here you go, Prime Minister. Why insult?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7490	Mr. President of the Parliament, I understand and understand your need to defend the dignity of this House and also the Prime Minister, but I will defend myself. Because what Mr. Trazic said, with full right as representative of the highest legislative body in Croatia, is simply absurd. Funny thing about "Free Dalmatia" is that section called pompous. And there are, of course, others, I'm not saying this because I'm a splinter, but there are other newspapers with different contributions that are a humorous character. You're a well-known humorist, but first of all, I'm going to answer you as an agent and not as a humurist. What I think of the Homeland War and the generals is the same thing yesterday and today. What you think we never found out. Because the Croatian public doesn't even know what you think of the Homeland War. ... Furthermore, if I were right to testify and one not so long ago, November 23, 2003. [[Applause.]] On that date and on that day, the Croatian voters told you and your foreigners and politics and a ton of these questions, as well as the content of these questions that you ask, thank you comrades. That's what they told you on November 23rd. And on November 23rd, these same political voters that I am leading as the president of the country's strongest political force said that we are also implementing this policy today. ... [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7491	Comrade Stazić, please express your satisfaction or dissatisfaction.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7492	I'm certainly not, I'm sure I'm not satisfied.../ The speaker shut down and re-enabled... what you are, I don't know what your voters gave support to, that sentence I read that you were saying or that attitude you're making today, but that's your thing. I can't be satisfied with the answer because I didn't even get the answer. My question was how do you feel about people like that?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7493	I can answer this.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7494	And he can't take it anymore.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7495	That's an extra question.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7496	No further questions.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7497	Let go of the extra question.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7498	Additional questions, but.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7499	If Agent Stazic agrees, I won't if he doesn't.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7500	He'll get along just fine.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7501	As you've heard, I've quite answered your question, which was not at all a question, but was a suggestion of a finding based on entirely wrong assumptions. So I answered, I think much better than the question.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7502	Well, just the change, only the change in this world is eternal. Here's my colleague, Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7503	Just one correction, my question was not based on conjecture but on a quote from your sentence.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7504	Okay. Dear representative Mirjana Brnadić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7505	I thank Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, I have a question for the Minister for Environmental Protection, Spatial Planning and Construction, Ms. Marina Matulović-Dropulic. The wider Croatian public is well-known, well-known ecological problem of the pool with lush at the location of the former Glinica factory in Obrovec. Last week, the media reported that there was also a shooting of pool walls. Zadar County ordered and financed its own proposal to resuscitate the pool and sent the proposal to the ministry in 2000 which did not appear until the end of its term. I'm asking, my question is what does this Ministry intend to do to make this recovery happen? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7506	Dear Minister Marina Matulović-Dropulic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7507	Mr. President, Madam Representatives in Croatia today we have several critical locations created by environmental pollution over many years. Resuscitation will surely be very expensive and complex. It is, for example, a cave of Soviets in Rijeka, a plant of long war salons, a clay factory in Obrovec and some others. That recovery clearly won't, once again, be simple or cheap. We're designing a gradual approach to that recovery right now. One of the proposals will also be to call a tender in which our well-known experts would give answers to, and their proposals to resuscitate those facilities. There's got to be one more thing, and that's that we've got some solutions, though partial from individual companies, not for this one or this location, but clearly that's where we have to do the review. In addition to what you said, it should be said that the Ministry of Environment and Spatial Planning during 2000 and 2001 was in agreement with the Italian Government on the motion for recovery, that one team of experts went to the very location and found that decommissioning and partial recovery would cost more than $40 million. After that, these bilateral talks were interrupted, and according to our meetings, the Italian government gave up. What is happening today in that location is that we think that it is also a partial cause of these last events, lately events that have occurred in the pools themselves, which is especially cutting and decommissioning without an environmental impact study. Therefore, we must urgently organise this environmental impact study although it is an obligation for investors to do so, that means the Obrovac municipality, but neither they nor the County nor the state can solve the problem on their own and we will all immediately begin the problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7508	Thank you. I am pleased with the answer and in the great hope that emergency intervention will happen really quickly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7509	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Zeljko Kurtov.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7510	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, the Honorable Prime Minister. I'm asking the question to Mr. Prime Minister or Mr. Kosor's Registrar. In general, the public is among the barat defenders as the final act that shares will begin to be divided into defenders. Not just for disabled people as it has been. But we've been listening to that story for seven, eight years now, and I'm asking you to answer me if you can't hear it well. ... Well, I don't know what's wrong with this microphone. [[/The intruder doesn't understand.]] Among the defenders, the story is that the division of shares will begin as much as 7.8 years ago, the story has been publicised. I wonder if the share-sharing rule has been made and has it been made, has the share-sharing decision been made? If it isn't when will it be? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7511	Vice-President, Vice-President and Minister Mrs Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7512	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Your Honor, Mr. Representative, I'd like to inform you that, I don't know if you're referring to the implementation of the Law on the Croatian Defence Fund. So that law has been passed, I can only answer that part. This Law was passed before the end of the term of the last term of the Croatian Parliament and this fund, namely, is being symbolically put on its feet. So just last week, last Friday, the first constitutive session of the trust board was held, and we agreed for this week, so for this Friday for a new meeting where we're actually going to go into the right procedure, set up all the assumptions that are necessary for the functioning of such a law or law enforcement, and then, I think that's the answer to your question in which I can answer as a resolute minister. So you're working intensively on implementing that law. The board of directors has been formed. According to the law, of course, the minister is responsible for the management of the Governing Board or the Administrative Council. Defence representatives or defence associations were appointed last year at the end of last year. This year he also gave his representative the Croatian Parliament and the Ministry of Defence and Labour, a small entrepreneurship. Therefore, all the conditions for functioning are there. Of course, it is a very serious job and we have come to it with a lot of preparation because we think that the Law on the Croatian Defence Fund must be a law that must be fully respected and implemented.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7513	Here's a colleague of Kurt's.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7514	I am pleased with your answer, however, precisely because it is very important that this rule that will be passed on to the division of these shares is a very important thing throughout this story. I therefore expected that some funds would be allocated in the budget to ensure that this rule was passed in quality and that it would not be “ad hoc” some law but to be done on, to the satisfaction of both governments and defenders. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7515	Dear Mr. President, a question for Mr. Sanader, for the Prime Minister. Mr. Prime Minister, 19. 3. On Friday, of the six chiefs of the tax administration, Split Five exhibits have been replaced. All five had working grades that were very high. They are all experienced workers with 20 years of work experience. So they're all from the system on the inside. They've had the best results so far. Now they're being redeployed to the lowest possible jobs that anyone with a high level of expertise gets, to the level of inspectors. The Head of the Tax Administration of the Republic of Croatia, Mr. Mladneo, made an effort to hand over the transfer decision to them personally. The head of the Omis area office has also been replaced. I'm asking you to answer me if this is about rematchism or maybe it's even worse? I don't know how you could explain this by calling, worse if it's personal revenge, I have no idea, if it's something that's irrational. The point is, I call on your statements that they will be respected primarily by the profession, so I think that precisely because it was very professional people in the system you should answer for the public's sake of this question.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7516	The Prime Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7517	Thank you, Mr. President of the Parliament. Mr. Jurjevic, yes, I have said and I am standing and I think it is a rule that we must all adhere to regardless of which authority was in Croatia, that we must respect the profession, not political membership. And we'll be absolutely on top of it. I don't know everything, I don't know all the details about these cases you're saying, but some of them are because they respect the profession, and some of them don't have passed the expert exam. So just because we respect the profession, and they don't have a passed expert exam, they've been replaced. I don't know about everyone. I don't know about any of them. So I'm going to question and I'm going to ask of course to be told by the Assistant Minister but also by the Minister of Finance about each individual case. But I repeat, if there's no expert exam, I doubt you'd do the same.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7518	Dear Representative Marin Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7519	Mr. Prime Minister, I think you've been misinformed in this case by five chiefs of six in the IRS. I'm going to ask this question in writing, because I'm very interested in getting a written answer. It's about Split, my city and everyone's town. I think this is about something else.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7520	Dear Representative Zeljko Pecek.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7521	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'm referring the question to the Prime Minister, Dr. Sanader. The consequences of poor privatisation carried out 10 years ago are still felt today, today are the current bankruptcy of these companies. I would focus on two examples in our county of the company Klasje and Slatina and Agriculture from Virovitica. The main activity of these companies is the processing of agricultural products. And the characteristic of the bankruptcy that has been triggered is that the debts are several times greater than the basic capital of society. The characteristic is that several thousand people lost the wheat that was deposited. And that's how a few thousand tons of wheat disappeared. Unfortunately, because of the bankruptcy procedure, they are in a different payment order, so they cannot expect neither wheat nor any financial compensation for what they have lost. It's mostly about categories of people who literally lost their bread. For they made a deposit in order to have among other things, and to raise flour to make bread for themselves at home. Given the particular sensitivity of your government and the inability of another solution, I ask you if you are willing to consider the possibility of at least these social categories of people or families being helped to get bread again. I'm willing to hand over a list of several hundred of those families who have monthly incomes all by several hundred kunas. I think five hundred have incomes all around $400 a month. Because there are no other solutions that can be done through bankruptcy. I ask you to consider the possibility that the Government will try from budget reserves or from some other sources of assistance to these families.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7522	The Prime Minister, Dr Ivo Sanader, please be my guest.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7523	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Representative, I'm not as familiar with the case as you are with both cases in which you speak. So I ask you to provide me with the full information I will then give you in written reply our position.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7524	And a respected representative in the end, Miss Maria Lugaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7525	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. I refer my question to the prime minister of the Croatian government, Mr Sanader. Minister Zuzul made a rough diplomatic guff for a recent visit to Israel. Commenting on the actions of members of the Palestinian self-government president of the Palestinian self-government Jaser Arafata, Minister Zuzul said, I quote. "If it were hard to tell who Israel would.../ The pay phone went off the Palestinian side, and we're worried there's no clear partner. We hope that the Palestinians will be able to find appropriate guidance that will be able to negotiate and achieve peace." Mr. Prime Minister, are you aware that this is exactly the same as if someone from the European Union, for example, said. Croatia should become a member of the European Union, but we in the European Union hope that the Croats will succeed in finding appropriate leadership that will be able to negotiate and achieve that goal. If, for example, a nett, such a sentence asked Croatia, we would all, of course, be alerted. Why? Because Croatia has its own leadership, for all international negotiations, which is precisely you selected by the Croatian Government. Likewise, no one has the right to determine who their representatives will be, but that right has only one Palestinian people. Mr Sanader, I am quite sure that you, as an experienced diplomat, know that Minister Zuzul has violated the basic rules of diplomacy that he knows and every diplomatic beginner, so I am asking you as president of the Croatian Government whether the Croatian Parliament to whom you but also Minister Zuzul is responsible for his actions, If anything else, then at least he will hope on future diplomatic visits he will take care of what is said. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7526	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7527	Thank you very much, Miss Representative. Not only in the next official diplomatic encounters, but I am also the chief of the thesis, and I see that you also advocate and support that it is better to say the word less than the word. That we need to be careful and that we have to be responsible for what we say. I spoke to the minister about his statement, of course, and he told me that he had repeated his statement and the position of the European Union. Perhaps we should not, since we are not members of the European Union or that we still have candidate status. Nor to represent the European Union's view of it simply remains at the point of view that the Pelestinians have the right to their own state and determine their negotiators to conduct negotiations with Israel on their behalf. But I'm referring to another fact that part of what he's told has been taken out of context. And that he was responding together with the Israeli foreign minister, where they first asked the Israeli minister what he thought of the ommes, and then they asked him. And after that, they brought the position of the European Union. So everything in everything needs to be careful and above all, to follow our policy. Our policy is for the Palestinians to have the right to their own country and to agree in negotiations with Israel on this.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7528	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7529	Your Honor, Mr. Prime Minister, I'm not quite sure if such an explanation has been accepted by the Palestinian people. I can be responsible and I don't have to be satisfied, but I hope you have these kind and well-influenced conversations with the minister before he travels somewhere, not when he comes back. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7530	In accordance with Article 189 of the Treaty on the I would like to inform the Rules of Procedure that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has not delivered an answer within the prescribed time limit to Agent Miljenko Doric and I would like to ask that the answer be delivered within 8 days. The government of the Republic of Croatia has not delivered an answer within the prescribed deadline to the representative's question, Zeljke Antunovic, and I ask that the answer be delivered within 8 days. The Government also did not deliver within the prescribed deadline an answer to two parliamentary questions from Joza Radoša, and I ask that delivery replies be answered within 8 days. Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs are currently finished in the morning. We hope to have better luck with the next one. Continuing for this little length of 15.30 hours.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7531	... I suggest we start with the afternoon section. [[Home is not saved.]] We are going towards the agenda points, I hope that we will be able to honour the order we received in the calls, of course the condition is that the working bodies of the Parliament have passed and that the representatives of the Government are present at the meetings. The first point is – 1. Proposal for a law confirming the guarantee agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the European Investment Bank to finance a gas system project in the Republic of Croatia, investor Plinarro d.o.o., with the Final Bill Proposal, emergency procedure, first and second reading of P.Z. No. 54 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. When establishing the agenda, we accepted the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of this law. You received the proposal by mail. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure unites the first and second readings of the law. Amendments may be submitted until the end of the debate pursuant to Article 164 of the Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. You received the reports at the session, they're probably on the benches. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? On behalf of the promoter, Ivan Suker, Finance Minister and Secretary of State Martina Dalic at the finance ministry should be on behalf of him. State Secretary, Ms. Martina Dalic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7532	So just a few words. So it's a guarantee. The borrower is Plinacro, the guarantee of the Republic of Croatia, and the amount of the 90m-euro loan intended for the central and eastern Croatian pipeline system and the Pula-Carlovac gas pipeline system. It's a loan. It's a 20-year payday. It's a five-year standoff.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7533	Thank you very much. The explanation was brief. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Here you go, my colleague. You're just applying for a hearing. Is there anyone on behalf of the board? No, I don't. Then we move on to a statement on behalf of the clubs. On behalf of the SDP club, we have a fellow representative, Slavko Linic. Here you go, my colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7534	Madam Chairman, colleagues and colleagues. The SDP Club will support the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Guarantee Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and the European Investment Bank. We do, however, express our satisfaction that one of the former government's projects is being continued. One of the projects that is very important for the energy stability of the Republic of Croatia, which is also important for maintaining the growth rate in the economy, because supporting the gasification project means supporting investments, strengthening the investment market in the Republic of Croatia and enabling many companies to see their future in developing this energy. In fact, one of the great difficulties of the Republic of Croatia is uneven regional development. Imbalanced regional development and due to insufficient energy sources, which have so far made it impossible for faster economic activity. It is certain that the gas and the cleanest energy at this time in Croatia is the good part and the cheapest energy and areas in Croatia that are without it energy means a certain minus in the battle for the market position, and that is what needs to be resolved in Croatia and I believe that the gasification project that will address the gas system in the eastern part of Croatia in the first phase, but which will finally connect the gas fields in the northern Adriatic with the master pipelines of gas in the Republic of Croatia, thus solving the problem of gas shortage in the western part and of course a very important second phase, which is the phase of gasification and coast and Dalmatia and the southern part of Croatia. By doing so, we will provide a source of energy, provide the same energy in the Republic of Croatia, which means equal operating conditions for each part of the Republic of Croatia. A project currently costs around 187m euros, of which 90 million is provided under the most favourable conditions by the European Investment Bank for 20 years with one of the lowest interest, and I am convinced that it means several hundred million euros in new investments. It is not only an investment in the highway pipeline, it is an investment in Ina and the battle that Ina invests in gas fields in the northern Adriatic, and then it is a huge asset that counts in hundreds of millions of dollars, the possibility that Ina is finally investing in new wells in the Republic of Croatia not out of it and that, of course, in this business, it employs as many Croatian companies as possible. But it's also a battle tomorrow for distribution companies that will deal with gas distribution regardless of whether it's citizens, whether it's entrepreneurs or companies, and that means that the battle is to introduce gas in every city, in every municipality in most Croatian counties. These are new investments again, these are new challenges for Croatian entrepreneurs, and these are what we say are ways to offer Croatian companies jobs, how to enable Croatian companies to develop, how to enable them to think about their investment. To come to this stage when we are discussing a contract between the European Investment Bank and the Republic of Croatia today, a number of previous actions should be carried out before that. Surely the most important thing was to isolate from Ina those parts of its business that do not enter privatisation processes and that was the reason that Plinacro, which is 100 % owned by the Croatian state, should not be considered for privatisation because it is a monopoly position of masteral transport. As has been done with Janafa shares and oil transport routes are also now in majority ownership of the Republic of Croatia and can affect these systems that mean monopoly on the Croatian market. But something else had to be done. In order to make this investment of around 190m euros interesting for banks and to show the responsibility of the Croatian state for these investment projects should also be provided with regular sources of financing, and this was the reason why the last government considered the setting of prices and the provision of prices for gas transport. Plinacro has its regular revenues on gas transport and these revenues ensure the return of these investments. These revenues indicate that this will not be a budget grant, that it will not be a budget exemption but is a fully closed investment activity with its own revenues, given that changes in gas policy prices have provided revenues for the transport of gas. What does this investment mean for Željezar Sisak? For a system that has had a problem for years because it has insufficient markets for its prices. I don't think that should be particularly pointed out, but also, all those who specialize in the production of gas system equipment, for pumps, but not only on master pipelines, but especially on distribution, for them it means job safety over the next 30 years. Long-term planning. We know very well how huge the investment of utility companies or utility companies that have entered the distribution of gas is, thanks to the source of energy coming to them. This investment means finally ending the problem during the winter period when gas shortages always made it difficult to see whether there would be continuity of production in the "Kutin" artificial fertiliser factory. Whether there will be enough gas for the needs of Croatia's electricity industry that guarantees its thermal power plants and supplies in winter times. Therefore, this investment means the possibility of sufficient amounts of gas being present to citizens for their needs, as well as to any economic system for their development and their future. There's another importance to this system. Croatia imports most of the gas and we have always imported gas. That's why most of our costs go for energy, whether it's oil or gas. With these investments, we finally turn to our own gas sources. These are its own gas sources from the northern Adriatic, not far from Pula. Finally, we can say that this is an investment that will reduce foreign exchange spending to pay for energy costs. This means that we will finally have less expenditure and slightly more favourable balance payments and the results of our exchange with abroad. But something else is very important. In the Republic of Croatia we have resolved the unique prices and oil derivatives and electricity. The gas market is not uniquely solved. We have different prices in the Republic of Croatia. Different prices for the reason that we had a small part of Croatia covered with this energy. With the possibility of transporting gas throughout Croatia, investing in this highway system of gas, we will finally be able to talk in the Republic of Croatia about introducing a single gas price system for all citizens of Croatia, for all economic systems. Except maybe minor differences in the distribution itself. I therefore think that there will be much to be done on the basic one, which is how to even the development of all regions in the Republic of Croatia. This is the reason why we estimate that this Law is very valuable, that it should be supported by representatives in the Croatian Parliament, that there is no risk of a guaranteed state budget, and that the effects of this investment are multiple. I believe that these effects will again return to the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the thinking that the Croatian Railways project is one of those that should be supported in the same way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7535	Thank you very much, colleague. On behalf of the HSS Club, MP Luka Roic reported. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7536	Madam Vice President, fellow Secretary of State and colleagues and colleagues. Let me also say on behalf of the HSS a few words about this bill proposal, about confirming the loan. In fact, we in HSS also consider that it is a very high quality law, i.e. a proposal for a law on the confirmation of a loan for gasification, i.e. one energy that is very important in our assessment in Croatia's energy system. It is known that all other energies are more expensive and lack them in sufficient quantity, and this is one of the projects that can in some way guarantee that future gas will take that place that belongs to it. That, as the predecessor said, the other highway routes would be included in the system. First of all, I mean the southern part of Croatia. So no doubt this is one of the projects that should be supported and welcomed. It is already said that it is the cheapest energy, that it is undoubtedly the cleanest energy, that projects like this encourage new investments, which is very important. And that's why I'm joining the appeal Mr. Linic made, so that the projects we talked about last time, it's a railway project, also in many ways contribute to new investment cycles and multiply our economic growth. And that's why we're delighted to accept and support this kind of project. It is, as we have heard, a project worth 187m euros, of which is 90 million credits that, the loan we take, and 77 million euros means own resources and 20 million euros of short-term loans from the Croatian Bank for the restoration and development of our HBOR. Of course, such investment in highways is also an incentive, as they said, but for distribution houses and was obviously a good policy which has singled out Plinacro as a company fully owned by the Croatian state as a house which is actually the owner of this project and which deals with this business. It is certainly important to stress that regular sources of funding are provided and should, in any case, aim at a unique gas price system as far as possible if, of course, it is still to be considered this way if the energy that is domestically available can be used for the substitution of those energy sources that have so far certainly burdened the significant balance of payments and the commercial balance of our country, which are allegedly, which are naturally export-oriented or import-oriented. And that is why we in the HSS, not to repeat all these reasons why I think it is necessary for all of us in the Assembly to actually support ratification, or the signing and validation of this Act, which means that Plinarro will allow for the creation, or the establishment of a gas pipeline system in the Republic of Croatia, and on the tape planned for this loan. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7537	Thank you very much, dear colleague. Next up for discussion, a representative of Mate Church appeared. Here you go, my colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7538	Madam Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. This project deserves to be said another word. The simple Croatian Parliament here today does not make just some technical move that accepts and confirms one guarantee agreement. The Croatian Parliament today makes a decision on the gasification of the entire Croatia. And it's definitely a project and a moment that deserves attention. It is not only of course the fact that this is such a capital issue of complete infrastructure, which is the true prerequisite for overall development, but in itself generates economic development, but also, as already seen in the debates already, it is a developmental issue that is important from the point of view of the geostrategic position of Croatia. Allows his valorisation. On top of that, it's a base for internal economic development. About that, let me point out. First, it is that all assumptions are created here by what we will accept today, I believe in the Croatian Parliament, that the main overall network for gasification of the whole of Croatia is developed, so that it is the first moves that go in eastern and central Croatia, and then the important moves between Karlovac and Pula, and then in the second phase it is affected by the Vrbovski character and the whole of Dalmatia. It is a job that is in the energy sector and a project that means it in the energy sector, which in the transport system simply means building highways. The second important moment that is important here is the fact that all financial issues have been resolved. Today, in Croatia, we have solved all the financial issues of gasification of the entire country in the coming period. This funding does not burden the state budget with anything. Gas network filtration and development is funding itself. Here is simply a favourable loan from the European Investment Bank, which is at the level of today's Juribor with an interest rate of about 4.3% per 20 years, which Plinacro will very easily serve, and all other own gasphres that are derived from the transport tariff, because this is how the entire energy price system is arranged. Therefore, without any burden on anyone we realize, we are able to say that today we have a closed financial structure to finance the entire system of pipelines throughout the country until 2011. The third important moment is, of course, that this project as well as other capital projects that we have launched, which did not come from itself, but from many years of effort, simply encourages the development of a wider one. It's not just Sisak and Petrochemia in Kutina that can perform as much fertilizer as they want today, but it didn't have gas, etc., but also a lot of other things. Especially so that one person, one Baranja, that one Dalmatian Zagora and others get energy such as gas, without which there is no economic development or any base for coherent regional development. It should also be pointed out that this brings something into the energy system that is particularly important from the environmental point of view. So, with this project that doesn't burden the finances of a state that means so much economically, we at the same time get an ecologically large amount that has so far been ignored in the gasification debates. It is known that the entire areas, the entire cities and regions have solved the problem of the pollination by introducing gas as energy and all that it means. and finally to highlight this gasification project is geostrategic, because, as it will be possible to communicate with gas through Croatia, we will be able to charge that pipeline in various ways, as we charge for rail transport and the rest. But also important, the gasification project enables Croatia's energy independence in that part. We're at this point depending on only one gas source, from the east. When we connect the entire system including gas sources in the Adriatic, they will be connected to Italy and will be connected to the African Mediterranean, which among other things is a large source of gas unused and where gasification still needs to go and where we can simply and easily develop a mass of jobs. We've given this project a lot of attention and effort. Today, it is worth noting with pleasure that this project is already being implemented and very successful. There are simply contracts for pipes, an international tender under the rules of the European Investment Bank for certain performances, etc., and this whole project has an international verification. Simply, this is about one project that is well prepared, well done and has long-term great meaning and it is a pity that such projects are no longer available. Of course, the next period will need to prepare and start new projects that are needed in various areas if economic growth and development are to be maintained and further improve the overall state of play in the country. I believe, therefore, that we will support this successful fundamental strategic project for the national economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7539	Thank you very much, dear colleague. For the last debate, MP Ljubo Jurcic signed up.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7540	Thank you, Madam Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. I'm joining the same support for this contract. In fact, the gas network development project and its own gas production and safe gas supply is certainly one of the most significant projects of the last government. His longevity may not be visible at first sight. But if the potential effects of this project are analysed in a little more detail, then its broad impact on all parts of economic life and the quality of life will be seen very quickly. If we compare it with the construction of highways in Croatia, which is also one of the most important projects at first sight, the question from the economic point of view is whether the existing production of goods and services in Croatia can be translated into Croatian roads? The answer is certainly yes. However, when, for example, the Croatian economy increases the production of goods and services from, for example, 50% from the current $22.23 billion to $30 billion, the question arises, could this increased production of goods and services be primarily on existing roads? And it certainly would, but just a little slower. That's why you need to build roads. However, to increase production, i.e. By increasing the gross domestic product, the state should build infrastructure and energy and other conditions for this increase, as well as remove obstacles that make it impossible. One of these conditions with the existing structure of the Croatian economy, which will still be and will be in the coming periods of energy intensively, is bringing gas to every part of Croatia. On the contrary, today many products cannot be produced at all in some parts of Croatia where there is no gas or cannot be produced quality and competitively enough. Namely, the gas is as we know not only serving as energy he is raw in many products. Best example of this Petrochemy Kutina, which cannot use its capacities due to limited gas supply. As a result, Petrochemy has reduced production, high average fixed costs, so with our own factory in Croatia and our own capacities due to a lack of gas, we have to import artificial fertilisers. Today, only one third of Croatia is gassed. This means that the other 2/3 of Croatia do not have the same energy and raw materials as one factor in unbalanced regional development. It should also be borne in mind that the development of new gas-based technologies, cogeneration, gas fuel cells, etc. will create new opportunities for a more efficient and safer use of energy in the near future. So until there is a simple possibility of home production of electricity from gas, which will also reduce the need to build large, expensive energy plants. In the foreseeable future, natural gas will certainly retain the role of one of the most significant energy products. And energy consumption will grow, energy consumption will especially grow in the developing economy, which should be Croatia. The growth of energy is expected to increase and share natural gas at the expense of other energy sources due to its specificity, characteristics. For example, the possible consumption of gas in Croatia could grow to 6.6 billion cubic metres of gas from 2.7 billion to 2.8 billion gases by 2030. For this increase in consumption, infrastructure should be built on time. Gas consumption is expected to grow in all consumer categories, the most gas would be used in electricity production around 35%, households would be in second place with a share of about 20%, third place would be cogenerations with about 15%, industry between 10% and 15%. This level of gas consumption is very demanding in ensuring sufficient quantities of gas or in the development of gas infrastructure for gas consumption. These are some of the facts that indicate that it was the last hour to start with a complete gasification project for Croatia. The gasification project launched two years ago was designed in quality in all its elements by organisational, technological, financial and is implemented through the state-owned company Plinarro. That's what I have to say because until recently I was the chairman of the Plinar Supervisory Board. According to this project, the whole of Croatia should be gassed by 2011. With all the problems that follow it, the project is going at a satisfactory pace. But many institutional and obstacles in the field require strong support from the Croatian government. First of all, it is about the establishment of local permits and other administrative barriers. This credit of the European Investment Bank shall be included in the investment and financial implementation plan of the project. He completely fits into the principles of cash, credit and... Management, which is being implemented at Plinacro and I believe that this contract on... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] you need to support it unreservedly. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7541	Thank you very much, colleague. There are no more registered deputies. We're closing the debate. Unless the secretary of state wants to address the MPs? Here you go. Mrs. Martina Dalic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7542	I would like to inform the MPs that the Legislative Committee has tabled an amendment that nomotechnically edits this text which deletes the words "on the guarantee between the Republic of Croatia and the European Investment Bank" in Article 4 of this Act and replaces the words set out in Article 1 of this Act. The Government of the Republic of Croatia accepts this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7543	Thank you very much. It's a closed debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7544	Final draft law on the confirmation of a guarantee contract between the Republic of Croatia and the European Investment Bank for the financing of a gas system project in the Republic of Croatia investor Plinarro d.o.o., emergency procedure. The debate on the text is over. The amendment submitted by the Legislative Committee was accepted by the Proposer. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? My colleague Chehok doesn't have a periscope to see. I note that, unanimously with 133 votes for the adopted Law on the confirmation of the Guarantee Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and the European Investment Bank for the financing of the Gas System Construction Project in the Republic of Croatia, investor Plinarro d.o.o., in the text proposed by the Proposer together with the agreed amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7545	We can use the second item of the agenda. 2. Final proposal for a law confirming the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Belarus on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of the avoidance of income tax and property tax, with the Final Bill Proposal, the emergency procedure, first and second reading of P.Z. No. 53 The draft law of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, when establishing the agenda, has been adopted by the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of this law. You received the proposal by mail. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Rules of Procedure, the emergency procedure unites the first and second readings. You can put up with the amendments until the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Is Mrs. Delic in need? Here you go, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7546	The negotiations on this contract were conducted between 22 and 26 January 2001. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7547	Thank you very much. I have to find out that no one has applied for the hearing. The committees. Is there anyone on behalf of the Committee? There are no reports on behalf of the Clubs. I find that there are neither registered on behalf of the Committee nor for the legislation nor for the Finance nor for the State budget. I'm closing the debate. We can use the third item of the agenda.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7548	Second. Final proposal for a law on the consolidation of the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Belarus on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of the avoidance of income tax and property tax, emergency procedure, first and second reading of P.Z. No. 53. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? I find it unanimous with 132 votes to pass the proposed law.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7549	3. Final proposal for a law confirming the guarantee agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development for the Energy Accountancy Project, with the Final Proposal of the Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 59. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and the application of the emergency procedure for the adoption of this law has also been accepted. You received the proposal by mail. I remind you that the emergency procedure combines the first and second readings, that the amendments can be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, you received reports. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Mrs. Dalic, is there a need? Here you go, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7550	The guarantee contract was signed on 10 November 2003 on a loan guarantee of 4.4m euros. Borrower is Croatia's electricity industry, loan payment deadline is 10 years, starting 4 years. These funds will allow market development for the energy efficiency project in electricity and heat consumption. And it will serve as a basis for implementing a series of energy efficiency projects in end-users. Modernising and reconstructing buildings, plants, equipment to reduce electricity consumption and costs for that energy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7551	Thank you very much. We can start a discussion. On behalf of the Committee, legislation, finance, state budget? No one. Okay. We can start a debate on behalf of the clubs. On behalf of the HDZ Club, MP Krešimir Ćosic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7552	Dear Madam Vice-President, the energy efficiency project in the Republic of Croatia is particularly important for the modernisation of the energy sector in the Republic of Croatia. It is carried out by Croatia in cooperation with the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development and the Global Organisation for Environmental Protection with the United Nations and the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development. The project's objectives are to promote the application of energy efficiency measures in the Republic of Croatia, the employment of domestic companies, especially SMEs, in the technology sector, as well as the creation of domestic banks' interest in investing in energy efficiency and more environmental protection. Energy efficiency measures relate to the implementation, and to the modernisation of that part, reconstruction and replacement of existing facilities and facilities by using new technological solutions that require less energy consumption. Less energy consumption is needed, the need to produce and import energy, lower emissions of harmful gases and particles in the atmosphere resulting in greater environmental protection and support for the concept of sustainable development. The total value of this project is $40m over a 6-year period. The funds are secured through the loan of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development of EUR 4.4 million and the donation of a global organisation for environmental protection to the United Nations of $7m and domestic bank credits. The proposal for a law confirming the guarantee agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the IBRD for the Energy Efficiency Project with the Final Proposal of the Law, refers to a part of the loan amounting to $4.4 million, which is taken by Croatia by the electricity industry to implement the energy efficiency project. In addition, contracts were signed on 10 November 2003; the IBRD loan guarantee agreement of EUR 4,4 million between the IBRD and the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the EUR 4,4 million loan agreement between the IBRD and HEP and the IBRD-HEP project contract. It should also be noted that for this project, the Republic of Croatia has received the largest donation from the Global Environment Fund to the United Nations of $7m. The donation was awarded provided that $5 million is also given to Croatia's electricity companies for the preparation and implementation of this project and $2 million to the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development for Insurance of Guarantee Programmes when using the funds of domestic banks. Accordingly, contracts were signed on 10 November 2003; a $7m gift agreement and a $2m guarantee agreement aimed at HABOR. In order to implement the Energy Efficiency Project, Croatia established a special company HEP-ESCO. From the above mentioned HDZ Club, the proposal for a guarantee agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development provides support for the Energy Efficiency Project so that the contract itself can enter into force and that significant investment can be applied in the Croatian economy as soon as possible. In particular, it should be noted that these are significant investments that need and must be directed towards, according to the technology sector, which unfortunately is not sufficiently developed in the Republic of Croatia. These funds can also be a significant incentive for many scientific and other research institutions in the Republic of Croatia, and can also be a challenge for the academic community in the Republic of Croatia. Certainly without greater efficiency not only in the energy sector but without greater efficiency in many other sectors, there is no greater competitiveness in the Croatian economy. From all of this, full support from the HDZ Club to this project and providing the necessary guarantees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7553	Thank you very much. On behalf of the SDP Club, representative Ljubo Jurcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7554	Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. I would take this opportunity to say a little something, a few words about energy efficiency or efficiency and what the Croatian government has done over the past period. Constant concern about increasing energy efficiency is one of the fundamental components of sustainable development. By its nature, energy efficiency also contributes significantly to climate stabilisation and even reduces the adverse impact on the environment, thus contributing to sustainable development. The improvement of energy efficiency is defined by the International Energy Agency as reducing the energy used per product unit without affecting the quality of products or services. Today in international statistics, there are data on how much energy is used by 10 or 50 or 100 thousand gross domestic products and thus can be seen both energy efficiency and compared by different countries. The ultimate goal of improvement is not only greater technical efficiency in the energy system but also more efficient and quality energy service for the end consumer. Looking from the national level, it is important for both the company and other major energy consumption and the state itself. For companies, the cost of production, quality and price of products or services is always to a certain extent a function of energy efficiency. For the country, increasing energy efficiency is a priority for the rational use of natural resources, reducing energy imports or energy dependence, reducing the requirement for capital intensive projects to build new energy plants and reducing harmful environmental performance. General attention to this problem contributes significantly to the quality of strategic energy planning. At global level, the primary well-being is reflected in the ecological plan by a comprehensive increase in energy efficiency. The reduction of harmful emissions, primarily greenhouse gases, whose suppression is increasingly gaining importance in an effective and generally acceptable way is a characteristic that gives strong global support to rational energy use programmes. In addition, increasing energy efficiency contributes to the mitigation of potential energy crises. In developing and transition countries where Croatia also belongs, only improving energy efficiency is sometimes referred to as the fifth energy. One of the main problems facing our energy sector is the very low level of efficient energy use. In addition to inadequate and often outdated technologies and the consequences left behind by the socialist management of energy intensive production, waste management of energy, unrealistic energy prices, and so on, the biggest obstacle to increasing energy efficiency is the lack of organised access to contemporary knowledge from these areas and the lack of effective exchange of information. Although today specific energy consumption in Croatia is at a modest level the necessity of economic growth, with the lack of its own energy sources as well as the need to establish a more quality energy price policy with a growing awareness of environmental protection, it immediately and long-term imposes energy efficiency promotion activities. The lack of relevant information and the latest knowledge of general and technological development and of experience in the field of efficiency and awareness of environmental impact makes large consumers the main obstacle to improving energy efficiency. The larger companies usually consider that they have enough of their own, domestic knowledge from this area, and individual consumers, medium and small size themselves, do not have a quality source of information about this problem on the one hand, while on the other hand consider themselves to be a small isolated consumer rather than a part of the entire sector in their activities, so they do not give priority to this issue. Global insight into this area at international level shows that the latest initiatives launched in developed countries focus attention on a specific and effective approach to energy efficiency issues specifically at the establishment of so-called Energy grids. Such a network as an information, organisational and supervisory structure enables quality folding of the overall energy situation. Assessments of the situation in general and in individual groups of major energy consumers, and on the basis of collected highly reliable information, can allow the most appropriate approach to problem-solving. In its more developed phase, such a structure would have a significant impact on quality raising in the energy sector as a whole. With such intensity, the Croatian National Energy Programme was launched under the name of the industrial energy efficiency network. Its main objective is to promote and organise the action of an area of increasing energy efficiency in industry, service and public sector in Croatia. The basis of the network's action is to establish effective links between large consumers, energy producers of consulting houses and experts. Along with the other nine national programmes, the network of industrial energy efficiency stems from the development programme and the organisation of the Croatian energy sector, which the Government of the Republic of Croatia set in the strategy for the energy development of the Republic of Croatia, published in the National Journal of 2002. As one of the most important strategic tasks in the process of restructuring the economy and the development of the energy sector. In addition, the established legal institutional framework in the energy sector in the field of energy efficiency includes a series of legal and implementing regulations. Energy law of the Energy Regulation for the labelling of energy efficiency for household appliances and appliances. a programme for the effective use of energy The Act on the Environment Fund and the energy efficiency of the National Journal 107 of last year. This focus provides for the use of funds to finance environmental protection projects, energy efficiency and the promotion of the use of renewable energy sources. In the new legislative framework governing relations in the energy sector, energy law, electricity market law, the Law on the market in oil and petroleum products. The law on the gas market, and the Law on the regulation of energy activities of all published in 2001. The efficient use of energy has been established in line with the current state of the energy sector and developmental definition as the interest of the Republic of Croatia. It is also based on the implementation of the commitments and recommendations made by the international energy and environmental contracts, relating to the promotion of the implementation of the Energy Efficiency Programme, Article 101 of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the European Union and its countries, that assumptions will be provided for the fulfilment of the obligations to join the European Union. In addition, it is seen here that this guarantee, which on the agenda or guarantee contract, is issued for the financing of the energy efficiency project that will be implemented by the company as we heard earlier HEp... As part of the strategy for the energy development of the Republic of Croatia, Croatia established a new company HEP Esko d.o.o. in April 2002. for the management and financing of energy efficiency projects. The activities of HEP ESKA in line with the business plan and the analysis carried out by the Croatian market for energy efficiency projects are provided for the following activities. Preparation and implementation of energy efficiency projects for end-users of electricity in public institutions. Schools of universities, hospitals, residential buildings including thermal systems and industry. It also includes projects related to public lighting and water supply of cities. With regard to electricity consumption, projects will relate to reducing the peak energy loads and reducing electricity costs. Ensuring continuous education and training related to the preparation and implementation of energy efficiency projects, for all participants within and outside Croatia's electricity sector. The project's estimated duration is as we heard six years ago. The funding we also heard about earlier, according to the business plan HEP ESCO d.o.o. and an approved donation from the Global Environmental Protection Fund. The funding from the grant, the loan we're deciding on today, is foreseen. HEP's worth about a million dollars, and other investors from the commercial bank would be about $18m. The final result expected from the implementation of the overall project is the reduction of energy consumption and thus the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions in our country in our region. The development of the market for the energy efficiency project is particularly in the consumption of electricity and heat in the public and private sectors. With market developments, a number of positive effects would be achieved with regard to public and social national interest, such as employment of the domestic sector, about which my president is a bit of an oro. Development of small entrepreneurship by reducing unemployment, savings and rational use of energy particularly in the public sector, which has a direct impact on the rationalisation of budget spending. Increase the specific capacity of domestic producers through a reduction in energy prices and thus production prices. Mobilisation of domestic financial institutions in financing the new market, the drive to provide as much donation as possible in the Republic of Croatia. This Guarantee Treaty is part of a mosaic that has been built in the Republic of Croatia for several years with a purpose of increasing energy efficiency. It is not necessary to stress that the SDP club supports this Treaty. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7555	Thank you very much, dear colleague. There are no more registered deputies. If State Secretary Matina Dalic wants to speak to the MPs. Yes, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7556	I wanted to inform again that the Legislative Committee has adopted amendments of the nomotechnical character on Article 4 and Article 6 of this proposal. And those amendments are being accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7557	Thank you very much. The debate is closed.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7558	Third. Final proposal for a law confirming the guarantee agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development for a project of energy efficiency, emergency procedure, P.Z. No. 59. The debate on the text is over. The amendment submitted by the Legislative Committee was accepted by the Proposer. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? I find that the unanimous ace of 132 votes for the proposed law.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7559	I suggest we start with the 7th point. Seven. Proposal for a law amending the Food Act, with a final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading of P.Z. No. 57 The draft law is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Where the agenda is established, the application of the emergency procedure is accepted. I'm asking my colleagues for peace in the hall. You received the proposal by mail. The emergency procedure unites the first and second readings of the law. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry, the Committee on Economic Affairs, Development and Reconstruction, the Committee on Labour, Social Policy and Health. You received the reports at the session. Before we begin, I don't understand what you're saying to my colleague Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7560	Well, on behalf of the HSP Club, it's time for points 5 and 6 and not 7. There's the minister, the promoter's here unlike the first version. Why go to the food now when we can talk about flour?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7561	So I decided to tell you the truth so you wouldn't assume what it was about. There are fewer applications to amend the Food Act, and today we will work a little bit shorter, if you accept such an explanation. Thank you for understanding. I must admit that understanding is expected with this explanation. So is anyone answering on behalf of the board? No, I don't. Proposer of Minister Petar Cobankovic. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7562	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament allow me very briefly. You know that the Food Act provides for the establishment of a food agency and the Food Act provides for the headquarters of the Food Agency to be in Zagreb. Since the agency is not yet set up, and given the need for the development of the bodies and institutions of the Republic of Croatia to be formed in other regional centres, we propose that the headquarters of the Food Agency be in Osijek. Osijek, i.e. a wider region, has a long tradition in food production and the scientific and professional potential needed for the future activity of the Agency. This gives Osijek legitimate importance as a regional centre of the area recognised by agriculture and the food industry. For these reasons, the Government proposes that this Law amending the Food Act, which only has two articles, be changed to the headquarters of the Food Agency from Zagreb to Osijek. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7563	Thank you very much, Minister. Any reports from the committees? There isn't. We're starting a debate on behalf of the clubs. Club Libre, colleague William Herman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7564	Madam Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. It all points to the need to be as brief as possible, and I guess, and the debate because it ends early, but it also suggests a proposal for this law that has all this picturesquely given one single article. That's not bad in the sense that this article suggests, we must, of course, welcome, but I would warn, now no one is looking at me, but everyone is looking behind me. Of course at the presidential table, I'm sure. Okay, but what you're going to do is that's your destiny. I think this was still an opportunity, here's the trouble, that's... So what am I gonna do, I gotta get some attention. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Look, this was still an opportunity because we brought the Food Act into an emergency procedure, so without two readings, to pay attention, however, to the things we warned about during this hasty procedure, and that did not happen this time. So, with the fact that we welcome the government's proposal, although we welcome it by acclaim, I think there was still some warning to be taken, and now it was an opportunity to do so by really legal intervention in the bill's proposal. The promoter didn't, unfortunately, do it. In Article 30(1) of the Food Act, it is said that it must not be dangerous, we mean genetically modified, because at the time when we discussed the proposal of the Food Act it was also a hit topic, unfortunately it was a hit topic again. So once again, I'm going to say, that genetically modified food must not be dangerous to the health of end-users, and in addition, it must not lead to consumer delusions. Of course, this later in the law tries to be resolved by undoubtedly the same food that would contain these genetically modified organisms must be declared accordingly. This is obviously not done by us or done to a sufficient extent, or we don't know or do it enough because the inspections aren't on the one hand up-to-date, and on the other, when a warning happens that there is some kind of political panic. There are some strange messages, and it is said to be caused by public anxiety if it is warned that there are genetically modified organisms. I actually remind you of the case, although I don't think that's the case, I think it's a good situation when the Institute of Public Health is Osijek, look at these coincidences. The food agency is going to Osijek, and the Institute of Public Health in Osijek warns that some of the items will not mention which, without doubt, appear an increased amount of genetically modified organisms. It also confirms an independent institute from Italy and now this is what I called it, I guess it's not too harsh, if I care, political panic. He says he's upset with the public. What's disturbing the public? Whether messages that should not go to the public allegedly because of the functioning of the system or that it upsets the very public when an appropriate investment is calmed down, under quotes "settled" so as not to do what is simple and by conscience, and also by what the institution ex-lege must do under the law. Here's this casual warning, and it's actually very important about the article I'm talking about, as a warning from Mr. Minister and a request that, when we haven't done it today, we'll soon find ourselves in front of us a proposal on amendments to the Food Act that will increase, so to speak, health security because it's a matter of national importance. Is it pathetic to say that the issue of health is a national issue, national health is a matter of even national security. So there's no pathetics. In that sense, the proposal and the requirement to find ourselves on our benches soon, and perhaps we will do this initiative ourselves, the proposal of one, one such amendment of the Law that is here today, has only one article. The minister is very modest, because he is such, I remember colleagues from the County House, very modestly and too politely almost saying that in Osijek and Slavonia and Baranja she has been granted the right and obligations and in some ways a pleasure to take over this Agency. And that's exactly right. And not only does he have the good infrastructure of Slavonia and Baranja. Osijek has a university with the Faculty of Food and Technology, with a Faculty of Agriculture, extremely high results. It also has a Agricultural Institute and should not have been separated at any time whether the headquarters of the Food Agency in Osijek. And now what will a representative do than sometimes pretend to be important, so I will say that I gave this proposal, at the time when we had the Final Bill in the month 7, July of last year, but here, did not pass that proposal. Now it's happened. Thank you, Mr. Minister. Congratulations on that and I would like to say once again that I am alone on behalf of the Club of Libre, of course, proposing that this seat be in Osijek. I lobby for it, therefore, that you all vote that this proposal to the Wills of Herman on behalf of the Club of Libre, and it matches the Government's proposal, accept. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7565	Thank you very much, colleague. Let's move on with the debate. Now it's President Nenad Stazic's turn. I can't believe he's not in the hall. He's losing his word. Next, colleague Ivan Drmic. Here you go, my colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7566	Honored vice presidents, colleagues and fellow MPs. As a representative from Slavonia, I felt the need to say a few words briefly about the amendment of this Law. This amendment of the Law is not to be discussed much and there is little reason why it is necessary to support one such amendment of the Law that the headquarters of the Food Agency is moved from Zagreb to Osijek. Because everyone knows that Slavonia is one agricultural, one agricultural region and the region of food in our homeland. That most of the food products produced in Croatia are now produced in the region. We must also stress that it is also logical that one such Food Agency has its headquarters in Osijek, which is the main industrial and cultural centre of Slavonia. Slavonia certainly has scientific and professional potential because in Osijek it has long been active in the Faculty of Agriculture and also in the Food and Technology in which a number of prominent experts in the area work. These experts have also been very well addressed by their experience in the work to be done by this newly established Food Agency. So for one professional factor regarding Slavonia, no one needs to be afraid. In addition, I must point out that in Osijek there will be no problem in finding a satisfactory space for the work of the Food Agency, which is not the case in Zagreb, because we all know that there is a problem in Zagreb overriding certain state services and the problem is to find adequate accommodation not only for this Agency but for the normal functioning of the State Administration. This amendment to the Law and the transfer of the Food Agency’s headquarters to Osijek will allow the Food Agency to work as soon as possible because it does not need to in particular emphasize the function of this Agency, the kind of food we import today, as we export and is placed on the market. So, it is necessary that the work of this agency is functioning in the interest of all our citizens, and following what I have said, all the preconditions for its start in Osijek are already met so that there is enough to be an amendment to the law that we are about to vote here so that this agency will soon begin its work. In the end, I would just say that this amendment to the law is in the spirit of decentralisation of the state most of us advocate. So he would once again invite all MPs to support this amendment to the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7567	Thank you very much, colleague. A co-legislator, Vladimir Šišljagic, called for the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7568	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. The food law of July 2003, therefore, went on for about 8 months, has ordered the establishment of a Croatian Food Agency. Unfortunately, the former government was unable to establish and establish a function of the Croatian Food Agency, so the newly elected Government on the Food Agency was unfortunately found, I believe that the honourable representative, Mr Herman, will agree with that, another dead letter on paper. For what? Because the Croatian Food Agency is not set up. The location space in Zagreb has obviously not been solved yet and is therefore lost for more than 8 months. Since the quality and safety of food is of exceptional importance for the quality and healthy diet of the population, as well as for preventing transport-related diseases and food consumption, even possible epidemics, for example, as we had in Slavonia, trihinosis. The emergency draft of the Food Agency is a priority of particular importance and interest in protecting and raising the level of health of the population. Osijek is the fourth largest city in Croatia. The largest university centre of eastern Zagreb, a university in which is a long tradition, with a long tradition is also operated by the Faculty of Agriculture and Agricultural Institute, Faculty of Food and Technology, Medical Faculty, Institute of Public Health and a number of other universities and institutions that have both the necessary equipment and extremely enviable scientific and professional potentials, necessary for the activities of this Agency. Osijek already at this point, which is not negligible, has a problem with the location for the Agency's work. Osijek and Slavonian counties are recognized precisely by agriculture, food production and food industry and as such the foundation and backbone of the green-blue highway or axle that we talk so much about. And which aims, finally, to connect agricultural production and tourism in all segments. I therefore welcome and support the Government's proposal for the Food Agency's headquarters to be right in Osijek. This proposal, which I believe will support all parliamentary representatives, regardless of which political party they belong, represents a positive example of decentralisation and reflects in the best way the will and intention of this Government to develop all areas in the Republic of Croatia in an economic, cultural and scientific sense. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7569	Thank you very much, dear colleague. He is still registered for the debate, MP Bozidar Pankretic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7570	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, Mr. Secretary. So let me say a few sentences about this law. I didn't raise a plate for correcting an incorrect quote, because I knew I was behind a colleague, so now there's going to be a chance for me to say a few sentences and what he found out wasn't true. I must say that I should know that the food agency, I would say one of the most important institutions related to agriculture, and of course I am the law that has been passed and all those provisions that are in it I think in the future will do something that is extremely important for Croatia and in every respect. I can only mention the part that applies to control, which unfortunately today is objectively and is not at the level that is sought, and I believe that we will also make it impossible for certain goods to come to Croatia in the future, primarily food, which does not satisfy all the qualities that we should have. Not to mention those things that are dealt with by that law and that agency that relate to different overlaps. Mostly between the current veterinary inspection, sanitary inspection, and defining certain things. I would just say that the government in the former composition passed that law, and of course that law in its operationalization, and the agency itself has one more long-term character. By reading the good law, it would appear that for some things it would take three years to establish the agency itself. So that step we took, I would say very consistently was the preparation of the Governing Council, but we did not go to the appointment of the Governing Council, because it happened almost before the elections themselves and we felt, which we think is correct not to appoint an administrative council before the elections themselves, and we left it to the new government. Unfortunately, there has been a lot of time since then and again is the competition and the competition for the administrative council is being reopened, I sincerely hope that the same criteria will be put in place and respect what was done to make those three external members the most professional people according to those proposals that they were. I am personally, and the HSS Club is not opposed to this proposal, because I think it is good to give the utmost importance to Osijek, Slavonia, and I think it is a positive proposal in that part. But I cannot, however, without saying what was discussed on the committee itself, where some experts have warned both the government and the minister himself about what it means to move the agency specifically because of the institutions with which it must cooperate, which are definitely in Zagreb. Of course there were also very concrete proposals in that position that spoke about the need to decentralise, and... it was said that there were also certain parts of the ministry, such as the agriculture administration, for example, decentralise or relocate, put in Osijek, such as the fisheries management, for example in Split, etc. as one I would say a much more exact indicator of the decentralisation of the ministry itself. But in any case, we believe in the HSS that this proposal should be supported, but of course all processes related to the establishment of the Food Agency should be accelerated. Without the establishment of a food agency, unfortunately, we will have many more problems that previous colleagues have talked about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7571	Thank you very much, dear colleague. We have one correction to an incorrect quote. Representative Mršić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7572	So I would correct two incorrect allegations, or two previous speakers, that speak of decentralisation. decentralisation does not mean that an institution is a).
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7573	You can only correct the last representative who spoke before you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7574	But I am correcting it, but it also applies to the speaker before him, my fellow vice president. Therefore, decentralisation does not mean that an institution is moved from place (a) to place (b). But decentralisation means that powers are transferred to other lower administrative units in the country, so the transfer of one agency from Zagreb to Osijek or any other city, and the Ministry does not mean that the state is decentralised, the state will be decentralised when the powers are transferred to the county and cities, including money.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7575	Thank you very much, dear colleague, for your training. I suppose after a debate like this in which the minister received significant support, I find myself a representative from all sides. Excuse me, buddy, what are you calling for?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7576	The mill. I'd just like to let you know about this one, to commend this initiative.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7577	Excuse me. My colleague, I'm sorry you can't, but you have to apply for a hearing. I'm asking my colleagues for peace in the assembly. We were all here once for the first time. Please be quiet. Here's Mr. Minister, I assume after this significant support you'll want to address the MPs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7578	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I thank you for your agreement on the dislocation of the Food Agency's headquarters and I agree that this is not a decentralisation process. Decentralization would be if we put it down a little bit, so we have both under the county agency and similar agencies. and absolutely here I would like to point out once again that this ministry will seek to respect the needs of our agricultural producers as well as the needs of our consumers and that we will absolutely give priority to the final establishment of the Food Agency and this is only one small shift, where we are moving our headquarters into a region that is recognizable for food production on the one hand, but which I also agree with the predecessors of the representatives who have stressed that it has an extremely professional, highly professional potential and scientific institutions that can accompany just one such institution. Maybe I'll just say that we in the Ministry have opened a tender for the completion of three members of the class of scientists for the administrative board of the Food Agency. If we were to respect the normal criteria of what we should be and precisely be representatives of us in the board of directors, those who know the problem best and I would say the science of Croatia in part of the agricultural and food industry. So, the food agency, and according to that, the Food Act should be put into office as soon as possible. Because I think that's one way to protect, how our agricultural producers, but also consumers from I'd say consumption of non-quality products. Here I want to put emphasis on non-quality products, but also on the emphasis that this is one way of protecting domestic production, I would say conditionally excessive imports of non-quality food products. And in this way we will far better and better protect our consumers as well as our producers, and not unfortunately we no longer have the opportunity to close ourselves in our own backyard. We do not have the possibility to close and make decisions on the ban on imports from certain countries in artificial ways through customs, preambles and similar protection of the domestic market or under the exception of certain diseases. Here, this is what is necessary for Croatian agriculture but also for Croatian consumers to be sure that they will consume good and quality Croatians. Here, we did a little step in the process of dislocating, and I have pointed out on several occasions that I am a supporter of the process of dislocating certain institutions services, so let this be viewed as the beginning of such a process or one would say a little step in that direction. Thank you again for showing confidence and for accepting that the headquarters of such a significant institution for Croatian agriculture and food industry is located its headquarters in Osijek.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7579	I thank Mr. Secretary. I'm concluding a debate on this agenda point. My colleagues and colleagues, I would now be in agreement with part of the clubs, today would be over with the work. Tomorrow we'll continue with point 4. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families and then went to this point 6 and, 5 and 6, 5 and 6. Still, if there are any conditions for these two points coming in, 8 and 9, then with them, there will be no conditions tomorrow, because I think Thursday's session is scheduled. So if this point four, five and six, five and six, eight and nine were to end tomorrow, then we would go to these tax areas. Tomorrow at half past ten. Thank you very much. Half 10's nicer. [[In 10 they yell.]] The final draft law amending the food law emergency procedure of Law No 57, the debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? I find that it is unanimous with 128 votes for the adopted law amending the food law in the text as proposed by the Proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7581	4th item of the agenda is - Final draft law amending and supplementing the law on the rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 56, no minister. A fellow representative of Luka Bebić is here to report.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7582	I propose that, on the basis of Article 109. The Rules of Procedure, since there are no ministers and those who could represent and defend this Law here, are absent for legitimate reasons. I ask that we extend this item of the agenda further so that when the conditions are obtained, we continue with this item of the agenda.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7583	Thank you very much, dear colleague. I think the proposal is fully justified, there are no proposing representatives. There is no minister, no quality debate can be conducted under such conditions. I suggest we move on in the agenda. I suggest we start with the 7th agenda. That is, the Final Proposal of the Food Act, Correction of the Incorrect Allegation, colleague. Who are you correcting?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7584	It's possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7585	I'm afraid that's not possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7586	Because it is not true in accordance with Rule 109(3) of the Rules of Procedure if there are no representatives of the Government, then it is not true that we do not have the conditions not to discuss it. It's just how it can be decided. But it's not true that there are no conditions. After all, we remember what not only was the practice but the practice that properly applied this Rules of Procedure which had been in force before, how many times it had happened that there were no representatives of the Government and that a certain legislative proposal had been discussed.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7587	Thank you very much. You didn't correct me, because I said you couldn't have a serious debate. If there is no proposing representative, then we can't have a serious debate. So you haven't corrected the wrong quote, but I won't give you any warning.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7588	My colleagues and colleagues continue to work. According to the agenda, we go to: 4. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families, with the Final Proposal of the Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, Bill No 56. The Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. When establishing the agenda, we accepted the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of this law. You received the proposal by mail. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings of the Law. Amendments may be submitted until the end of the debate pursuant to Article 164. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by committees on legislation, war veterans and family, youth and sport. Reports you received at the session. I ask Mr Tomislav Ivic, State Secretary at the Ministry of the Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity to further explain the bill's proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7589	Thank you very much. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. First of all, an apology on behalf of Madam Vice-President and Minister Jadranka Kosor, who left for Madrid today for the memorial of the victims of terrorism and asked me to tell her about her absence at today's session of the Parliament. The law on the rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families, Articles 135, 136, 137, 138, 139, 139, provides for the translation of all the users of the disabled rights of Croatian military disabled persons from the Homeland War and the right to family disabled persons and disabled persons under this law, which are recognised under earlier laws and regulations. Article 135 provides for the translation of all beneficiaries of the right to cash compensation in respect of family disability, which they have acquired under the Law on the Rights of Croatian defenders from the 1994 and 1995 Homeland War and the Law on the Rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War of 1996. Article 136 provides for the translation of all users into residential care. In essence, this translation is nothing more than a kind of revision of all previously acquired rights which could and had to be resolved in a different way or by renewing the procedure or by abolishing and revoking a solution under the General Administrative Procedure Act. If new facts have been identified, new knowledge and so on. This way of reviewing all previously issued solutions has created unnecessary legal uncertainty and dissatisfaction among Croatian defenders, especially those who have acquired their rights in a legitimate way, and this is the large majority of cases. The Government therefore proposes that those articles be abolished, so that Articles 135, 136, 137, 138 and 139 be abolished, and that any disputed cases be resolved by other legal institutes. So this does not essentially mean that the revision of individual cases will not be substantial, but it is unnecessary because of individual cases to question the entire defence population. The funds necessary for the implementation of this Act are in the amount of 105 million kuna, as they remain in force under the provisions of Articles 140, 141, 142 and 143 and is the obligation of the Croatian Pension Insurance Office to coordinate pensions and disability pensions under those articles, but these funds are secured in the budget so that no additional resources are required, they would be paid in the next three years. And maybe as a back-up to what we're proposing, I'm just going to say the statistical indicators of so far, so far. Up to now, 4000 411 Croatian war cases have been processed, of which 1764 or 40% of the cases were reported, the percentage of damage to the organism was lower or the right was abolished. In the case of family disability users 527 or 27%, the status was abolished in 1968. When it comes to families imprisoned and missing 324 cases, 165 abolished status or 51% were family invalids. Meanwhile, the first rulings of the Administrative Court have arrived. I have one such verdict here in which the suit is respected, or the ministry's solution is annulled. This will be the case in the vast majority of these cases, so I believe that it is absolutely justified, and also financially more useful to abolish the provisions of the Law because this will solve two problems. We will remove the dissatisfaction and uncertainty of Croatian defenders because of regular and frequent audits, and I do not think it is financially doubtful that this second variant for the country itself and the State budget is more useful. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7590	Thank you. Do the Committee's rapporteurs want to? The chairman of the War Veterans Committee, Mr Vlado Jukic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7591	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. The Committee for War Veterans of the Croatian Parliament at its 4th session held on 22 March 2004 discussed the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Rights of Croatian Lawyers from the Homeland War and members of their families submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The Committee held the hearing as the home working body in accordance with Article 81 of the Rules of Procedure. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The Committee agreed with the existence of, in particular, justified reasons for the reverse operation of the provision of Article 7(2) of the proposed Law. The Committee's meetings were also attended by representatives of associations from the Homeland War. The draft representative explained the proposed amendments and additions to the suspension of the procedure for the translation of the invalidity rights of Croatian war invalids from the Homeland War and members of the family of the deceased Croatian defender from the Homeland War or in the annulment of the final solutions made in translation if the termination of the recognised right is established or the scope of the right is reduced. The payment of outstanding incomes within 3 years of the entry into force of the Law shall be provided for to all users who are damaged in translation. The possibility of translation of pension rights has been left, but only in case it is more favourable for the user. The proposed amendments and additions require significant financial resources ranging from 105 million kuna. There is also information that 62% of the translated solutions in the personal disability process were negative. The right has been reduced or abolished, or 41%, as regards family disability. The Court of Justice of the Republic of Croatia is covered by the defence suit against the competent ministry and is expected to pass judgments on the same basis soon. These amendments and the additions of the Law seek, among other things, to bring about the injustices committed to the defenders and to restore them to the rights previously recognised or acquired. Representatives of the Homeland War associations welcomed the suspension of translation, noting that it was fire-fighting measures. which solves the problems of the largest part of the defence population, i.e. the victims' population. They took advantage of the occasion and stressed the need to speed up the work on making a new Law on the rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families, but not at the expense of the quality of this law. They stressed that the amendments to some implementing rules, for example, The rules on the determination of percentages of damage to the organisms of the Croatian War Disableds from the Homeland War with a list of percentages of damage to the organism may affect the position of defenders. Some of the associations also requested the abolition of Articles 140 and 147 of the applicable law, which provides for the translation of pensions and Article 150 of the section relating to Article 75. The law. The members of the Committee in a brief debate supported the proposed amendments and amendments to the law, with an emphasis on correcting the injustices done to Croatian defenders through the continuous revision of their status. After the debate, the Committee unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament, to draw conclusions. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The law amending and supplementing the law on the rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families, there are particularly valid reasons. Another conclusion is the adoption of laws on amendments and additions to the rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7592	I thank the president of the Committee. The other two committees of rapporteurs want to further explain their report? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. First debate by clubs on behalf of the IDS Club, respected representative Damir Cain, please welcome.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7593	Honored Mr. President, the esteemed representatives of the government, distinguished gentlemen of the council. Well, here it was expected that HDZ would try to amend this law on the rights of Croatian defenders according to its pre-election performance. It was also expected to stop HDZ from revising defence rights because somewhere around 35% of wartime wartime disableds did not undergo an audit, perhaps along the way they wanted to or wanted to discredit the former minister. But now it's less important. Of the 400,000 defenders, about 33,000 are Croatian military disabled. Of those 33,000 somewhere, about 10 thousand sufferers from PTSD. If 35% of them haven't been audited, it turns out 10 thousand 11 grand failed to defend their disability status. In the past four years, certainly the most escalated case of revision has been the case of Mr. Darko Bestek today as advisers at the Ministry of Defence. I was saying before 2002, 2001, I'm saying this today that the revision of the rights of disabled people is never going in cases where disability is undeniable. It's irrelevant to the state budget, so if you want the nation's morale if 90% of the disabled are found 100% of the disability. That may sound rough, but it doesn't matter to me. What would be tragic is if 100% of the disabled were determined by, say, 90% of the disability and each case is so specific that it's very difficult to say if someone with disabilities is 82.%, 62.8 or I don't know anything like that. What we need to do is to thank these people for making the sacrifice, what needs to be done is to appreciate that sacrifice. Without their sacrifice clearly neither Croatia nor Croatia would have been defended. And no one can question that. It is also true that the great media attention and when this Law on the Rights of Croatian Defences was changed in 2001 means that great media attention was slaughtered or given to the generals wounded outside the battlefield. Through them, we can say that in some ways it's going to be audited. For example. Such disability was acquired by generals Slavko Barić, Zivko Budimir, Ante Budimir, Ilija Maričić, Mate Laušić, Ivan Tolj, Mirko Shandor, Marko Kakarigi and so on. After they lost their status in front of the so-called. The Commission's majority of them also challenged the Commission's findings by the State Secretary to the Administrative Court. And now that's the point of this law as we understand it at the IDS club. If there was no proposed amendment to the revisions, meaning in this Act, the revision would definitely affect those people, but certainly thousands of other people with disabilities. We must admit that there have also been catastrophic errors in determining the status of war people with disabilities. For example. as a journal recently reminded us, such a status clearly with the responsible apartment also belonged to Zvonimir Skender, one of the drug lords of the Croatian drug market. It is clear that one Scander must not throw an anthema at an entire play of honorable braves in the war of the victims. With which certainly none of the Croatian citizens liked to replace themselves in their tragedy despite the fact that many often mention certain fees. This law also speaks of the fact that future status of someone with disabilities will be disputed exclusively in front of the Croatian judiciary, as it also says that retro is active for those who have hit so-called. The audit has a return of 105 million kuna through various damages. And that's the essential provision of this law. But we keep at the IDS club that this provision is not the most important thing. The 105 million kuna budget cost will certainly not be the only one. A far greater problem and cost will be affected by PTSPA, which will later appear. Patients with PTSD could have reported such diagnosis to the competent authorities by 2002. After that, it means the former PRSP authority has confessed but only with skill. And we at the IDS club see absolutely nothing controversial... that the very top of the ministry is being instructed that the medical commissions have to deal with all such cases positively. Supposedly, the ministry issued a recommendation whether or not orally or in any other form that a new PTSPA should be recognised without skill between 20% and 40% of disability. If that's the case, the number of people with disabilities with 33,000 will almost increase to 40,000 at this time. But this will certainly increase budget expenditure by perhaps 500 million kuna which will be additionally needed in the state budget. I'm saying that correct revision certainly wasn't a particularly pronounced problem. For me, it's a far bigger problem, let's say, canceling part of what's called. rights acquired if that's what happened, and it's come to pass. Although I do not think clearly of some customs benefits. I'm going to say that the huge problem of the environment I come from means from Istria, the River of the Primorian Mountain County, is that HDZ's government took away so-called in 1991. acquired rights to the National Liberation War fighters. An even bigger problem is that the invaluable People's Liberation Fight this power and not even past is not ready to return part of the so-called. rights acquired. It would be fair if at least the disabled NOB were equaled with the Invalids of the Domkovinski War because the hand I don't know of someone partisan who lost 42nd in the area of Buzet is as valuable as the hand of a young man who lost in the defense of Gospic is not ready to return part of the so-called. rights acquired. It would be fair if at least the disabled NOBs were equaled with the disabled of the Homeland War, because I don't know the hand of a Partisan who lost it in 43rd in the area of Buzet is as valuable as the hand of a young man who lost it in the defense of Mice 93. Finally, Istria, Rijeka, islands, Zadar, Međimurje were re-integrated into the Croatian people's national corps thanks to those people who participated in the anti-fascist coalition. So when, for example, the Prime Minister from Jasenovac sends a civilized message condemning a crime, then this House would have to rise above that gesture and even those people in line with the participants of the Homeland War. Until this is done, the painful division of this or that ideology will be present in Croatia and will in some way evaluate the world. Unfortunately, according to these people, even the former government was not too correct. I received one reply a few days ago from the Prime Minister that for all users, therefore members of the Partizan troops and members of the Homeland Army, the civilian disabled of World War II and the Homeland War, and the peacetime military disabled, it would be necessary to provide an additional amount of about 43 million kuna, and only for wartime wartime people of around 23.6 million kuna continue to suffer from the tension in the expenditures of the state budget for 2004. So this is about 70 million kuna. These are ridiculous under quotes of ridiculous means, and there is only a question of goodwill whether this will correct a historical mortgage of former governments or continue to be such an unsustainable condition. Also, and you all know what I think about the Croatian-Bosnian conflict in BiH, I believe that young people from that country who have residence in Bosnia and Herzegovina, in a way, have executed the orders of the late president, the late minister or Croatian officers, deserve to be paid off by Croatia. It's not any heresy. That's what these people, if the victims deserve it, and they've finally had some funds in the state budgets for them before. And now to take an Istrian example. For example, through the so-called case. Italian pensions, which are based on bilateral agreements between ex-Yugoslavia and the Republic of Italy, clearly account for cca 8 thousand citizens in the territory of the Republic of Croatia, i.e. 4 thousand Slovenian citizens. The disabled also have the right to determine the status of disabled persons, because if someone has become disabled in Albania or Ethiopia by order of the Italian authorities then, it is understandable that the new Italian government, which absolutely has no ideological links with the 43rd, assumes obligations for those unhappy states and that is what one means I will call it the world standard. When we speak to these pensions, I mean those pensions that our citizens are from the meanings of Istria, Rijeka, Zadar, etc. They have acquired all one thing in the Republic of Croatia or ex-Yugoslavia, and they have served a modern army in Italy. I think so much that people with disabilities from Bosnia and Herzegovina, I am talking about people with disabilities who have performed the orders of Croatian officers or officials, should also be compensated. The existing law stipulates a reduction in the meaning of personal disability, orthopaedic supplements also make some changes, in the care and assistance of another person if one's war route does not prove that the wound occurred on the battlefield, but that someone has cynicalally noticed it with a charge on peaceful roofs, although it is clear that if someone was killed in the transport from the wartime to the battlefield, you were killed in the performance of the defence task and it is clear that something such should not have been touched, and what it shows, among other things, before the court was cited. The translation of disability rights according to some of the data I have succeeded, which I have managed to obtain in the media, has led to about 4,600 defenders, and for 1,600 defenders, these rights have been completely abolished or reduced. It is now announced that this translation will be suspended and completely stopped. All in all, after a controversial review of disability, we now have a conflicting law before us, which is completely halting. The law itself will be convinced to support defense associations in part to call it the return of acquired rights. In that part for both IDS and finally if it's been almost 10 years since the war, it's time not to constantly question under quotes, history. However, this law will open up the possibility of obtaining disability through PTSD. It's certain that somewhere around 7, 8, maybe thousands of people will take advantage of that status. This is certainly not perspective for Croatia, although it is indisputable that a PTSD may occur after 10 years of the end of the war. This legislative proposal certainly requires that under quotes rather than correcting certain errors, the distinction between the Homeland War fighters on the one hand and, for example, the disabled from the NOB is strengthened and that is why we will be restrained. Finally, real people with disabilities like the opportunities to read in the media have absolutely nothing against the revision, and yet they are calling for the revision itself. What is inadmissible in this proposal of the law is one far-fetched argument, so we were simply forced to do more through certain articles that went out in the media than through the text of the law itself, and I beg you so much I do not know the competent ministry that in the future at least more complete explanations are delivered to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7594	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative Ivan Jarnjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7595	It is incorrect to say that Mr. Cain is one of the reasons possible, in order to change this law, to try to discriminate against the former defence minister. I denied myself through my argument. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7596	On behalf of the Club of HSP MPs, respected representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7597	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen. What to say about the final proposal of this law? First of all, it is important to say that in January of this year when we gave our amendments, and the Deputy Prime Minister has asked us to withdraw, that the government will prepare amendments and amendments to that law, that they must consider the need to interrupt the process and the course of translation because translation is an additional form of revision and the creation of enormous costs to the state. This is not an audit in the sense that someone who is based on untrustworthy documents, means, forged, forged medical records, acquired status. We have always advocated this revision, and everyone advocates it, and it is always necessary to carry out and do it. Because someone can't have a status if the need is falsified, if the medical records are falsified and all other things. Therefore, translation should be distinguished from this form of revision. In order for this form of revision that we are talking about, which Mr. Cain spoke about, to do what is necessary, which has been done for 5 years and has not been done, to make a defence register, and in this way it will be very easy to get all the concrete information about whether or not someone has obtained the status on the basis of an unworthy dossier, meaning forged certificates. This, at the time of Minister Njavre, and I, while in the ministry, worked and thus 4 and a half thousand statuses were abolished because it was properly proven that the certificate was falsified, or untrustworthy. And such, such solutions did not fall in the Administrative Court of the Republic of Croatia unlike the Government Commission's case where more than 80% of the solution fell in the Administrative Court, and such a situation will be, or will not be, because we will abolish this translation because of the fact that there has been no normative action of what has to be done or a register being made. And the worst thing was that members of the Croatian party's rights and HDZ were invited to translate just before the election campaign. We have a case of our representative here, Mr. Krapian, who already has a third call to go to translation. So, what did we do in all this? We did it, on the other hand, we have a statement that we have to obey the law, right? Therefore, the ministry was required to initiate a misdemeanor procedure against Mr Krapjan because he did not report to the Commission and had to report. Therefore, if we want the rule of law to function, then we must allow the rule of law to function at all levels. We are pleased for the sake of Croatian defenders and for our programme that the government has accepted other parts of our programme and our requirements, which is part 900 and some of the apartments have remained uninhabited because of the fact that the disabled people of the Homeland War and the family cannot have, have no guarantees to get through the loan, and the government has made it possible to settle this part temporarily, by adopting a new law, by renting it, and after that, it will be fully resolved. We are also pleased that the government has accepted our share related to reducing the price of a square meter, the truth only in areas of special state concern, but something has been done. But what is there to say? What's all this? It's just one drop in a sea of accumulated problems. Only one drop in the sea, and these are palitative measures that have limited range. It refers to 40,000 persons with disabilities, related to families of the deceased, related, means, for persons with disabilities, or family and pensions. And on the other hand, today, we have the unemployed children of the dead Croatian defenders, we have a significant number, over 40,000 unemployed Croatian defenders who have no guarantees how and how they will be employed, is all that has been done lately in the recruitment of Croatian defenders is unfortunately nothing, because it has not worked systematically and planically in the way it should be done. So, what do you say? The worst thing we've said a long time ago is it's impossible to fix a bad and inconclusive and irreparable law, but we're getting into this situation. We said, we have our Law on the Rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families who passed the first reading. The government said she had her own law. Now it turns out he's not here yet, that's his law. Okay, it's supposed to be working, but 100 days goes by. We have a situation, we have a state budget. It is evident that this year there is no possibility of repairing the legal position of Croatian defenders and members of their families. So, the law will be passed this year, and when it applies, and if it applies, we'll see when we get a state budget for next year. Therefore, we can no longer wait or wait for Croatian defenders or children of the dead Croatian defenders. We stick to our words, after 100 days we go with our bill in procedure. For the last time in the state budget, we said there was a reserve, it's those 5 thousand and 100 pensioners they don't have, somewhere around a thousand there's no status as a Croatian defender. The others do not have the status of a Croatian military disabled from the Homeland War, and there are internal reserves that can improve the legal position of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families this year. Therefore, we have come to a situation where we really must move decisively, and we will not speak, we will now, so we have restored dignity to the Croatian defenders. Come on, now we're going to analyze how dignity has been restored to the Croatian defenders. I will mention again the case of Janja Majura, the mother of the two dead Croatian defenders. Since 12 months, Dr. Turic, me and my colleague Zdenka have been asking for what she deserves to be paid off. It has a final and materially rightful second-degree solution. And to this day, that problem has not been solved. She calls me, she calls me, and she means three parliamentary deputies. Two of the ruling parties and I are asking the opposition to resolve the issue, it has not been resolved to this day. What can I say, in the office days that we Croatian party representatives exercise rights, so people come to us and tell us the next variant. I was in the Ministry yesterday, the day before yesterday, and then he was upset that there were no Croatian defenders in the name, and we were warning the same thing. And they promised me, it'll be all right, the second day gets a solution to take everything away from him. Is that the same return of dignity? That's the kind of example I have for a small million. I'll tell you about the case of the defender of the one who, uh, has 700 kuna pension. Why? It couldn't be achieved because of the illness because it's not extended, the defender who's really sick makes a civilian pension, has 700 kuna, has three children and a woman, no one works. He's incapacitated because he's retired. He has a civilian pension. He's looking for first-degree supplies, he's getting supplies. In the second degree during this government, this government ministry has suspended him and said he's able to work. And now he's asking who's crazy? How am I now able to work, if they've made me feel that I'm not able to work? And such situations, I could talk to you all day and Mr. Jukic, and Mr. Djapic and Mr. Pejo Trčević, who, as representatives of the Croatian Party of rights, maintain the office days. And therefore, the problems from day to day are getting bigger. This is part of the ignition, but what is it? You remember that the Prime Minister himself said somewhere at the 12th month of the real session, we're going with the Law on the Rights of Croatian Defence from the Homeland War. He's not here today either, he won't be here any longer, but as laws are being made, because evidence and this evidence that we have to go three again, the Committee on Legislatives with three amendments. This is, but it's a little better than that, you'll see the laws of others coming to this session of the Parliament. So we're changing almost half the content, and there was time. And yet it is forgotten to make a different variant, because look, the translation is done, but what about the period of the Homeland War is different in the applicable Law on the rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families than the Law of Defence. So this is the period 1.1.91 to 31 December 95, and the period of the Homeland War according to, therefore, to the parent law, the Law on Defence is May 30th 90th to 30th of June 96. And now if this law continues to exist, rightly everyone will ask a question, all those who have suffered means before, and it was... The Homeland War or by the end of a peaceful reintegration, you should, as part of the renewal of the procedure, take those rights away from people because they did not die during the Homeland War, as the law now states. So when you did that for two months, you could also notice and correct those things. Therefore, the problem is becoming more and more visible. If this were a truly palitative measure, where it can't be, and I'd still have to say it doesn't solve anything again, because let's just say the next one. One part got a pension under the law of the former, and O.K. And now what happens is, let's say, this is a particularly interesting code and significant in family pensions, the child ends up in education and normally runs out of pension rights, and then a new pension calculation is done, but not on the basis of the pension, but on a new basis, and the new basis is that the pension is made according to the rules on active military persons, not the way it was paid, or the Guard supplement. Therefore, it is evident that all that was to be solved has not been resolved. and slightly speaking of us as the Club of Representatives, this situation is more unsustainable and we can no longer wait on behalf of Croatian defenders and everything else, to wait so long for the new law to be passed, and after 100 days we go with our law. You can all participate, we can all agree on all the clubs, but let's make the law emulate first, that it's enforceable and that it's what it's supposed to be. And finally, I have to tell you one important thing, which is that, you remember that in January when we talked about the adoption of this law, we proposed to the Government that for our defenders generals, who were charged and who came under new indictments that we had proposed the Croatian Parliament had voted to establish an expert commission to provide legal and other assistance, and it was obvious that this was well-repeated, because the Deputy Prime Minister himself said that this was an important difference between the former government which was working on that part and this part, but that meant it was on the proposal of the HSP Club. We have further suggestions, because we cannot allow the real truth of the Homeland War to be found out in the world, what will our President Ante Djapic end up talking about in the final word. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7598	Thank you. On behalf of the HSLS Club, DC-respected representative Mate Brletić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7599	Mr. President of the Parliament, gentlemen of the authorities, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. In my presentation, I'm going to talk about people, volunteers, defenders and cops. That created Croatia's state, in the fight for its independence, and survival in these areas where it has been for more than a thousand years. They defended Croatia against the aggressor Yugoslav army and Chetnik hordes. Third largest military force in Europe. It was defended in the areas of Vukovar, Slavonia, Banovina, Like, Dalmatia and Dubrovnik. They were wounded on those battlefields, killed, died on the hands of their comrades and commanders. We swore to each other that he would free his country from the enemy, and that he would live a better life as soon as the Homeland War ended. After 6 years of war, the aggressor has been defeated and Croatia is free, destroyed and burned. Many of them died on the battlefield. Many of the injuries left permanent people with disabilities, impaired health, who go from hospital to hospital to cure themselves. Those who were not wounded were suffering from PTSD war syndrome, an incurable disease. The high-ranking officers are going to The Hague today to be tried for fighting for their country. Which was their duty. While others are being tried in the homeland, it's probably their fault that they're still alive. The majority of wartime disabled persons exercise their pension rights under the Law on the Rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families. However, the amendments to the law, the criteria for obtaining disability pensions, have changed, there have been major differences between then and today's pensions, which have led to controversy and impatience among the defenders themselves. As the Governments in Croatia changed, changes followed, additions to the law, but to the harm of the defenders. In order to achieve their rights to lead disputes against the state's institutions, these disputes have been going on for years. During that time they live in misery, poverty, no income whatsoever. Because of all the above, many of them are taking their own lives every day. And the reason for that is the personal indifference and indifference of their families. They pray and seek their rights and always get the same answers. Obsolete medical records, war routes, unsigned by warlords, and even in war units that didn't exist or can't achieve the status of defenders, because the commander doesn't remember them, and the list of units has been lost. A part of the defenders are beggars in large cities and support their family from charity, and we are eyewitnesses of such events. Whose interest is that? Who's to blame? All governments for the time being and its institutions, trombones, bureaucratic apparatus, individuals in charge of working on the rights of defenders, but not doing so, but invent ways to abolish acquired rights, form commissions, audits, to reduce the percentage of disability below 20% and lose pensions. What about the rights of defense attorneys who haven't been wounded, who spent six years on the front line of the battlefield? Today they are at the Employment Service, looking for a job, a large number of older defenders will no one receive in employment, and some of them have received a civilian pension of between 700 and 1500 kuna. What rights do they have? Why don't they have a defense volunteer supplement? The DC and HSLS Club supports the amendments and additions of the Law on Defences and proposes that all volunteers, defenders be given monuments of the Homeland War, a monetaryally founded prize by the Croatian government in the amount of thousands of kuna, and more, depending on the length of the war effort, and up to 1500 kuna. I believe that today's Croatian government will amend the Law on Defence, and will pass a real law that will satisfy our defenders. In this honorable house today, there are parliamentary advocates who have been defenders, and it is their duty to care, to make this law as best as possible, and for our defenders to be satisfied. Also sitting are parliamentary representatives whose sons, children, brothers, and parents and grandchildren died in the Homeland War. We believe that we will achieve consensus and unity of the right law at will and that this population of defenders will probably be satisfied, this will be the contribution of the Croatian government that is in power today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7600	I'd like to thank my colleague Brletic. On behalf of the HSS Club, the esteemed representative of Zdenko Harami. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7601	Dear Mr. President, gentlemen of the government, dear colleagues and fellow MPs. Before this House came the Government's proposal to amend and supplement the Law on the rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families. Although this was expected, for us at the HSS Club, the way the amendments and additions are proposed is in some sense a surprise. On 19 October 2001, the Croatian Parliament adopted the Law on the Rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families, which introduced the Institute of Translation of all persons with disabilities of Croatian War invalids from the Homeland War and the right to family property, then all beneficiaries of the right to cash compensation in the amount of family disability, and all beneficiaries of housing from earlier regulations on the rights laid down by that law. The Institute of Translation, which actually represented some kind of revision of all solutions made under previous regulations. He came across a favourable echo in the section of the public mainly in the ranks of defenders and defense associations. Since this was a way to address the situation among users of rights under previous regulations, there was doubt that all users of these rights did not acquire rights on the basis of valid and credible documentation or in a proper and legal manner. It should point out that the number of people using different rights from any title under the law on the rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families has grown to over 35,000 in time. While the overall number of defenders has increased to over 440 thousand, which raises certain doubts about the basis of the exercise of rights. It is a large number of users who do not use their rights up to maximum. If we take the average salary as an index of 100. The rules stipulate that users under the Law on the Rights of Croatian Lawyers from the Homeland War and family members are paid an index of 166 that has never really crossed the index 130, which is due to the lack of funds in the state budget they burden and users who should have no right to do so. If the number of administrative objects that have been translated into a new law and were about 4 thousand are taken as one representative sample, then the figure of about 150 administrative objects which have been solved negatively or inadequately for users is indicated to be extremely large but is done, or is about 35% of all processed objects. One part of such solutions ended up at the Governing Court of the Republic of Croatia, which settles according to complaints in the administrative dispute. So by the end of 2002, so it's been a year since the beginning of so-called. Translations were filed on 319 cases of which 53 were rejected and 150 were respected, indicating that the translation process was justified and that among 35 thousand users were found to be those who used rights that did not belong to them. Of course, all of this went to the heart of those who rightly were the other users of rights both in the past and in the new regulations. Therefore, the proposed Supplement and the amendment on the rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families for us in the HSS even though the expected represents in a certain sense a surprise. Article 7 The proposal for a law is prescribed that solutions are introduced in the translation procedure by means of the provisions of the translation of the recognised rights referred to in Article 1 of this Act when the termination of recognised rights is established or the right recognised in a minor extent by a final decision shall be annulled by the basis of this Act if the final decision before the translation of the status and the right is recognised permanently. It's clear why we're surprised. In this article, the proposal for a law is subject to the law of the solutions that have been abolished by the power of decisions of both the administrative authorities and the Administrative Court of the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, these procedures clearly establish illegality in the adoption of contested solutions which are now becoming legal again despite all this. So the bill contains an article that is essentially illegal because it legalises something that is illegal. Unless the promoter himself would consider the illogical nature of this provision, we reserve the right to ask the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia for the question of legality. We believe that the translation procedure that was initiated by the law in October 2001 was, however, positive that it pointed to irregularities or illegalities in the adoption of a number of solutions based on the rights of the state budget and as I said earlier it went directly to the damages of those users who had acquired this tats in a valid and true way. They themselves are aware that in their ranks they have those who do not deserve such concern of the state and that they are in some way demeaning and insulting the intensities of the legislator who is the participants of the Homeland War, the defenders and their families and who are the legal basis for using their rights to get hurt, severe injury, mutilation or death, or have suffered from post-traumatic syndrome, defenders and defence associations have launched an initiative to examine certain solutions that have been made possible by the translation process. Following this, we believe that translation should continue because it has been done exclusively with the aim of eradicating users from the ranks of those who do not deserve these rights and by allowing true and real people with disabilities and people with disabilities as well as those with post-traumatic syndrome to use in the full scope of the rights given to them by the legislator. For these reasons, the Croatian Peasant Party Club will vote against the proposed changes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7602	I'd like to thank my representative, Haramia. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Pero Kovacevic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7603	I'm sorry that he's a fellow lawyer and doesn't understand the concept of material power of formal power. Because when it comes to formal power, it can always be reacted and material power is another situation when someone has acquired rights or obligations. And about what he's saying, it's not true at all because in translation we only have one verdict and he's talking about, knowing about a party colleague, Mr... where 80% of the solution has fallen to the administrative court, yet it has incorrect data. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, let us protect the integrity of not the persons.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7604	On behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Club, Honored Representative Josip Djakic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7605	Dear Mr. President, Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. The Croatian Democratic Community Club without reserve supports the Government's Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Rights of the Law on the Rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families. The need to adopt these amendments and additions stems from the undisputed fact that, through the translation of acquired rights in real practice, all rights acquired have been audited. Such an audit has caused enormous damage to the population of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families. And in the extreme translation institute, unnecessary legal uncertainty has been produced and the enormous dissatisfaction of all those users who have legally obtained the law prescribed by the law on the rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and the members of their families and other regulations. It is unacceptable for a population of the most responsible but also other citizens to experience humiliating procedures for the ongoing review of acquired rights and public appeal with... The camera and the press. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, eradicating the provisions governing the translation of users of rights acquired under the Law on the Rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families and other regulations governing the rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families, possible illegalities in the acquisition of those rights will be removed by applying other legal institutes that apply to all other citizens in respect of the different rights recognised to them by the resolution of the competent authorities. This proposal to suspend all procedures for the basic translation provisions to be deleted, which are not completed by a final and adjudicated solution and the rights of users shall be established before the rights acquired and the payment of unpaid receipts shall be prescribed. The need to delete these provisions on the translation of the law on the rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families and thus to remove the dissatisfaction of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families, as well as the review of the rights granted to them, shall be governed through a legal system applicable to similar or other rights of all Croatian citizens is a valid state reason for this law to be adopted by an urgent procedure, to, in effect, take effect on the day of its publication in the “National Journal” and to prescribe a provision under which the beneficiaries of the money rights that they are subject to, by way of... a law which is deleted from the payment of outstanding cash rights and is a provision with feedback. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] We also welcome what is happening in Articles 140, 141, 142 and 143 where the word is added, the supplement is added to, which reads: “if it is for the user, if it is more favourable to the user”. And this will correct a series of different interpretations that were, each interpreted by the law in its own way, each office of the state administration had its own vision and interpretation of certain articles of the law, and it also acted so that the mistreatment which, according to someone's instructions, came to a culmination so that these changes and additions of the law, we certainly achieve that Croatian defenders in the future will experience their rights as well as the parents of the dead, as well as widows of the dead surely in peace and peace living without calling, without recording how generals are falsely disabled, and let us remember the example of Mr. General Marinović who has a stroke in his head when he was publicly called by Minister Pancic that he is a disabled. Like Darko Bestek, it was a false disability, and it was not a false disability at all, but rather a administrative procedure which, which even former Minister Pancic did not know at all, spoke up and muddyed the name of an honorary colleague, Croatian defender Darko Bestek. We therefore welcome these, this urgent process of amending and supplementing the laws, and we want further measures to be proposed in the subsequent amendments and additions to meet the needs of all Croatian defenders. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7606	Thank you, Mr. Dwarf. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative Ivica Pančić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7607	I'd like to correct Mr. Djapic's incorrect quote where he says I was talking about fake people with disabilities and then list some names. I've never used that term. It is precisely if someone spoke in this context of Croatian wartime disableds that they were then members of the opposition HDZ, today the ruling one. I've always talked only about the findings of the government's commission. And here you have mentioned one case, so I would like you to read also the ruling of the Administrative and Constitutional Court, which confirmed the findings of the government's commission, where officials, ministerial assistants, are sitting who are still doing business today in this current HDZ government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7608	On behalf of the Libra Club, Honorable Representative Jozo Radoš.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7609	Mr. President, colleagues and fellow MPs. I think it can be said, speaking of this Law, that a political decision has been made to no longer go into the revision of the disabled Homeland War. Because these regular opportunities that the administration leaves in this sense are absolutely not enough for this revision to be carried out and, while that is, the only good fact is that after 12 years of the most difficult, most difficult aggression on Croatia and it is time for this issue to be resolved once. The only problem is that I think it is, and of course it is the view of the Libra Club that this issue is not settled in the right way. Remember well when we are talking about the history of the tried and never the revisions of Croatian wartime wartime disabled. It should be remembered that the statement here in the Croatian Parliament was made 7 or 8 years ago when there were 15 thousand Croatian military disabled, by the leaders of the then majority Association of Military Disabilities, that at least 30% of those disabled are false. At that time, as you remember, you who followed the process began to review the Croatian military inalidos. It was the year 1997, I think. It is called the “Cervenk Commission”, a committee that rested on the awareness that it is necessary to distinguish between those who are truly wounded, who are disabled from the Homeland War and the team to give all the honors, all that the state can give them and protect such people who have given themselves to the homeland from those who since the war and their non-participation in the war are making politics and personal breakthroughs. It was the Commission's idea, however, that the commission did not have enough political support, and was badly and legally resolved. The commission has only acted for a year under the law. Within a year, the commission failed to resolve, carry out an audit of all people with disabilities in the Homeland War at the time, but only half of which, of course, led to an unequal position in relation to others and with the work of the Commission, was completed with one year of work by the commission. In 2000, the Government of the Republic of Croatia made a decision, in my opinion, a wrong decision, that, through an extraordinary institution, an extraordinary legal remedy, which is the government's commission, the conduct by the right of supervision was done both extensive and large business, such as the revision and the government's decision, that government's commission caused a lot of dust, and in fact it couldn't because it was neither the purpose of the commission nor that institute to solve the problem. So we're also government at the time, and then as a general policy, we're being charged with destroying dignity, and I don't know what wasn't said at the time. What is important is that this process involved very few people with disabilities. There was therefore no talk of any systematic audit. The law passed three years ago is a second attempt to resolve the issue of the revision of Croatian military disableds systematically. The law stipulates that the whole process should be completed within three years. That deadline expires in the fall of this year, so in October. Therefore, if we have passed the law well, then more than 70% of that process should be completed, but now this law is abolished and we have brought again the unequal position of the disabled Homeland War, and so we have raised their legal uncertainty again as it says here. After this, there will be no more possibilities and no more need after 12 years after some people have obtained their status legally or unfairly, get a solution to their legal certainty to question it again, it is too late and it is actually a sad fact that after 12 years we are dealing with these issues. That question should have been settled. Because the largest number of Croatian military disabled people was created in the first two years of aggression, it has been almost 12 years since then. And we're still dealing with this problem. So this is definitely the end of the review story, and the failure of the story. The law applicable to this act is the Law which regulated this issue in a proper way, and other than general assessments of the type of injustice, the destruction of dignity does not have any analysis by the Government of the sub-species that says that it was indeed the wrong process. After these government decisions or the conduct of the administrative bodies of this State under this law, the next court proceedings should be completed and the whole procedure should then be completed. This is the way to end the process on his half. We are absolutely not going to do anything. I repeat, we have added to the unequal position of the Croatian military disabled, one in relation to the other, especially as the revision goes from the highest degrees to the lower ones. This means that we have audited those in whom the most frequent revision is undeniable, i.e. disability status is undeniable or less controversial. And that category 20, 30, 40%, actually, we probably didn't get hold of this. At least it would have been good if the government had offered solutions or a review of what has been done so far. For nearly 3 years, this process has been going on, the law has offered and foreseen a three-year deadline, and we have no record of how many audits have been carried out in the meantime. It would be good for the government to offer us these arguments so that we can look at what has been done and what makes sense in the final phase of reviewing the passing of the law on her interruption. What should be further said about this bill, it should certainly be pointed to the fact that, according to the applicant's assessment, this law is worth 105 million kuna. It would be a good idea to propose to MPs who want to know the offers and the way he came up with the trinity. 105 million kunas are thrown out of the sleeve like this, and without trying to get some numerical arguments to come up with three figures, and then, of course, it can be polymerized, so it's obviously the wrong way of dealing with this problem. And I have to say, and that 105 million kuna will have to come from somewhere. This is not the first law to come from the Ministry run by Mrs. Jadranka Kosor. And each of these laws weighs several hundred million kunas. I think that within those funds that the state has set out to provide Croatian defenders can achieve both fair treatment and, of course, achieve their dignity. I repeat my assessment from this pay phone that money cannot be won with dignity, and most often where there's a lot of money, there's not much justice. Therefore, in those frameworks that the state has set out for the solution to the status of Croatian wartime military disableds, and this is not a small amount of money that is suitable for the country's ability to achieve one another. And the dignity of Croatian defenders and the equal treatment of the state, and the trust of those defenders in the country they created. In this way, the constant changes in the law by bringing defenders into the wrongs of one another, and natural to a high level of legal uncertainty, will not strengthen or gain the trust of Croatian defenders in the country they created. And that, of course, is one of the reasons why we even change laws so often. As for the dignity of the Homeland War and the dignity of Croatian defenders, not for a single hour have all the wrong or right moves of the government in the last 12 years been threatened with the dignity of those who were indeed Croatian defenders, and those who were truly Croatian wartime disabled. Not for a moment have these people felt damaged, so the model is the government in the last 12 years not saying now which power is which one did not. It was probably all the authorities in this regard that were doing some of the failures, they didn't feel threatened, they just wanted it to happen, and I think in that sense this closing of one process as I said on the wrong version. The question becomes why is it already going on and this is a political decision here has no argument regarding the process itself why this process would be bad. In addition to these general arguments of the type that cause dissatisfaction to be introduced, there is no question of why this law is bad. It is therefore a political decision to score political points on this issue. And that must be said very clearly. It could have been two months ago when an amendment was made and the addition of the Law on the Rights of Croatian Lawyers why it did not get rid of it then. We had the opportunity to do so, the one who then proposed a law on why it was allowed for two months to be worth a law that, by the political position of the promoter, was obviously not a good law. It is a proposalional mistake and it is unfortunately a confirmation of my position that this is actually about a kind of political philosophy, that on these issues, stressing these issues is gaining political influence. I am convinced that after 12 years of having many questions in this regard it will no longer be possible. And I am sorry, therefore, that the issue of the revision of the Croatian military disabled should have been closed, the prison in this position according to the Club LIBRE's views is wrong. For all these reasons, ladies and gentlemen, the club of representatives of libre, will not support this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7610	Thank you very much, dear colleague. We have a few corrections to an incorrect quote. And Tomislav Ivić, the secretary of state, answered, but before that, I must report that it is in accordance with Article 207(2). The Rules of Procedure have expired time to apply for a 10-minute hearing. And colleagues and colleagues, I suggest that we subdue our guests to the gallery. It's a training school from Rovinj. Welcome to the Croatian Parliament. Now we're going to go to the less beautiful part of the job, and these are the corrections of the incorrect quote. The first came from counterpart Niko Rebic. Here you go, my colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7611	Well, actually, based on Mr. Radosh's exposure, I find it wrong. It is not true that the basic intensity of the proposed amendments and the addition of the Law on the Rights of Croatian Defence and members of their families is the abolition of the revision. It is true that both translation and revision that has so far been a more political hack of the moral and material rights of Croatian defenders and therefore these amendments and additions to the Law on the rights of Croatian defenders and their families will bring little peace into that population and I think it is very good that we can adopt these amendments today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7612	Thank you very much, colleague Rebic. I'm asking you nicely to be precise in correcting an incorrect quote. The next amendment was reported by counterpart Pero Kovacevic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7613	The correction refers to the following. Mr. Rados does not understand the difference between the revision in terms of deprivement of status on the basis of unworthy documentation and translation costing the state. And Mr. Radoš is just a small number translated according to the provisions that we are now erasing, and the rest means about 10%, about 1500 or 4000, and there are up to 40,000 large numbers left, which can't be done even in the time prescribed and these are new costs. 105 million kuna doesn't apply to this part, it's a small number. It relates to part of the pension, and for 97, which the state has remained in debt, which means that's the point.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7614	My colleague Kovacevic, you did not correct the incorrect assumption.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7615	I did correct an incorrect quote and listen carefully when I speak. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7616	I listened to you very carefully, and you did not correct the incorrect assumption.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7617	Then you don't understand matter.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7618	Possibly. That's why there are colleagues to explain it to us. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Radoš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7619	Well, I was just about to tell Madam Vice President that Mr. Kovacevic did not correct my incorrect claim. He talked about what I understand and what I don't understand. It would be good for Mr Kovacevic, who has in many ways created a policy of relations with Croatian defenders, to speak about his understanding, because the obvious situation after his own presentation is not good.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7620	Mr. Radosh would be wiser to say...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7621	What did you call your colleague Kovacevic about? Please stick to the Rules of Procedure. Next to correct the incorrect allegations, MP Josip Djakic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7622	Madam Vice President. Dear colleague Rados did not, he said the incorrect assumption that the real people with disabilities did not feel unsatisfactory and unsatisfactory. It is true that they felt insecure and unsatisfactory. The example of Darka Bestek, in which Mr. Former Minister Pancic called him a fake invalid, and in fact, it's not about his disability at all, it's about his suffering, it's about his second-part rights. And another incorrect allegation that says that it wasn't presented and that the audit is near its end. The exact number of audits she accepted was presented, how much she lost to her status, and you probably don't listen well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7623	It seems to me that the correction of an incorrect quote is all being used a little bit to correct an opinion. The next one came from a colleague named Maria Byte. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7624	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I will not correct the political opinions and evaluations of my colleague, Rados, who I do not agree with, but on the basis of Article 209. I will correct the Rules of Procedure's misrepresentation, that the dignity of the Homeland War defenders was not compromised. In 2000 to 2002, I spoke and analyzed the most frequently mentioned words in this period related to Croatian defenders. They were fake disableds, fakes, benefits, privileges, etc. This bill aims to restore dignity to Croatian defenders, and this is precisely the reason for the urgent procedure, and in this incorrect statement is a colleague of Radosa. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7625	Thank you very much, colleague Byte. Honorable representative Željko Krapljan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7626	Your Honor, Madam Vice President, I will correct Mr. Radosh's allegations. He argues it is on several occasions in his speech, that it is a pure political decision. I'm responsibly saying it's a moral decision. As well as a soldier and an officer and in the past term when it was passed I was absolutely against and now as a member of the ruling team I support it. Why and why, because, in reality, that commission absolutely didn't need it. If we know that everyone goes to first-degree, second-degree and gets to one year, two years and over, so we know that it was an audit so that it was a super audit we don't see and I'm saying that this was politically what it was and I think it's pure harassment of the defenders and that it's finally time to stop it and put an end to it, because after so many years it's absurd. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7627	Thank you very much, dear colleague. You also did not just correct an incorrect quote but went to further interpretations. We have another breach of the Rules of Procedure, colleague Radosh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7628	So again, colleagues Krapljan and Mrs. Byte are using the correcting of the incorrect quote to actually express their position and polymize with my position. It is therefore an infringement of Rule 214 of the Rules of Procedure. I said it was a political decision regarding what Mr. Krapjan said. Of course, that political decision also has moral dimensions in it that I did not question, I did not value them. Therefore, this is not a correction to the incorrect assumption. As for Mrs. Byte's allegations, I've hardly met many Croatian defenders who have not been threatened by the revisions so far. The real Croatian defenders and the real Croatian wartime wartime disabled.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7629	Thank you very much. Another violation of the Rules of Procedure, the esteemed representative, Maria Byte. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7630	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. A colleague, Radoš, injured Article 209. A Rules of Procedure in which he semimised with the corrections of incorrect allegations and used the violation of the Rules of Procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7631	I accept criticism even though I think it's done too often in the assembly, so I ask you to respect the Rules of Procedure. I see by nodding your head that you agree. Thank you very much. I think it would be good to have the State Secretary, Mr Tomislav Ivić, address us now. Here you go, secretary.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7632	Thank you very much. Answering Mr. Representative's question from this 105 million. This 105 million is the calculation of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute which has accurate data for each user and which can only calculate the exact amount. Secondly, you said half the work was done. But not half the work was done, but a little more than 10% of the work was done, because so far only 4000 and 400 cases have been translated, I said so in the opening statement and presented the basic statistics, so 40% of the personal disability was abolished, or excused when it comes to damage to the body, decrease in the extent of the damage or the solutions have been abolished. Likewise, when it comes to judicial judgments, the judgments have not yet arrived. The first court ruling has arrived, but to assume everyone else will be just like the one who arrived.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7633	We have one correction to an incorrect quote. Mr. Radosh, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7634	So let's be clear. I said that according to the dynamics foreseen by the law, which is three years, and it's been almost three years, it should have been done more than half, I didn't say half was done. I don't have that information. Thank you for your information, Mr. Secretary of State, but it would be good for you to write down all the information you said in your oral presentation to the MPs, or in the bill. At that time, MPs could be much more perceptive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7635	Thank you very much. I think we can move on. On behalf of the club SDPH Ivica Pancic. No need to ask me, I'm reading the application. That's what it says.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7636	Madam Vice President, dear guests, Mr. Secretary of State, ma'am. I'm sorry there's no Deputy Prime Minister. It was a good opportunity for some of her contradictory statements to be clarified about this procedure today. Unfortunately, we could have had this debate yesterday when Mrs. Vice President was here, but I accept the priorities of this government as well. Let's get back to the point. This Legislative Proposal, each Government can pass different laws, good or bad, and so can this HDZ. In all this, however, it is incorrect to use an untrue argument with an unfair accusation. In the past four years, and in these Assembly sessions, in this session, the SDP has been accused of not taking care of Croatian defenders, of criminalising the Homeland War and whatnot. On behalf of the SDP Club, I reject such accusations once again, and I repeat, because yesterday and from the Prime Minister, we could hear one doubt as to how the MPs of the Croatian Social Democrats are considering the Homeland War. So I'm saying, the Croatian state came out of this Homeland War. He's one of her foundations. The Homeland War was a defensive and liberating, just war in which, thanks to Croatian defenders and the entire Croatian people and citizens of the Republic of Croatia, Croatia is freed and today, with all problems, we are building it as a democratic and legal state. At the same time, and that might be where we're different. It cannot be escaped from the fact that every war is evil and that there are things in it that no one can be proud of. So it's everywhere, in every war, that's how it's been with us. That is why, the tasks of the last government and the SDP were to protect the fundamental values of the Homeland War, its justice and its winning character, and the elevation of the true Croatian defender, whom the virtues of courage, sacrifice, modesty, solidarity and above all, love for the country. As well as the dignity of all victims, Croatian wartime wartime disableds, and families of the dead and missing Croatian defenders, those who lost most in this war. His sons, his fathers, his brothers, his husbands, which can't be returned to anything. In order to protect true Croatian defenders, in the care system for Croatian defenders, the intention was to correct mistakes that were consciously or unconsciously, with or without a political background made in the 1990s. Because because of the known difficult economic situation in which Croatia is located, we were not and today we don't care how these funds are allocated. We find it unacceptable that these limited resources also go to those who should not go, to those who have gone in different ways, past and contrary to existing legal and moral standards. For them, I personally had no, no, and I will have no understanding. The main cause, I believe, is that many will agree, the feeling of injustice among the vast majority of Croatian defenders was the decomposition of Croatian society due to unfair and unfair privatisation. While one was killed, the other was rich. Those who were lucky to survive, returning from the front, were dry to sit at home because jobs where they worked before the war were gone. The 1997 law on the rights of Croatian defenders is an attempt to help certain categories, primarily the victims, to cope under these new circumstances. The intention was good, some solutions too, but the law began to generate bad things. It has led to decomposition among the defenders themselves, and the inability to realise it, because already in 1998 some of its obligations have been suspended, they have created additional dissatisfactions. In 2001, the new Law was adopted, more realistic and perhaps more just. True, some receivings have been somewhat reduced, but some categories, e.g., have given additional rights to unemployed Croatian defenders. As is the right to supply about a thousand and 100 kuna. Also, additional employment measures have reduced the number of unemployed Croatian defenders from 32 thousand to below 27 thousand and should continue. Because the only solution to the position of Croatian defenders in society is the development of the economy, economic growth and the creation of new jobs. And I think that's the fundamental difference between our two concepts taking care of Croatian defenders. One active and another passive. Also, this new law introduces this famous translation, which is no news in these areas, and for veterans II. World War II has been done so several translations. And it was introduced in order to protect, I repeat, the true Croatian defender, the victim and improve his position as the economic situation will be corrected. And in order to increase the standard of these people, the others who are here were supposed to be separated, I say, strayed. And when the system was set up with a lot of trouble it worked out this way with this motion of destruction and procedure stopping. But that's not unexpected, as those who have made irregularities expect to be resolved. This is an example of what would happen with a review of privatisation that the former government did not implement, and it had to implement. And that revision has no doubt, it would have been stopped in the same way as this one. But it's interesting that as an argument to stop translation, you use data that just proves that translation should continue. I'm a secretary of state, and the Deputy Prime Minister himself spoke about that information. True, the Deputy Prime Minister, after asking journalists, why is translation stopped when the results are like that, said they were not exactly like that, but that translation claimed only a few percent of the irregularities. This I hope the Secretary of State's words are true, true, and they say that out of 4000 600 solutions in 40% of cases, or in a thousand 764 status has been abolished or disability has been reduced. And of the thousands of 968 family invalids in 27% of cases, 527 of the family disability status was abolished. It's a strange argument, but that's what we learned from this government. In this whole case, however, even more scandalous is that, according to the available information, daily pressures on members of the medical committees are being resolved, with orders on how to handle certain items. It was in the former ministry, the Croatian Ministry of Defence from the Homeland War that you abolished, and you threw out an attribute of "Croatian". And I'm asking you, what would happen if the SDP accidentally suggested it, let's ask ourselves all of us here together. That couldn't have happened. No one, nor I, nor any of my associates have called doctors or officials and imposed on them how to get rid of something, and today it seems masseous. At the end of 2003, the number of people with disabilities was about 33,000. 500 more than the beginning of 2000. 3,000 people have gained status, because a new law that is so bad, which is so unfair, has brought additional rights to the PTSD sufferer. But 2500 lost their status in translation or regular procedure, with the usual administrative procedure, although again I am sorry that there is no Deputy Prime Minister and no Prime Minister who speaks of some 6 phases, the administrative procedure is the same as it was in the 1990s. and with respect to the judgment of the Court of Justice. Which shows that the aim of the conduct of the Croatian Ministry of Defence was not to reduce or increase the number of users, but to simply implement the laws and protect the real Croatian wartime disabled and members of the families of the dead. My opinion is that in this way the institutions of the rule of law are built and the rights of citizens are protected, not by political volunteerism, and this is also evidence of this legislative proposal. Which at the same time rejects the results of translation when they are negative, but translation accepts when the results are positive, i.e. More favourable for the user. I think this is a rarity in the legal practice of Croatia and beyond. The best judge will still be time, and it won't take long to show that the manipulations of Croatian defenders can't bring anything good even to those who do it, who manipulate it. Because that manipulation returns as a boomerang, testifys and the behavior of many in the context of the new Hague indictments and the departure of two Croatian generals to The Hague. I have to say that I'm uncomfortable too when I meet some members of the ruling coalition now or some of the leaderships of the Homeland War Association, and I ask, how come they're not protesting now, signing petitions, picking chestnuts and so forth? These people suddenly start to rush somewhere, with their eyes down, leaving without an explanation of that cooperative turn in their heads. Which can only be said that poor politics creates poor people and vice versa. and to finish, believing that this legal proposal does not contribute to the protection of the values of the Homeland War, and does not contribute to the true Croatian defender, the SDP Club cannot accept it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7637	Thank you very much, colleague. A large number of corrections of incorrect allegations are expected. The first one came from representative Kresimir Cosic. Here you go, my colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7638	I am correcting Mr. Pancic's incorrect claim, since he claimed that, in the past four years, there has been a defense of the integrity of the Homeland War. For any objective and independent observer who would cut off media reports, media headlines would have to conclude that the following keywords had been dominated about the Homeland War and Croatian defenders. Such as: fake disabled people, criminals, uneducated, unstructured and nothing constructive, nothing serious and good intentions towards Croatian defenders and the Homeland War in general has been happening for the past four years and this is a serious political problem for the Croatian political scene and Croatian society as a whole.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7639	My colleague, I am obliged to warn you that you have come forward to correct the incorrect allegations. We have, okay, but it seems to me all, I ask for less sensitivity on the other hand. We have one breach of the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Sime Luchin's representative, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7640	Thank you very much. ... you may warn, because the first sentence has already shown that there is no correcting the wrong quote. [[speaks off, can't be heard]] I ask you to correct the Rules of Procedure... It's still early. [[speaks off, can't be heard]] Please, at the beginning of the exhibition where it is seen that, when correcting the wrong quote, it is polymized to the concoctions, it leads some media to react. That's what it says in the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7641	Thank you very much, dear colleague. It's not supposed to work for me, it's supposed to suggest. But when you report for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, it would be good if you started exposure to an article that was injured, so there would be more silence in the assembly. We have one breach of the Rules of Procedure. A representative of the Dance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7642	Well, that's exactly what Madam Vice President, you've violated the Rules of Procedure, and that's Article 209 which speaks of an MP who wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure, the President gives his word as soon as he asks for a speech. The chairperson shall provide an explanation after the complaint has been made, and the representative shall state the article without delay. Mr. Lucin didn't do it at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7643	Thank you very much for quoting me. We can move on. Next up for the correction of the incorrect alleged representative Željko Krapljan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7644	Your Honor, Madam President, I will correct Mr. Pancic's allegations. He mentions a privatisation review. I mean, I don't understand what this has to do with the law of amendments and additions on Croatian defenders? And I'd like to ask if...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7645	A fellow representative rectification of an incorrect assumption.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7646	I'm going to correct this correctly, correct that the revision doesn't matter, so the privatisation review has nothing to do with what we're talking about today, this agenda point. Excuse me, apparently a colleague forgets what happened in Vukovar from the Borov factory, that there was no privatisation there and forgets from 91 to 97 what was going on there. Well, please don't say what's not the point of the agenda.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7647	I don't think we're going to have this request under the Rules of Procedure. Next to correct the incorrect quote Josip Djakic. Here you go, my colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7648	Madam Vice President, I will correct Mr Pancic's incorrect allegations, which said none of them acted on the medical committees, nor did it occur to them in solving the status of the disabled. It didn't work, because you set up commissions for your party likeness. and along with them bodyguards, who... the case physically stumbled upon a 100% disabled, blind, and physically injured him. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7649	Thank you very much, dear colleague. Correction of the incorrect quote Niko Rebić. Here you go, my colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7650	It is not true that this or any of the HDZ governments have done injustices to the defenders. It's true, Mr. Pancic, that you were the real ones... who did exactly you and your government, and the highlight of your government's haughtiness and you were the non-financing of defense organizations that didn't support you and your government, or your politics. So you've taken the right to judge which associations are similar so I can get the money.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7651	My colleague, this is already a debate, not a correction to an incorrect quote. In the first part, it was. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Agent Lucin, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7652	Here, I'm told 209, but I'm also calling 214. President, it would be time for you to give someone a warning. Read Article 214. He gives you the right to be discussed in this way in order to make a reminder. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7653	Thank you very much. If I start sharing warnings, it seems to me that the last 10 people reported would definitely get them. Thank you very much for your suggestions. Next to correct the incorrect allegations, MP Željko Nenadić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7654	Dear Madam Vice President, dear colleagues. I'm correcting an incorrect assumption that the law was just. We should ask those to whom the law applies, and those of us who were commanders on the front line of the battlefield and whom these people addressed during the implementation of your law, Mr. Pancic, we know very well how righteous that law was. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7655	Thank you very much. The secretary of state, Mr Tomislav Ivić, also called.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7656	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Just answer a few of the findings of the former minister, Mr Pancic. I am also deeply sorry that Mr Pancic was not present at the session of the Assembly Committee where they were representatives of all associations from the Homeland War and that he heard them think about the existing Law on Croatian Defence. The second thing I want to do here is clearly and loudly deny, no pressures or calls to the medical committees of the Ministry were or will be. He did not want political decrees to determine how many military disabled people will be in Croatia, especially those suffering from PTSD. Which seems to me to be a case in the past. PTSDs are a real Croatian problem and the number of PTSD patients in Croatia does not bounce from global averages regardless of the wars. We are all witnesses daily in the newspaper you can read about the killings of Croatian readers and instead of imagining such and similar facts and especially over the fact that the suicide in Croatian defenders is 3 to 5 times bigger than in the rest of the population we go out with these findings. And one more question. Why has translation stalled and waited so long? Why is it up to 31. 12. In 2003, a little over 10% of cases were solved. Apparently, there was a mistake and that hot chestnut was quickly left to another new government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7657	Thank you very much, Secretary of State. Comrade Pancic, are you staying at correcting an incorrect quote?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7658	Yeah, there's a few.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7659	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7660	Here, this last one that wanted to give in to the new power. No, it's not true. The medical committees that started working now were formed, and now you're changing the law and orders, and that's the second correction of the incorrect quote you give to those same doctors on the committees to handle certain cases positively. You may be new, so you don't know what's going on at the Board behind the defender's where a warrant was given to put all the negative solutions in the drawer and to return to the doctors with a warrant to assess it positively now, including the defender who attacked the clerk at the Ministry, I must say that this has never happened in the Ministry of the Croatian Defence. The minister promised him, at least it was done by the journalists, that her status would be resolved positively.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7661	Thank you very much, colleague. The proposaler's representative can always take the word, only it wouldn't be good if it were the rule behind correcting the incorrect allegations, but here you are, Secretary of State, you are right.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7662	The Vice-President promised the case would be resolved, not in what sense. So she did not say that the case would be dealt with positively but would personally affect the case as soon as possible. And responsibly, there was no intervention with the medical committees.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7663	Thank you very much. We're going with a 10-minute debate. Dear Representative Vlado Jukic, here's a colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7664	Dear Madam Vice President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. As a Croatian defender, I must admit that I am not happy to listen to the tone of these fields because I am convinced, and I believe that most colleagues and colleagues such as this topic, and the subject is status and the right of Croatian defenders is not the one around which they should be politicised. But obviously that's, that's inevitable and I say once again, no, I'm not glad to hear such a tone of debate. We are in today's debate on amendments and additions to the law on the rights of Croatian defenders, on short amendments and additions initiated by my club, Club of Croatian Party Rights, and we have presented enough arguments for such a change to happen legally. And I believe that we also have the right to say something in support of the need to make these amendments and amendments to the law, and for the reason that the Croatian Party Club is the right in the last term of the assembly to see the problems of the law passed in 2001, as we have seen these problems, we have given ourselves great effort, and we have made a proposal for a law that passed the first reading in the Croatian Parliament and which, in our opinion, has solved if not all, and at least the most of the problems we have seen in the application of the applicable law. It should be said that in 2001 it was a kind of turning point when it comes to concerns, about legal solutions to the rights of Croatian defenders, because it is also important to remind all those colleagues who, I agree with, always stress the need for consensus when it comes to Croatian defenders. In Croatia, we had this consensus when we passed the law in 1997. In fact, the law was passed unanimously. The law, which was amended in 2001, was voted by all parliamentary parties clubs and by most colleagues present today both in the position and in the opposition and their political parties. So we had this consensus. When a change of law was proposed in 2001, the only real and real argument on which there was a speech during the debate and in which it was spoken from this speaker was the difficult material situation related to finance and the need to save and reduce the detachment for Croatian defenders' rights. About that, and today we had a chance to hear another story from those same people who today, then tell us one thing, today they tell another. About the change being made just for saving, there was no speech today. But we've heard all the other arguments that talk about the need for revision, justice, criteria and the like. So I think I am obliged to warn you no matter what and then, as today, the Croatian public also had the opportunity to listen. The amendment of the law was proposed in 2001, with reasons for the need to reduce 18% of the funds because the Croatian state does not have the funds and after all we all know three budgets have passed and on each of the following budget these funds are not only reductions under the applicable law, still valid law but have increased rapidly. And that's enough argument and it can be read from, from the Internet, from the report on the spending of the state budget. Already that same year, 2 billion and 600 were spent instead of 2 and 300 as announced, so the next two and eight hundred and reportedly passed three billion and two hundred. Only that one argument, and hundreds of millions of kunas are talking about how the 2001 law was failed. In any case, it was missed, missed in the sense that we were MPs and we voted against, and also those who voted in favour, were deceived at the time of the proposal, or the one who proposed it knowingly or unconsciously gave completely false information regarding the financing of that Law. And that is, you will forgive the important, if not the most important fact when we talk about whether we can and finance certain rights. For these and many other reasons, the HSP Club proposed in the last term a new Law on the rights of Croatian defenders, and we have also argued with the fact that the applicable law is inadmissible in most of its provisions. And that it is impregnable to state arguments about a large percentage of the resolutions of the same ministry, more than 70% and many other arguments between them and seeking a pension, central service of credible interpretation of the same law. There are a number of arguments that can be determined that this law simply could not be implemented on the one hand, which led to legal and any other uncertainty for most users, and on the other hand caused a huge dissatisfaction among Croatian defenders and I, who am also a member of the Association and who I was a member of the Committee on War Veterans, can say that it was very difficult to be, whether found in the past period or today by a user, which means a Croatian military invalid or a family member who would say something good about the applicable Law on the Rights of Croatian defenders. And these are arguments that support the fact that it is necessary to amend that Law. It is of course possible to amend it by a brand-new law or by these so-called palitative measures that we have proposed and adopted and which should be supported in order to get time to make this new law. It should also be said that when we were in the elections and talked about our election programmes and the advocates of the population were voters and they voted in favour of individual political parties and programmes, among other things, for today's ruling party which promised two things at each election meeting: restoring dignity to Croatian defenders and claiming that there is a new Law on the Rights of Croatian Defences. After a few months, and it has been 100 days, today 101, so according to some unwritten rules, it is possible and critical to look back at the work of the government and it is necessary, we can argue that despite the pre-election promises it was not even there, but only now, here may be one or two sessions held by a working group that has the task to begin drawing up draft laws and this delay is not good, it is not good for Croatian defenders either, and it is not good for the ruling coalition that is slowly beginning, it is just beginning to execute its pre-election promises. The issue of restoring dignity to Croatian defenders is a very broad issue. It is not only related to the material rights of the defenders because we are reminded in 2001 when the need to amend the Law on the Rights of Croatian Lawyers was discussed among associations, with the argument that it is necessary to reduce 18% for the purpose of saving, no relevant association, the representative of the users means the defender of the family did not say that none of these defenders were willing to bear the consequences of the difficult material situation in society and they were all ready to reduce material rights to them as well as many others in favour of the financial stability of the Croatian state. But I repeat not that argument later, law enforcement proved that it was not an argument because the funds were increased every year, but it was quite something else. The issue of Croatian defenders' dignity is the issue of their status in society and the issue of their position when, apart from the law itself, it is not only the law that tries to exercise its rights. And here we have a series of problems that need to start solving urgently. The first to be resolved is the issue of administration and administration and red tape. Because I am the law in practice and this and each other leads to a series of problems that cause the dissatisfaction of Croatian defenders. So we have a series of examples that customs services are simply balling with defenders. For example, we have examples that defenders must each year, widows, for example, for widows and children, re-confirmations that they were not in enemy units. And we have a number of other examples where bureaucracy and administration in law enforcement do not respect the dignity and dignity of Croatian defenders and these examples are growing more and more as more time flows from, from, from, from, the duration of the Homeland War, Homeland War. And an example of one, one of the most important examples in the exercise of the rights of the troops that are the legal sequences, the military units and their new commanders, the more and more years since the war, the harder and worse and the more reluctant they are to write again war routes. Often in a different context than it was in the first confirmation and then red tape again, the administration with these same defenders deprives the rights and we once again have one forest and a forest of lawsuits and court proceedings. Therefore, in addition to this amendment to the law, what the Ministry can do should be done urgently to bring order into its ranks. First of all, among the employees of the Ministry who are largely the cause of the dissatisfaction of Croatian defenders, and then as far as possible throughout the administration so that Croatian defenders can, after we have brought this measure, bring their right to reality and achieve it without unnecessary red tape and harassment, which they have been too often thrown out to date. I see my time is running out. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7665	Thank you very much, colleague. Before we go to correct the incorrect allegations of two notices. The 3rd session of the Committee on Local and Regional, Regional Self-Government of the Croatian Parliament will be held today, so Wednesday 24th at 14:00, hall 133 on the first floor. And for tomorrow's session of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture at 14.15, there was a change of terms, so please pay attention, in hall 149, first floor. Corrections to incorrect allegations. The first one came from a representative called Pancic. Here you go, my colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7666	Thank you. I am correcting Mr. Jukic's incorrect allegations where he says that parliamentarians, or he, were personally deceived in the adoption of the new law because it was said that the financial resources would be reduced and they increased rapidly. Although I tried to explain this several times to Mr Jukic on the Veterans Committee, I will try to repeat it again, which is that the funds have increased exclusively because the funding of pension insurance rights has been transferred entirely from the Peace Fund to the State Budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7667	A fellow representative except for the attempt to correct it, there was an interpretation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7668	So how am I gonna fix it?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7669	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7670	Mr. Pancic violated Article 209, paragraph 2, because he did not correct it at all because it is in this bill of law that Mr. Yukish pointed out.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7671	Thank you very much. The next correction to an incorrect quote. Representative Djakic please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7672	Madam Vice President, I will correct the incorrect allegations of a distinguished colleague of the government of Jukic, claiming that the ruling set does not have the Law on the rights of Croatian defenders she boasted of. We have it and this commission that was founded will re-analyze it to present it to all clubs to bring it in line with everyone and then put it in the process. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7673	Thank you very much. A colleague of Kovacevic's injuries to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7674	The same article was broken in 209 where the law was. I haven't even seen the government. Show us.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7675	I'm not sure who's breaking the law now when you ask a question. But good. I accept your apology. We're on our way to a debate. The next one was registered by a colleague, Ruža Lelic. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7676	Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. I welcome the adoption of the draft law on amendments and additions to the law on the rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families. What's left of him is consistent with his pre-election promises. Homeland work is part of our profound past that someone would want us to forget and not forget then to crush it. And how can I forget the suffering of Vukovar, the sad column from Ilock we've been waiting for. The War Hospital in County and fear of occupation. The Croatian people and citizens of Croatia are responsible for the past and certainly the most Croatian defenders, who can hear them 141 thousand 500. About 40,000 are users of disability rights and users of the right to leave peace. While for comparison after 60 years from the end of World War II 66,000 and 520 is the user's pension from NOB. This data clearly states that adequate adequate care for those of you who deserve it most certainly will not impoverish the Croatian state and Croatian built. The law transposing all the users of the disabled rights of Croatian war invalids from the Homeland War and the beneficiary of family pension rights means all those from 100% organ damage to a group of 20% damage. These translations of gray users to residential care. So translation is subject to all those 40,000 users, and as we hear, four thousand and 400 were translated. For 1764 users, the former ministry has launched a procedure to reduce or reduce rights. We see, therefore, that the postupak would take a very long time and would be burdensome without talking about the court proceedings that would arise afterwards. This ongoing review of rights and audits leads to one legal uncertainty creating one psychological instability in this particularly sensitive population group. That's why I support the amendment and addition of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7677	Thank you very much. She's a colleague of mine. The following has applied for the debate, distinguished representative Drago Prgomet, please elect a fellow representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7678	Dear Madam President, Mr. Secretary of State, I certainly won't say anything new if I can confirm who knows how many times already mentioned here that it's really small and good that there are few topics and events in this country that deserve to be voted or evaluated by consensus. And surely the Homeland War is one of those topics because it is one of these events. And get anything or nothing less to talk about with the wrong objects and with a lot more sensitivity then it's the Homeland War. Especially the part that we all consider most valuable, which is people, or Croatian defenders. And if you took into account the voted Homeland War Declaration, then you'd really get the impression that there is a high degree of consensus about it. However, for some time in this House we are discussing laws concerning Croatian defenders, I fear that this consensus is merely declarative. When it comes to the amendments to this Act or to the parts that speak about translation, I must admit that my own personal position is that if it was already to be principled and indeed in a certain way to bring savings into the state budget. Correcting injustices or punishing abuses should indeed have been principled so that all users of the state budget would be placed under the same measure or placed under the Institute of Translation. However, this is the way it seems to be done, and thanks to this, we must recognize the illegalities that have been and have been legally established, a socialist population in this case is placed on a non - eloquent pillar of responsibility. But in a certain way, the punished stamped, so I almost dare say one group of social populations in which the state is a little bit of a stricter. Especially now, I don't know what it is about whether the financial effects' budgets were wrong when these changes were passed in relation to the law. Yes, if what the secretary of state said is true, that through the lawsuit we will have a situation not to save but that the state will lose the financial resources it was planning to save, then I really don't see any reason why it went in such a way to change the law. And I'm afraid the state has not shown responsibility to the least in that kind of financial budget. Therefore, impeccable respect for, sanctioning illegality yes, an illegal privilege yes, but no anatomy in this case by Croatian defenders. As far as the new law in preparation is concerned, I would like to appeal to the Government that instead of such advances as we had three years ago to introduce an institution system to take care of some legal parts or articles that rather vaguely talk about how to obtain the status of a Croatian defender, or a Croatian wartime wartime invalid. And I'm afraid that one part of the public just from the broad interpretation of these legal provisions acquired in a certain way a negative idea regarding this issue. On the other hand, speaking of this law that is in preparation, I would really ask the Government to take care of one of the largest in essence of the Croatian defence population, which in a certain way in the current laws and do not belong to the category of pensioners, unfortunately, the dead Croatian military disabled persons, are, however, placed in another way. And what I would say in the end, when we were all talking about this dignity somehow, I think that even for Croatian defenders one of them and that the important measures that would really aim to protect the dignity of the Croatian defender was finally brought forward by the law and not every little bit to deal with any changes regardless of what authority it is. Because I'm really going back to the beginning of my presentation really if and what it's about to have a consensus if and what it's about to have a positive attitude about then it's the Homeland War, then it's the Croatian defenders. With frequent changes to new laws, we certainly will not succeed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7679	Correction of an incorrect quote by MP Leko please go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7680	Thank you very much. The sense of justice doesn't keep me from qualified fellow Pegomet that training is a strict distinction of rights and rights from wrongs and injustices. Is there anyone who advocates that we forget and claim that there are no those who have abused the Croatian Defence Institute? Is everything okay in there? It's not.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7681	Mr. Leko, what exactly is the correction?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7682	So you cannot qualify a law that requires the distinction of justice from injustice that training is strictness. Inaccurate, unfair, unprincipled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7683	A fellow representative accepts your debate. It could otherwise be a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Next, Zeljko Kurtov checked in. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7684	Honorable vice president, respected secretary of state, colleagues and colleagues. I'm going to try to be as brief as possible and try to make some views as a defense attorney that I still see from this debate so far I'm looking a little different at this whole thing. I think the defense attorneys of the disabled who are currently in question deserve to be discussed in one way without daily policy and without politicizing. No one can give us back our dignity and pride, the Croatian defenders always have it and will always have it. It can change as much as you want the government, past, HDZ has passed, coalition current, HDZ is next, I don't know which, pride and dignity of Croatian defenders will never take away because we have it, so we have also entered the defense of this country and we have shown it from our actions. I'll look back on the case, here someone in the discussion said we'll give PTSD to the defenders. Gentlemen PTSD will not be given by the Croatian Parliament or the Croatian Government to the defenders. PTSD has earned defenders on the battlefield and for those who don't even know today's PTSD Act is not fair, and I think we're going to get rid of it very quickly, so I'm going to try my best to do it. In the past experience in America, after 20 years, PTSD gentlemen appear, not within a legal deadline of one year or a month. I would call it non-disclosure, ignorance, but not with anyone trying to take it away from Croatian defenders the right to be sick and to be treated. Well, I don't think anyone in this assembly is going to go to this absurd, and I think we're here about that part, all together to do something positive and make this law, i.e.. This translation that we're talking about today, actually protects our defenders who just don't have the nerve anymore. They don't have the strength to prove their status, prove their illness. I had no intention of getting into some controversy, but I have to tell you here. Two months ago, three months ago, there's a case. One of my ex-soldiers got sick and we chased him around and in the end now as his commanding officer came and he listened to me and we went to the hospital to get him help. Gentlemen, there I found two more of my fighters and believe me, I cried like a little child. So that's what we're discussing here, and I think there's one way in this debate in this assembly that people with disabilities from the Homeland War should be more respected. I've submitted the amendment, I'll read it here, since I want to be constructive. The subject is an amendment to the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Rights of Croatian Lawyers from the Homeland War and members of their families. Article 7(2) is amended as follows: "The payment of receipts referred to in the preceding article will begin on 1 January 2005. The provisions of paragraph 2 of Article 7 shall apply. The final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families has been prescribed that non-payments will be made by the basis of a final solution which has been granted the status and right for permanent payment within three years." With respect to the large funds that cannot be raised within one financial year, I believe that this law should nevertheless be determined first in a relatively shorter period of one year, even if it starts with payment, and thus manifests the political will to implement this law and secondly, in order to avoid the possibility of waiting until the last hour and then to charge the budget once with the total amount or in the worse version of the inability to pay in one financial year the whole thing further prolongs. So my amendment is to start paying off from 1.1.2005. That would be my contribution, and I will support this law, amending the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7685	Thank you very much, colleague. Next is counterpart Mate Arlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7686	Madam Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. I don't think there's anyone in this assembly, and I'm among them, who wouldn't recognise the right of any person to do what is necessary and can achieve under legally prescribed conditions and under the procedure of the prescribed law of any defender who gives him the Law on the rights of Croatian defenders from Homeland Work. I want to figure it out first. But for this very reason, the Law on the Rights of Croatian lawyers from the Homeland War has been passed in which rights such as the invalid rights of the Croatian wartime invalid, the right to cash compensation, the right to housing, the right to housing, the purchase of the apartment, the housing loan, the right to family pension and disability pension, the right to all unemployed, the right to determine disability and the right to professional rehabilitation have been established. And now what's going on? Who has established this right? That's awesome. Who's law enforcement? By force of the Constitution, the Government of the Republic of Croatia, i.e. the State Administration and of course the judicial authorities. The next situation is now being raised and the next serious question. I seriously think that this is an unheard form, an unremembered example of the deep incursion of the legislative authority in the executive and judicial authority that assumes or assumes upon itself a decision to regulate, legislatively enforce and prescribe the exercise of rights and establish rights beyond the Constitution. For the first time, colleagues and colleagues of this law happen in administrative proceedings, and even in cases where the whole procedure has already been completed before the judicial authorities, the solutions which are unfavourable for rightholders who have been found unfavourable by each holder are practically annulled and returned to the original solutions that were favourable. And what is stated in this action? The correct factual situation has been established, as laid down in the procedure laid down by law, under administrative procedure or administrative dispute, possibly ending in court and ultimately applying appropriate material law. What right do we, without determining all these facts that are legally prescribed to be established when determining the individual rights of the user, can, in a unilateral decision through the law, undo all the solutions, such solutions and, in fact, make, undo all the work that has been done. Finally, from the constitutional point of view, that part is not right. Secondly, it is interesting that at the same time in such procedures, where the correct and factual situation has been re-established and in the appropriate prescribed procedure and the fair application of material law, and if a more favourable solution than before the procedure was then appropriated and can remain in force, says this proposal. So, what did we take on ourselves, as a Parliament, role? The role of the judge and the court, by this law, and that is what should not happen and should not happen if translation is to be abolished, then it should actually be prescribed that the state body again performs the appropriate procedure and that those in the administrative procedure, or the judicial procedure, actually solve the issue. What's this about? It's about the fact that the rights that you've previously read, all these rights are abolished by the translation of those rights. And no one has the right to claim and to enable, or to implement, the implementation, and in fact, to suspect, on the basis of evidence, that a person may have failed to do so in accordance with the law laid down in the terms of the procedure laid down by the law. Actually, what are we doing? We also legalize those cases that are wrongly wronged, in a deceitful way, have potentially come to the realization of some right as defenders' rights, and to the harm of all the other defenders to whom this right belongs. That's the first thing I wanted, the second thing I wanted to point out. The third thing I wanted to point out is that a new deadline is being introduced in economic practice, when it comes to state and its obligation to pay, which is that if this right were recognised under Article 7(2), it is then determined that those rights will be paid up within 3 years. Dear gentlemen, it's about personal rights. Therefore, if we already want to replace both judges and courts and administrative proceedings and administrative, administrative bodies that have done their job, then we cannot say that the right to which is a personal nature, such as the right to compensation, such as the right to a family pension, such as the right to a disability pension or as the right to a pension of a Croatian wartime invalid or the question of the right to disability or the right to an eye, the right to an apartment, etc., and it belongs to it and it does so, we cannot say that it will take place within 3 years, but we must say that this will take place from the day of entry into force of this Act and its beginning, its application. Because he needs the invalid's gain. You can't tell him we'll pay him later. And in such a situation, I think it is quite clear, in fact, that it is impossible by law to enter into what belongs to him in a administrative procedure and in a judicial, possibly administrative dispute, and that these issues should have been resolved by a different amendment and supplementation of the law and imposed by the legal means, by the competent state authorities to carry out the appropriate procedure. This is how this Law is actually completely inconclusive and it will cause major problems and effects that will not contribute to the rule of law and establish a rule of law in the Republic of Croatia. And in addition, it will lead to a precedent that will show how legislative will, imposed by most of the will, can practically be significantly intruded into division, constitutional division between legislative, executive and judicial authorities, and thus will be significantly disrupted, in fact, by the functioning of the foundations of the rule of law and the rule of law. For all these reasons it is not possible, not that it is not desired, but it is not possible to support this Law because of this, this Law should actually, it would be best to convert it into first reading and that possibly through these discussions and these applications that are adopted, to eventually see how, how to prepare a new Bill Proposal, the Final Bill in which this and how could be arranged. And not in this way as it is proposed here because this way is practically shown absolutely that the Parliament takes over the role of both executive and judicial authorities, which he does not have the right to force the Constitution itself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7687	Thank you very much, colleague. One rectification of an incorrect allegation. Dear Representative Josip Djakic. Here you go, fellow representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7688	Thank you very much, Madam President. He would correct Mr. Arlovic's incorrect claim, which means that it is not true that we are legalizing all illegally acquired solutions. Already illegal, already possible illegalities in the acquisition of these rights will be removed by applying legal institutes that apply to all other citizens in the Republic of Croatia. That's right. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7689	Thank you very much. We're going to have a discussion. Next up is counterpart Bozica Šolić. Here you go, fellow MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7690	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, gentlemen of the Parliament. The law, which came into force in 2001 and in its application, saw great problems and great injustices, due to a fundamental negative approach to resolving all issues related to the exercise of the rights of defenders, as well as the families of the dead defenders. This 2001 Law was not only restrictive in all matters related to this sensitive population, but it sought in its very application in a humiliating way to make it even more difficult to apply and, in fact, in a very perfiduous way, to prevent the exercise of the law of established rights, which had been reduced anyway. That's how it went into the so-called. Translation of existing rights and 100% military disabled from Group 1 to Group 10. The audits are long, the audits have been conducted several times, and the most famous example is Mr. Beštek, but also many of the other most difficult disabled. The entire one system was involved in the injustice and humiliation of those people who gave their lives and their health to defend the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia. Not asking for the price of when, without weapons and proper equipment, they went to all the battlefields. They performed their duties in defence of the Homeland with honor, courage and loyalty, and then they were brought down by an avalanche of humiliating lunches in the style of being all false disabled, that mothers, children and widows of the dead Croatian defenders had too many privileges, too many people with disabilities, that this should also be reduced by the introduction of taxes on these amounts. These same legislators never once asked whether it was a privilege when defenders without question went to wartimes, when returning to their families in crates, or severely wounded and sick. During the application of this extremely humiliating Law, many of the defenders committed suicide because they could not handle the way they were treated, nor were they given adequate care either to them or to their families. The application of the 2001 Law took place at the same time as large layoffs in the MRLs and in the MUP, i.e. by sending them into retirement, in the largest number of cases, particularly those who were defenders. All of this made their situation even more difficult because their pensions, charges humiliatingly low, and the status of a Croatian wartime wartime invalid could not be realised, since the whole process was so complicated that it was almost impossible to collect legal documents. And if the Medical Committee were to give a positive assessment then the mechanisms of Pancic's ministry would take place to find a way to prevent the rights of defenders from being exercised. For example, protocol of medical findings from the years 91, 92 and so on was required. Then evidence was sought, war routes, war logs, victims' circumstances, and various confirmations of the abolished military units. And the military mails were in constant reconstruction so that the documentation could not be obtained, and without it there is no resolution of the status of a Croatian military invalid. Therefore, the entire one system was involved in preventing the exercise of the rights of defenders that were significantly reduced by law itself. Audits of the existing Croatian military disabled are a story for themselves. Because they've been through the most humiliating. Because they persistently tried to prove that they were disabled, that they had received something that did not belong to them, that they were a great burden on the state budget. The supply Mr Pancic mentioned today was introduced as the Institute for the Protection of the Worst Cases of Unemployed Defendants, which is the same story for himself. Because it's like, at the same time, the defense attorney can't take social aid. Because in that case, he doesn't have the right to supply. These are just some examples of the fact that the status of Croatian defenders and victims of the Homeland War was extremely humiliating and difficult. This must make sure that the status issues of defenders and dead defenders and their families are achieved in a more simple way when adopting new legal solutions. This amendment to the law, which is before us today, confirms and proves that the government and the defence ministry have set out decisively to resolve the injustices committed over the past years to disabled people, defenders and their families. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7691	Thank you very much, dear colleague. For the breach of the Rules of Procedure, MP Lucin, you have a fellow representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7692	Thank you very much. It's an incorrect assumption that it's the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7693	I'm sorry, you're the one who lifted the plate on the Rules of Procedure's injuries.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7694	I'm sorry, I didn't see the side.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7695	Then you have to wait your turn. All right. A colleague of Antun Peru, a correction of an incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7696	Dear colleagues, a respected colleague in her debate literally said, disabling, it was the intensity of the previous law, preventing the exercise of the law guaranteed by Croatian defenders' rights. That's incorrect. The previous law actually sought to enable the honorable Croatian defenders to exercise their rights to the law established, while at the same time separating the fake disabled and wartime profiteers from the honorable Croatian defenders. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7697	Thank you very much. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, colleague Šolić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7698	Infringement of Rule 209 of the Rules of Procedure, a respected colleague of yours has said nothing but your opinion, and you have not corrected my claim.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7699	Thank you very much, dear colleague. Next up for correcting the inaccuracy of fellow Pancic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7700	Here I am, unlike my HDZ colleagues, really going to correct the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7701	This was already a court-of-law colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7702	Well, fellow vice president, you as our former coalition partner seem to have something against SDP officials. I wish you were...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7703	You're breaking the Rules of Procedure, I'm warning everyone who breaks it, and so are you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7704	A colleague of mine said that defenders who want to receive and supplies should not receive social assistance. Which is incorrect. Social assistance is about 400 kuna, in which case it is paid the difference to these thousands and 100 kuna. And secondly, that this law, the new law in 2001, was passed, that the ultimate and humiliating law. I remind those who have not read it, to say that it is based on this law, which Mr Kovacevic wrote, means it is a 97th law and a law on the protection of military and civilian victims of the 92nd war. It is based on these two laws, and there is almost nothing new written in the new law, which is not contained in these two.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7705	Thank you very much. A colleague named Šolić reported on the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7706	Mr. Pancic hurt Article 209 again. Mr. Pancic, you haven't corrected any of my incorrect allegations, and I'll tell you again about the supplies. 1,100 kunas receive the most difficult cases in care, while you have introduced the Institute for the Elimination of Social Assistance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7707	I think we'll have to agree to learn all the Rules of Procedure. Correction of an incorrect quote, colleague Lucin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7708	Thank you very much. It is therefore incorrect to say that the 2001 law is humiliating for Croatian defenders. It is also incorrect that the former government has done everything to humiliate Croatian wartime wartime disabled and Croatian defenders. I'll just remind you, HDZ was the first to talk in Croatia about fake disabled people, and I'd remind you of associations that until 2000, and after that, they said there were fake people in their ranks and according to the former HDZ government, and according to the former coalition government, they asked for a revision.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7709	Thank you very much. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Šolić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7710	Article 209 was re-injured. Mr. Lucin, you keep your opinions here, and you don't absolutely correct any of my incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7711	It would be good to give an article an item, because otherwise we will have style exercises. Thank you very much. I suggest we move on. Dear Representative Zivko Nenadić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7712	... I welcome everyone once again, and I am really glad that finally this famous law on the translation of Croatian defenders has been found on the agenda of this House. [[speaks later turned on, can't be heard]] And I would call this law of translation more correctly the law of bringing in Croatian defenders, and I would say bringing them to the temple pillar. And I wonder, where was the defense legal certainty, and also where was the safety of the victim's pride for the homeland? and what are the results of this famous translation of Croatian defenders, led by the former Croatian Defence Minister, and I dare say, the anti-minister of Croatian defenders. If I followed the secretary of state well, in the opening statement, around 40% of the disability was reduced or abolished, 27% of the family pensions were abolished, 51% of the family disability was reduced or abolished from 10% of the approximately processed cases. If I'm making a mistake again, I didn't remember everything well. So it's somewhere around 2.5 thousand Croatian defenders or their families. And after that we see, the verdicts have begun to arrive, the Administrative Court has abolished one solution, and of course it is expected to continue. And what was the goal of the former government? I would say that the obvious goal was to justify the asset, actually I wanted to say the known one, that the goal justifies the asset, so the price is not important, they were willing to pay a higher price, because the task did not actually have a price. Of course, I support this amendment to the law, as everyone here has said, individual cases, of course let them correct, check, it always lasts. Because general defenders must not be victims of politics, and especially must not be victims of ideology, nor past ideology. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7713	Thank you very much, dear colleague. I would just like to warn you that perhaps the term of the anti-minister of Croatian defenders is a little difficult for such discussions to bring political courts in order, but I am asking you nicely to take care of the integrity of fellow MPs. We have two corrections to incorrect allegations. The first one's a colleague of Pancic's.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7714	Well, it doesn't matter, I also learned about this anti-minister of Croatian defenders, but let me just say that I was Minister of the Ministry of Croatian Defence from the Homeland War and that I am honest and honest with you. At the same time, I was a member of the Co-operation Council with The Hague. And these four years, the four years neither Croatian defender nor general ended up in The Hague. And you as the HDZ parliamentary representative, how many Croatian generals have ended up in front of the international court in these three months. Why hasn't your protest been heard in three months?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7715	My fellow representative, you have misused a plate and it is very difficult, I give you a warning, I give you a warning from my fellow counsel. You have a warning. Infringement of Rules of Procedure Maria Byte.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7716	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, I appeal to article 209 of my colleague Pancic has injured the Rules of Procedure and in that sense you have responded by giving a warning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7717	The next correction to my colleague Lucin's incorrect quote, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7718	Thank you very much. I'm correcting the allegations of fellow MPs that, that the defenders were the victim of the ideology of the former government, because the former government was not any ideological government. After all, protests by Croatian defenders did not begin in the fight for their rights with the coming of the former government to power, but the first great, perhaps one of the greatest defense groups happened during the HDZ government here on Mark's square, I think it was 97. So, come on, history doesn't begin either in 2000 or 90, and when it comes to Croatia and in this second case, when it comes to Croatian defenders, remember a little bit.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7719	Thank you very much. A broad correction of an incorrect quote. I suggest we get started on the debate. Next up is colleague Davorko Vidovic, please welcome colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7720	Dear Madam Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. In a few, however, I'm going to change what I was about to say to you right now with the last debates we've heard here. Here it is said, and this leads to a thorough and doubtful fundamental reason why these amendments to the law are being passed. That ideology should not be in play when it comes to defenders that I could certainly agree with. But what I can't agree with is that it's in the name of removing ideology from these amendments to the law and the way that some of the colleagues here interpret and defend actually introduces ideology on a large door to a single question that should be ideological or above ideological. If we have a law in which there is not a single number in reason other than 105 million kuna in 3 years, if we do not say a word of how many people have been translated, how many are left, and if, as the only reason remains, what we hear here is to prevent this law from being demeaning and offensive as the experience is said, the humiliating procedures of continuous reviewing acquired rights are and the users are then on.../ The speaker went off and turned it back on.... it's not a good way. What is unfortunately suggested by this law? He wants to suggest that there were some who were defending rights, who humiliated the defenders, who were working against the interests of Croatian defenders and that there are others who correct these injustices and those humiliations. Noding your head to confirm that this is the intention and intention of this law. If so, we are on a very bad path when it comes to protecting the integrity of these same defenders in whose name is spoken and protected by the rights of these people. As a Croatian defender, I unfortunately had opportunities even in the time of the Homeland War to listen that for example my brigade, 120 brigades of red measures and attempts to share ideologically Croatian defenders. And that story and those attempts at division keep going on and on. Do you think gentlemen that England would be a victory force if English soldiers were divided into laborists and conservatives, liters? Do you really think we used to share ourselves as ideological defenders at the time? And to whom it is finally regretted in Croatia that for the first time in the time of the Homeland War, unideologically we were all together on the same side. 92% of Croatian citizens have declared Croatia independence and this independence has been defended and this independence has been defended by gentlemen... [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7721	I beg you to, I beg you to stick to the subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7722	Yeah, I'm pretty much sticking to the subject, gentlemen. I am very much sticking to the subject because Croatian defenders......... I don't read any lessons. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7723	Wait a minute.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7724	Gentlemen dear.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7725	I beg you, I beg peace in the courtroom. In the classroom. Please, colleagues, fellow MPs, I beg for peace in the assembly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7726	I beg you, if we will, I would ask that we continue, this would be bad, this is another confirmation of what I'm talking about, it's bad for God's people, about Croatian defenders talking like this. It's not polite simply because of the sacrifice and the seriousness of what people did was cheaply politicize the Homeland War. That can't be done. That's why I deny anyone, now I speak as a member of the former government, any way that the government and its intentions to protect dignity. But I don't deny that the dignity of Croatian defenders has been violated, unfortunately it is, you know what? Unemployment, bureaucratic passion, but they were as humiliated as any other citizen in this country who unfortunately went through it together with them. And instead of being consensually looking for a way to protect us, we allow ourselves to use alibi laws and gesture laws such as this one we don't solve the problem Why we don't have a law on Croatian defenders if we announce it, if we think we can improve the position of that group, that category of people. That's the central question to be answered. I won't be against this law, I won't be against it if they think that this law really improves the position of Croatian defenders. But I am deeply convinced that he is legally inconsistencies, inconsistencies, and that, in addition to the gesture and message that is a mere political phrase, defenders do not receive anything from this, and even less, that they are consciously deprived of the existing law as a system of translation. And that is why colleagues and colleagues will not correct these mistakes that have been made towards Croatian defenders in the exercise of their rights. It's the real truth about the intentions and reach of a law like this.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7727	I thank the honourable representative. We have several injuries to the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Glavas picked up first.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7728	Mr. Chairman, I'm not going to make any remarks to the counsel but to you. You are obliged to warn a representative who says that he cannot address MPs on the opposite side and read lessons to a political party. And you are not responding at all until the MP holds the Rules of Procedure but reads lessons to a political party in this assembly.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7729	Thank you. I warned the honourable representative to stick to the subject. I don't think I hurt the Rules of Procedure. Next, Mr. Lucin came forward for a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7730	Thank you very much. Article 100, pardon 214 has been injured. The Rules of Procedure, the last three items saying that those who disturb, insult, defamation of the president, MPs during the debate need to be told. All the time, we've been here all morning listening to insults, listening to insults to my personal account and to the account of the former government and this party about blasphemy and so on by Croatian defenders. Everyone's on the other side when they're talking about it over here. We now had one case not close to what we had all and all morning on the left and now in such a way, in a rough, unparliamentary, non-democratic, non-civilization, uncultural way.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7731	Thank you, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7732	I mean, the Rules of Procedure exist to introduce work in the assembly.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7733	Thank you. Next up for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Pancic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7734	Well, here's Mr. Chairman, I also believe that you have violated the Rules of Procedure, Article 214 if you've shared a warning to an SDP representative. I didn't hear, and I wish I was denied, that you would deny me. I didn't hear you share a note and a member of the HDZ Club. It is said here that it is unacceptable for HDZ members to listen to lessons that come to them from the SDP, and we for two, two hours at least listened neatly to insults, disrespects by HDZ and no one.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7735	Thank you. Thank you. Mr. Pancic, I didn't give the notice to a respected representative who had the exposure, so for the sake of tolerance in this assembly, I didn't even give a warning to Mr. Glavas. So it's not true that I gave your parliamentary representative a warning. Next for the violation of the Rules of Procedure, the honourable representative of the Raven.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7736	Mr. Chairman, for the sake of tolerance, I ask you to respect article 207 literally and with dignity, paragraph 1, because we cannot continue working this way. I know a lot of passion has been brought into this debate. The truth sometimes offends or offends the most, so I ask you to allow us to debate quality and make decisions that will benefit all defenders. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7737	Thank you. I don't think I hurt Article 207. I warned my esteemed representative, Glavas, but he didn't answer, he didn't get Had a few incursions. [[Intruder: So he didn't get,]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7738	So he didn't get the word, Mr. Chairman, you should be running this House exactly the way you do and, as appropriate to that place where you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7739	Thank you. With the injuries of the Rules of Procedure, still respected representative Maria Byte.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7740	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. You have injured the Rules of Procedure and you, as well as your colleague Vidovic. Article 214 is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure are injured because in his speech he did not keep the topic he was discussing. There were no inappropriate behaviours before that, but the fact being brought forward, and a colleague, Vidovic, expressed insults and disrespect at the expense of the majority in this Croatian Parliament and at the expense of representatives of the Croatian Democratic Union. That's why it's a violation of the Rules of Procedure that you were supposed to react to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7741	Once again, I say that because of my tolerance in this assembly, I have not given notice to my colleague Vidovic or to my esteemed representative, Glavas. From now on, I share warnings. What do we do? For the correction of an incorrect quote, the esteemed representative of Bitunac.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7742	Mr. President, Mr. Vidovic said in his presentation: it is being conducted, ideology is also a question which is being introduced by the archeological predicator of these, this law, amendments and additions to the law, but it has just introduced ideology and divided as if it were still on 3 January 2000.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7743	Well, I don't know if it's a correction to an incorrect assumption. The following has appeared to correct the incorrect allegations by a respected representative, Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7744	Mr. Vice President, I will correct one in a series of incorrect allegations by Mr. Vidovic, which is that it is incorrect that this law is an alibi law because his, on the board, was supported by all the associations that were present. You are satisfied with these amendments and amendments to the laws as they were satisfied with the budgets that this government has brought. So you don't have to talk about the alibi law and incorrectly state that it's an alibi law. We have a foothold in the one we support. Thank you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7745	Thank you. With this, we've exhausted all violations of the Rules of Procedure and corrections of an incorrect allegation. The following came to light for the debate, honourable representative Petar Mlinaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7746	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. We heard from the secretary of state the bill and we heard that 4000 and 411 articles of the Homeland War were processed during the ordered period. We're already at 40 percent, the body damage rate is reduced or eliminated. It should be noted that of the number of cases where the status has been abolished by 540 in 85 cases, such a decision has been made on the basis of a new medical committee finding. After 12 years, a medical commission was established and 12 years ago, where defenders, disabled people were wounded, some were mentally stressed, and some returned from the camp after 9 months where they lost 1/3 of their body weight. And now, after all this time, we need a new medical, new medical committee. That it is on a number of people, and I think it is everywhere, there are weeds in every grain, so some defender may be smuggled, but there are families and dead Croatian defenders and families who are imprisoned and missing Croatian defenders. So the doctors didn't do well in 1992, and Mr. Cain today asked to equalize all rights of the defense attorney, the disabled. I would first suggest that a review of the Partisan pensions of invalidity which no one has so far asked for today, and in addition, the youngest Partisan could be 80 years old today and you know how many are still receiving pensions. So it pains me, when families of the dead Croatian defenders and those who seek their own today. I was recently in the Tordins where parents were awake waiting for every single lump of land they bathed in to see something. It was raining no one moved, the umbrellas didn't need it. And now after so many years of such parents we put them on. Not because of their material resources, but because of these parents and these families, they are hurt by honor and dignity. Then, I'm not surprised that Mr. Pancic's exhibit that he was a Zagreb student instead of Belgrade's then understood his story of the Homeland War, or if he had stayed until the end with us Vukovars then he'd know what a camp is, he'd know and even the cost of life that we risked with our people until the end, then he'd appreciate it. And the law wouldn't come to that. Then by reviewing the damage to the organism and other facts on the basis of which HRV status was established in the period from 97 to 2001 on 4 000 949 cases processed. There were only 199 or 4% of them in total. Then the Committee for Labour under the Law of Control of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which is known for the abolition of the status of disabled General Glavas, General Tolj, General Marinovic, Darka Bestek and many others. From the above mentioned items, only 10 remain unsolved. Before this debate, I received a message to tell Mr. Pancic that several werewolves' defenders had not welcomed them and acquired the rights to leave this world unfortunately. Well, here I would end up with this discussion of mine, and I think this law is good and should be accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7747	Thank you. For the correction of an incorrect quote, the esteemed representative of Lucin. I'm begging you. I was watching, and you called late. Dear Representative Lucin, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7748	Thank you very much. Oh, I'd like to point out again for the record for history. The former government did not invent an audit and spoke first of the need to correct the injustices that were done when establishing the Croatian military disabled. Remember, in 96, a representative at the Croatian Parliament HDZ Marinko Liović, president of HVIDRE, publicly says, 30% of Croatian military disabled people are fake military people. No one from HDZ or HVIDRE dementes it. So why are you putting everything on the last government? The story started with Crvenkovski's commission.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7749	I'd like to thank the esteemed representative Lucino. Correction of the indemnity quote by counsel Letica.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7750	I'm correcting a misstatement about the age of partisans. There it is claimed that the youngest 80-year-old my mother-in-law is 78-year-old has a lot of partisans that are courageously oriented and belong to the HDZ and are younger than 80 years old.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7751	Thank you. So we have the youngest partisan in 78 years. For the violation of the Rules of Procedure, the esteemed representative Pancic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7752	Mr. President, you've hurt the Vice President. You've hurt the Rules of Procedure. Because you didn't let me correct the incorrect assumption.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7753	Your Honor, I am asking you to specify which member if this is about your correcting the incorrect allegations I did not harm the Rules of Procedure because you were too late with the plate. I'm asking you to tell me the article I hurt. No, I didn't. I'm asking you to sit down, you don't have the right words.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7754	No, Mr. Vice President, I'm asking, I'm not asking much, I'm asking.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7755	Mr. Representative, I beg you to sit down, no word received. Next up for debate, distinguished representative Marin Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7756	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, Madam Chief of Staff and colleagues. I am, in some ways, unhappy with the atmosphere and the subject that is being talked to here. A rhetoric used by a categorized machine if you will. I was a representative of the 3rd Assembly, and I was a member of the War Veterans Committee when I was led by the late General Bobetko from 95 to 2000, it seems to me that we never had a bad conversation in an atmosphere like this. I mean, I really don't see the reasons for this kind of aversion, the politicization of one topic that didn't deserve it, and I'd like to appeal to the leaders that even though we MPs in our own way of exposing and treating each other, we defend the integrity of the subject. If nothing else. I know that we are different political options, political parties that this is a parliament that everyone wants to say something, but let's not let us fall below what we've had so far. I would like to remind you that we have brought the declaration of the Homeland War unanimously, that there was therefore absolute consensus between us and that there is no reason for one dear to dig political eyes now. I don't know why. I can indeed say that I was unhappy already last night when I saw the Forum and heard the Deputy Prime Minister's assistant, therefore, adviser to the Croatian Military Disabilities, which were spoken of today, Mr. Darko Bestek, who said I quote. "Racan's Government wanted to show that Croatia was created in crime" So my people, regardless of political options, regardless of personal injuries, I don't know what it seems to me that a kind of crime is in such a way to introduce such rhetoric into Croatian political simple hatred. And the charge of perhaps the greatest crime of high treason, last night we listened and that it was yours and our government that they were traitorous. That's what we heard. That's where we were identified by one of the participants. But what was said by the person who is an adviser at the ministry, so that Racan's government wanted to show that Croatia was created in crime is unacceptable. I think it's a terrible statement. And if we can't agree on that, it's a terrible statement, then we can hardly pretend to represent anyone here, let alone the Croatian people and the Croatian built. Because I don't think that's where Racan's government is being defended, but that's what politics, political behavior and the dignity of those who chose that government and the parties that made it. So the will of most Croatian citizens. Well, no one chose traitors, I suppose, Croatian people to lead the Croatian state. It all started over this topic, so I said that when Mr. Prime Minister was there, and when he politicized in that way accusing the SDP of introducing the laws what HDZ introduced, but what is normal in most countries as far as we know, which is that defenders of any kind, veterans, etc. while they're in jail for some of their rights to rest. Then it turned out that it was SDP and that it was a terrible thing, impossible, and it turned out that it was done during HDZ, 97th and I know it doesn't matter. I mean, you really need to be careful on this subject. It really takes that poetic not to turn out to be killed by a word too word, an uncontrollable word, or by Antun Branko Simic what it is, perhaps even stronger: "Man, watch out for you to walk under the stars." I think we'll be aware of our size, so let's not think we're big just when we're digging each other's eyes, when we attack him, when for no reason we belong to any political option, we abuse the place, even this seat of a parliamentary representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7757	Your Honor, I beg you, you have come a little further away from the subject of the Amendment Law and the Supplements to the Law on the Rights of Croatian Defence.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7758	Well, I did, I did. I did, even though I've just entered into her core by me, you see, it's poetic freedom. Otherwise well, the reason I came forward was to appeal, because we're talking about defenders, that the status of defenders get sailors on the ships of Jadrolinia who died during the war, and those ships were those ships with which only those ships could be delivered at that time from the aid of weapons, etc. That's what everyone knows who lives by the sea, but you know what's been going on too. In Split on 15.11.1991, the ferry "Vladimir Nazor" died during the bombing, i.e. when the ships of the then Yugoslav Navy were leaving Split, they attacked Split and then two sailors were killed on the ferry "Vladimir Nazor". It is Kalapić Jure and Mara Zdinko who unfortunately did not achieve the status of defender and from everything that stems from that status, now yes, I told the minister that I would provide her with all the documentation about it. The more cases we have that in other parts of Croatia where the seamen on the vessels of Jadrolinia have also died, the more they have succeeded in achieving those rights. I really won't talk much anymore, but since it's here, I mean this when it's mentioned, not mentioned, it's been said a thousand times. Indeed, Marinko Liovic, who was in the County House at the time, the HDZ representative, said that, 30% and that unfortunate figure burdened the percentage thrown out of his sleeve like this and burdened the whole later future situation with this. That was irresponsible, and much of it affected everything that happened later. That's what you all know, he's not even a member of the HDZ today, so on the other hand, it's not about that, it's about that, but that's when it all started. But since they were mentioned here and anti-fascists in one way or another, I really think a few speakers said that, so if someone is and is right, Letica. Here's my mother going to the 14-year-old Partisans, she's still alive, she's 76, so she's under 78 and 80, and she's 76. But if you lived in Split, which then gave the Kingdom of Italy the politics, so you separated from the motherland of Croatia and someone struggled to join the queen of the country in Croatia, so it is logical that along with all possible audits, etc. It doesn't matter, under the same conditions... that he has those rights as other defenders or fighters for Croatia, I mean disabled people etc. That's where it came from. I don't think anyone's asking that question and that they shouldn't, since it was said that I need to say that, too. Actually, it's not, the bottom line of what I was about to say is that we return the dignity of the subject by acting ourselves with dignity on this. And because we've gone too far, my people in each other's attacks, it seems to me to be using one topic to deal with each other what's inadmissible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7759	Correction of the incorrect allegations, respected representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7760	Mr. President, I will correct Mr. Honorable Representative Jurjevic's incorrect allegations, and it is incorrect that the excuse for Darko Bestek is a difficult statement against the former government. No, that's not true. His words are a true event in Gospić, Split, Bjelovar, Virovitica. Spectacular inclusions, intimidations and demonstrations of Croatian defenders to criminals, that's true. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7761	Correction of the incorrect allegation of the respected representative Ivana Sučec-Tracostanec.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7762	accept the incorrect assumption that Mr. Prime Minister spoke of the Croatian government's policy towards defenders in this honorable House politicised. The President of the Croatian Government therefore expressed the official views of the policy towards defenders who were also accepted in this population in the Croatian people, and it cannot be characterized at all by any politicalisation but also by the policy implemented through these laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7763	Dear Representative Tomislav Culjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7764	Dear President, colleagues and colleagues. Since there has already been a lot of debate on this subject, but as a Croatian defender and volunteer of the Homeland War, I cannot say my opinion. My opinion is that it is obvious that the Law on Croatian defenders from today's point of view was against the defenders today. He caused complete uncertainty and dissatisfaction by the defenders. Since then, all defenders and Croatian military disableds have had to prove their status, the circumstances of the wound. In fact, the Translation Law that caused so much controversy may have called the Law on harassing the defenders. Unfortunately, this law also led to a number of suicides from our disabled people who were dissatisfied with the ongoing call for individual commissions and to prove their status and circumstances of injury. To whom should these honorable men actually prove themselves, and why are they all even? The word here is that there were also announcements by HDZ that there were fake people with disabilities. Of course, there are those everywhere who have not properly gained status, but then it could be investigated and audit could be made of those who were controversial, not the revision of all the people with disabilities of the Homeland War and all the defenders. In fact, my opinion was that it was wanted from the then minister and former government to show up and even up all the defenders. What was meant to be said is that all defenders are in a certain way suspicious and that their status is actually questionable. They obviously didn't see the difference between the real ones and the real defenders. I see it, I believe most of the defenders in our country see it, and I believe most of the Croatian public and Croatian citizens see it. Therefore, here in the end, I support these amendments to this Act and the consensus on the Defence Committee and the support of all associations, the defense associations of that amendment, in fact, shows that the one, that the law actually has to change and it is my desire to soon actually change the entire Law on Croatian defenders who will be more just and actually at the hands of Croatian defenders who deserve it in the Homeland War. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7765	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Ivica Pančić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7766	Mr. President, I'm pleased you're here. I believe you'll be more successful in holding a session than your predecessors did. And I'm saying this as a Croatian defender, who was in Vukovar until the last day, was not in the camp, but was from Vukovar with fellow fighters, left the fair on November 17th and never cheered for the football club Partizan, nor was he the president of Partizana, but always cheered for the Dinamo football club. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] So here it is said that this law unlike some...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7767	All right, buddy Pancic. I beg you, colleague Pancic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7768	... harassing the defenders...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7769	What are you correcting? This wasn't a correction to an incorrect quote because no one mentioned it, your foreword whose quote you're correcting, about any football or any club you haven't talked about, or about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7770	So there wouldn't be any misunderstandings because there was a speech. That's why I'm expressing my satisfaction, Mr. President...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7771	Okay, thank you very much. Thank you very much. You weren't correcting the quote. You were talking about something else. Your Honor, please, what is it? I don't see it in a tile, what? Here you go. [[Employment: Injury of the Rules of Procedure.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7772	Paragraph 5, which says, "The representative is told a warning if he demeans or insults the president or other representatives, normally, in the Croatian Parliament." [[You can't hear a conversation from a microphone.]] As the gentleman runs the sessions, it will certainly suit someone, if they are responsible to anyone, and please, don't... to belittle Mr. Darko Milinovic who did not make a mistake because you were seeking to correct the incorrect allegations at the time when the debate was over. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] And you think the party can continue to rule this Parliament. Now give me a warning.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7773	Dear Representative Tomislav Culjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7774	Well, it's the same, actually. The Rules of Procedure, in that sense, that Mr Pancic, was not correcting me but was actually correcting the former speaker. So, in that sense, he can't fix it because I didn't mention Vukovar or anything like that.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7775	Yeah. You can't, you know you can't... Let's move on to the debate. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Honorable representative Anto Djapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7776	Mr. President, Secretary of State, Madam Commissioner, colleagues and colleagues. It is obvious that the debate on Croatian defenders can never be reduced only to that part of the amendments to the Law which is on the agenda because it is a problem that is not properly solved in Croatia and it is logical and understandable that with more or less, even passion or political evaluations, even qualification talks about this problem that otherwise deserves full attention and all kinds of Croatian public, and above all the responsible relationship between us parliamentary representatives that we are discussing. As a party, we have already expressed our views in the speeches of my party colleagues, however, it is necessary once again to stress that these amendments to the Law on the Rights of Croatian Defences and their families are only being partially resolved, as is said, in part a problem which is only one of a series of problems, as said in the name of the club and the representative Kovacevic, a drop in the sea of what are the problems of Croatian defenders. We were here more than we were now witnesses and through that first amendment of the Law within the 100th day, and this second amendment of the Law and the debate on this amendment, how necessary and necessary it is to go as soon as possible with the complete Law on the Rights of Croatian Lawyers. However, everyone can understand that in 100 days it may not have been possible to make but also the Law, although there was a speech that was almost prepared, but it was certain that a report could have been made on the implementation of the Law on the Rights of Croatian defenders, a hardworking Law, so that we might not be speaking and giving some flat-rate assessments of its quality, non-quality, but to make a report on the basis of which it could then be more and more relevantly debated. Because whenever you give a change to the law, even with minimal changes, nomotechnically, they open up an entire aspect of the problem that comes before us here. What has prompted me to discuss in this 5-minute debate is the fact that several times here and also in the text of the reasoning of the Law and in the debates, it also discusses the humiliation of Croatian defenders, the dignity of Croatian defenders. Then I felt I needed to say a few words about it myself. I believe that Croatian society will have a hard time having a lot of chances until it is resolved as a condicio son of qua non two major problems of Croatian society. This is, one illustration of war profiting in Croatia, where the colleague Krapljan is certainly also a privatisation of war profiting. And of course, secondly, until it really consensually resolves the position of Croatian defenders. When I speak the position of Croatian defenders, of course we never think about their material status. I think they themselves, as defenders, don't think that it's always the material status that would always be dominant in the parliamentary debates and the adoption of amendments or the addition of the law or the complete reform of the defence rights system and their position. Because with the material, material rights that arise, which certainly are never benefits but really one minimum debt which the Homeland, the state, returns to those who are... The Croatian state, there is another problem that has been mentioned here, is also the dignity of the Croatian defender. [[You don't understand.]] It is seen, of course, and the fact that the employment of Croatian defenders is difficult. It also makes it difficult for the bureaucratic apparatus to treat them. It is also seen in relation to the part of the media campaign that has been headed towards Croatian defenders for years, from the beginning of the Homeland War to today. And, of course, that applies primarily to the attitude of Croatian politics and to the Homeland War. I don't want to maybe, I regret actually opening the topic, but it's not, it's not the topic of Croatia's relationship with, in a state of The Hague court, but we have the fact that in the Croatian Parliament, you know, when we talk about the rights of Croatian defenders, it says that this same Croatian defender is performing ethnic cleansing in Croatia. That the same Croatian defender was an aggressor of Croatia to Bosnia and Herzegovina. So, if such tones are heard in this House, and this is why documents, declarations and laws that we have adopted in the Croatian Parliament, it is logical that, when we talk about one legal issue, it is therefore a matter of material law, therefore, this right translation, that, of course, such topics must also be talked about, which more clearly warns the fact that the position of the Croatian defender is, above all, threatened and his dignity because of the situation, the fact that the Homeland War is towards the points of some circles, and even in the Croatian Parliament, that no one is offended, if I am offended at all, but the chairman will intervene if he considers it necessary, bring into question the character and content of the Homeland War. Therefore, it is necessary to pass the Law on the Rights of Croatian Defendants complete, a new one, in which we would also have a chapter that would also talk about the Homeland War. We have a declaration that obviously does not have the power that the law can have, and it must be legal provisions that must, in the opinion of the Croatian Party,... personally enter a zero tolerance rate when it comes to the Homeland War and its character. Otherwise we will have a situation like we have today that has become quite normal in Croatia... at the Homeland War, on Croatian defenders, and thus is the most offensive and their dignity. And when they are treated as possible war criminals even the late President of the Republic that he was the organizer of one crime that we all know has not happened, but that it was due to the legitimate right of the Croatian Army to free its Croatian state, then we should not be surprised that the material position of the Croatian defender is more difficult, because then a general campaign is being created, that I am not talking about some more difficult terms that are said to be the burden of Croatian society, that they cost Croatia, that they have false persons, that there is this, that there is one, and these are the things that certain incidents in the individual population really abuses that occur are trying to be treated as a general rule. And we all know in this assembly, I at least hope, I believe so, that none of us hold that true. And that story about a colleague here talking about some ideological alignment with some previous movements in Croatia history, I don't think they make sense. Homeland war is specific, it is our greatest value, and it does not have to be called to any previous movements, but they are the source of Croatian society, the Croatian state that has no precedent in Croatia history and that represents for itself the value that we must all keep together. That is why, at the last session, when we had that first amendment, the intervention in the Law on the Rights of Croatian Defence, we gave a proposal for a conclusion that the government accepted and, later, as it did, it translated it into its own, I think a regulation that formed a committee to help Croatian convicts before The Hague tribunal. And we will also use this opportunity until there is a full parliamentary debate, suggest a proposal for conclusions in order to witness and promote the truth about the Homeland War, so later on, I will see that I am running out of time, in the name of the Club, five minutes and tell about the character of these conclusions. All in all, we as a party will support these amendments to the law, with a note as already said on behalf of the Club, we think it's been 100 days. We will see if the law will not come quickly, the Croatian Party will release the rights into the procedure, it is the second reading of the law that passed the first reading in the previous assembly. We think that one decisive basis and with such action and speed up the government as soon as possible and a consistent and comprehensive law, a bill of law, with simulations, observations, proposals, and that the debate on this law is broad and public and not only with associations, but also with all other interested ones, so that we can pass a law of consensus which would have said a real imperative of today's Croatian moment, and solve at least one of those two that I think is Croatia's problem, we will find it difficult to resolve the frustration of war profiting, but also if there is a political will, but that we can reach a consensus on Croatian defenders and the Homeland War, I think we can fight for a high degree of consensus on that. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7777	Thank you. Honorable representative of Tonino Picula.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7778	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, Madam Commissioner, colleagues and colleagues. It is indisputable that defenders, especially Croatian wartime military disabled communities, are especially well-deserved, but especially sensitive people. I also believe in our debate today that we've affected the very sensitivity of the people that we're talking about here. In addition to the justified need for state policy to monitor and promote the exercise of their rights, there is a far less justified need for a part of the policy, to manipulate the situation in the defence community. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families, products not only legal and financial, but also moral and political effects. Unfortunately, there is no consensus on what our debate today proves. The lack of this bill is not only a lack of expert and statistical arguments as stated by colleagues, but also an ambition to function as a political indictment. By abolishing the translation institute, it is not in the opinion that injustices are corrected and that the alleged dignity of the defenders is restored, but tends to undo differences in the defence community, differences arising from abuse of rights. Equality of the rights defenders as a motive, which is welcome, must not be carried out in such a way as to enable or legalise even abuse of that right. It is so good, not bad, as stated in the assessment of the situation in the bill, if the translation institute causes uncertainty and dissatisfaction among those who have dual solutions, all those wartime military disabled with orderly solutions should welcome any introduction of order and separation from those who have misused the obligation of the state to care for them. It is also true that malversions provoke both the social and economic situation, and a certain political atmosphere in our society. The poor situation in these sectors threatens dignity, of course not only of the disabled, but of workers and citizens. I think a permanent solution to the doubts that are being followed and today's debate may need to be sought in the standardisation of the procedures of verifying its simplification and acceleration. I'm not putting the ramps down. In addition, it is worth quoting a sentence from an open letter to one of the associations of Croatian military disabled Homeland War, which reads "that the Homeland War should not serve anyone as a front for profit or in a political or material way". And more than that, the fight against dishonest and punishable actions in the process of gaining the rights provided only for true defenders and victims, can be seen as a parallel to the fight against the qualifications of the Homeland War in the latest Hague indictments. Because the truth about the Homeland War should also be defended by facts abroad. But these facts should be hardened in Croatia. The real criminalisation of the Homeland War, via facts, produces those who use a lack or no control over the use of rights to which defenders and disabled persons have. This chain of crime can be longer or shorter. But it's the worst if there's a state on his ends that's abstinent from its own responsibility for the situation. Translation or revision may also be a united form of fighting corruption, in which it participates and which service providers outside the defence community. In the end, I would also like to say as a Croatian defender, that the wounds of Croatian wartime people are not only their wounds, because they are based on the existence of the Republic of Croatia. Yet these are also their individual wounds, which we must not devalue by law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7779	Thank you, dear fellow Picula. Honorable representative Krešimir Cosic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7780	Your Honor, Mr. President. It is certainly quite clear that we need as high-quality a law on the rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families as possible. We need the additions of this law to make it as high-quality and functional as possible in the interest of Croatian defenders. Not only the law, but we need the funds, and in this sense it is more than obvious that this government is making little efforts through its budget to fully implement all the rights of Croatian defenders. But the rights of Croatian defenders are not only important for compensation, they are not only related to privatisation, but I would say, above all, the rights of Croatian defenders related to the full truth about the Homeland War. And that truth about the Homeland War not only is it threatened today, I'd say more than ever, and we can't be careless about it happening in the future. And that truth about the Homeland War is the fundamental right of all of us, not just Croatian defenders, not just their families, I would say people sitting here in the Croatian Parliament and all future Croatian generations. We care very much for that truth about the Homeland War to be present on a wider international stage. And it's also particularly important. For these reasons, I think it is particularly necessary to warn about some shortcomings that are more than obvious when it comes to protecting the truth about the Homeland War not only in Croatia, but I would say very much on the international stage because the Republic of Croatia is becoming very soon we hope all of the important international integrations of both NATO and the European Union. And it doesn't matter how the Croatian defender feels on some peace mission who knows where. In this respect, it is certainly important to warn of the fact that there are no serious non-governmental institutions in Croatia which will be professionally, scientifically, professionally and responsibly refer to the historical structure that exists. It is inadmissible that the best organized non-governmental institution dealing with the truth, namely the untrue of the Homeland War, is the veritas alliance of the storks. Croatia must and can do much more to have quality, not just government institutions to deal with all these problems. Croatia can and must include its other ministries in all of this. Special Ministry of Science, Ministry of Culture. The question is to what extent is the Croatian national, scientific programme includes research related to the Homeland War, we do not need politicised topics and improvised articles, books about the Homeland War, but we need serious, scientific works professionally reviewed because they are only in our long-term interest, in the interest of the truth about the Homeland War, in the interest of all Croatian defenders and in the interest of the Croatian future. Croatia certainly has its institutions but it is a question of whether some scientific institutes for social research are doing their job. Do some social science classes do their job. Protecting defenders should also, in this way and in this sense, be done more and in this sense, the rights of Croatian defenders through full institutional protection and the truth about the Homeland War are our permanent obligation, the permanent obligation of all these institutions dealing with science, who are considering and who need an argument, always, not only now but also in the future to have clear views on the rights of Croatian defenders, or on the truth about the Homeland War. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7781	Honorable representative Mato Raven.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7782	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. With all the good intentions, it is difficult to take the impression, here today many predecessors before me that Croatian defenders are still victims of the policy of ideology as it is, here we are today but also on the Committee on War Veterans by one of yesterday's participants. All the complexity of problems related to Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families is best reflected in the fact that in the first 100 days, the Government has secondly put changes and additions to this Law on the agenda. The basic question that imposes on all of us at this time who are acting responsiblely in this House and especially on us Croatian defenders how to correct the old and not to make new injustices. If we're going to do it this time, I'm going to be able to share that pleasure with all of you, and primarily with all those covered by this law. Until the beginning of the debate, I was convinced that both in the past and in the past meetings of the Croatian Parliament the intentions of both MPs and promoters were fair. That they were protecting the integrity of the Homeland War, but they were also trying to pass the laws that were really the best at the moment. But several of my predecessors heard that your law and our law were passed in the Croatian Parliament. What I'm holding personally isn't good and it doesn't serve anyone the honor. The defenders are one, the problems are less the same, and we bring how some say that I do not agree with, our laws and your laws. I hope that we will quickly pass our law that will be in the function of all citizens of the Republic of Croatia. And not just on this basis, but on everyone else. Of course, how successful we have been with the laws that have been passed, and as far as these populations are concerned, they have been read out of everything that has been said, so I best believe that they will conclude for themselves our citizens. What I believe in is the fact that the translation or revisions primarily intended to remove all doubts, above all, about the honesty of Croatian defenders. Primaryly help to ensure that the genuine disabled of their family, their rights are maximum and lastingly protected. But it's obvious that there have been some mistakes in the operationalization, and there have been a lot of my predecessors, so I wouldn't take up time from the regulations themselves, commissions, etc., which has caused some part of the defense population to be disdained and one part with the right and others for a reason. Starting with that famous saying that assault is the best defense. Starting with a line of small resistance or as someone in this House said, the truth in the last term "who has pitted, pitted". It's also understandable to me that many of our comrades have come back alive and less healthy from the battlefield to realize that while they were on the battlefield, not only their workplace was missing, but the most common consequence of conversion and acceptance and their factories. As a Croatian defender, as a volunteer of the Homeland War, I am convinced that I know very well a significant part of my comrades and their problems bar from the area of Brod-Posavina County, and to be a little immodest and a little wider. That a significant part of Croatian defenders are trying to provide themselves and their families with such a existence as the last possibility when they are not injured in the Homeland War they sought salvation in proving the disease from PTSD and beyond. And there was this common solidarity of Croatian defenders, the disabled of the Homeland War, who, as we like to say the real disabled, who simply let things go their own during and for that reason, I dare say and passed in the previous assembly of laws that wanted to help the true disabled to protect themselves and from such fellow fighters. Of course, I want to say very precisely that we wouldn't get the wrong idea that fortunately, it's not a general approach, that such an approach is a minority, but we can't hide the facts and stick our head in the sand that such phenomena were gone or not. Personally, I believe that only by opening up other possibilities and perspectives, I primarily think new jobs will make this problem much smaller. Unfortunately, many of our comrades still cannot explain to themselves or their families, or to their fellow citizens how they cannot solve their basic existential life problems, and they have fought and given maximum for what we have today. Of course I can't help it because there aren't any jobs, at least there's not enough. I can't help it because, again, I say fortunately, they're not wounded, and in fact, as at least one part of my comrades can say, it's really absurd, but I have to prove that in fact, they've survived the war. Or as they say, “It is not worth being honest.” Of course, I do not share such an opinion and it is up to all of us to take all measures to help our comrades become useful members of this society and to find the exit again in the quality and full contribution of the development of the Republic of Croatia because it is known that defenders have never and will never seek a privileged position but indeed the possibility of still actively working in another way to contribute to the construction of the country for which they were willing to give the most, to give their life. And that is why I call on all of you colleagues and colleagues to stop us from saying the hard words, especially when it comes to this population, to protect the defenders and sometimes from ourselves. To help them make cold, sober and responsibly decisions, and like this one today, which I personally am not sure is good, but is definitely heading towards the path I hope to find a lasting and quality solution for all defenders. I hope that, finally, to be more free in saying, by underlining the line and by passing a new law which, I hope, the Government is preparing the studio, that it will respect all experience in implementing previous laws, remove all observed failures and thus allow each defender to truly feel full dignity and thus protect the Homeland War, but also the Republic of Croatia as a whole. Only in this way will we avoid perhaps a re-show of disdain and those sayings that I said at the outset that defenders are still victims of politics or ideologies. That's what's not good and that's what I'm saying we're all going to find ways together, find enough sober heads to bring the future law right to the benefit of all the defenders. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7783	I thank my colleague, Raven. I'd like to interrupt with your permission now so we can continue at 3:00. At 15 o'clock is the first in line representative of Zvonimir Mršić and then two clubs of 5 minutes each. We'll continue at 3:00 then. My colleagues and colleagues continue to work. I ask the honourable representative of Zvonimir Mrsic to take the ricket. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7785	Thank you very much, Mr. President, and thank you for your accuracy at the beginning of the afternoon session. I hope my argument won't put too much pressure on my stomach after lunch. I am the Croatian defender and the SDPovac and I do not speak on behalf of Croatian defenders but speak as a Croatian defender on my own behalf. At the same time, I deny this path the right to speak for me as a Croatian defender. I've gained my status according to the law and there's no fear of any translation of law enforcement audits, amendments to laws, additions to laws or terminations of laws. With my participation in the Homeland War, I've done my duty to the State, and I don't expect the Homeland to bother me about anything. The country must take care of the disabled and the families of the missing Croatian defenders. Unfortunately, some of those who did not participate in the Homeland War at all or were killed in places or times that had nothing to do with participating in the Homeland War took advantage of the opportunity and got their hands on privileges that do not belong to them at all. This morning, when I came to this session, I spoke to several of my fellow citizens who unfortunately had this consequence of participating in the Homeland War, who were suffering from post-traumatic stress syndrome. And they warned me that they had evidence that they had a list of people who didn't participate in the Homeland War, who had the status of disabled, offered me even that list and offered me a record to prove that they didn't belong to such rights. At the same time, of course, they also warned about the incorrectness of the translation process but also in some other situations where Croatian defenders can or should exercise the right to state care. However, the abolition of a person's law and the abolition of certain measures will not eliminate the incorrectness of the procedure because the incorrectness of the proceedings does not depend on the proper measure of the inaccuracy of the procedure depends on the people who are carrying out the measure. So if the translation process was incorrect then it was done in any case by individuals. They seemed to be misbehaving toward those who had been subject to this translation. We all agree that the abuse of the law on the rights of Croatian defenders and other bound laws was. However, we do not give a solution to how these mistakes are corrected, I cannot possibly agree with some of the thesis that has been presented here today, which is more like the biligistic theory that it is easy to identify or that some can recognize the real one from a false defender. I don't know if it's supposed to be legally described how physically he looks real from a false defender. Or what traits the real of a false defender should have that you and those can easily recognize him. After all, I think that there are no false defenders there are only defenders of all others who have misused rights and that is, they have brutally abused this country's care for the people who have made a greater contribution to the creation of this country. And they not only need to be lifted from those rights but should be prosecuted for misappropriating what the state pays back to the disabled and their families. But it also needs to be punished for those who have not paid enough attention to the process of giving and issuing such solutions, so they have given the administrations certain rights or, in this case, privileges to which they could not possibly have had the right. So if there's a problem in the translation process, then it needs to be corrected. And there's no need for that process to be lifted. The question is, what is the meaning of this law that we have here? if the law of translation is indeed bad, if it is what some want to say. Then why don't we break that law, put the whole thing back where it was before the law was passed. Because then he's bad for everything. The law cannot be good for those who are obviously wronged because they are either granted permanent status, or their degree of disability has been increased. And bad for those with whom they were found to be either in the wrong way, or their status should not have been established at all. And now we're going to be willing to admit and leave and that effect is working, but with those with whom they should not be prosecuted, we're going to tell them, okay, you're all forgiven. In this way we will not correct the injustice, according to defenders who deserve the care of this country. So we can't just valorize the effect of the law according to positive practices. At the same time the law attacks in general. TO make at least one injustice right is a good law, but if we end this already, then we should certainly say what it is. Which will allow future time for systematic removals to identify those who have misused the care of the state. Because if we don't, then we continue to wrong against Croatian wartime disableds against their families and families of the dead and the missing. That is because some of their care will be taken away by those who do not deserve it. Socially, the greatest injustice to the defenders does not deprive the privilege of those who have no right to do so because they are not led to the rights of Croatian defenders, but is concerned by the community of the Homeland for those who unfortunately had to put their lives down or were wounded or permanently sick as a result of participation in the Croatian Homeland War. This should therefore mean setting up a systematic way of identifying those who abuse and thus protecting those who rightly expect the state to provide lasting care for them in future life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7786	Thank you. It ended an individual debate. We have another club of five minutes, a club of HSP, a respected representative of Pero Kovacevic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7787	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen. The HSP Club will support and vote for this law, but here in the final part I would like to say something, which is that, on our proposal for a conclusion adopted by this House, and on which the Government has acted and established a professional commission to provide legal information assistance, we consider that at this time, and it means the fact that the Hague prosecution is in indictments against General Gotovina, Bobetko, Markac, Cermak, Praljak, Petkovic and others in preparation is declaring Croatia a country created on crime, and the late President Tudjman, together with the political military summit, attributes the legal fiction to the joint criminal grasp of politicians and military commanders. Therefore, under alleged criminal acts, the political military leadership of the Homeland War Croatian defenders as well as those defending themselves in Bosnia and Herzegovina have become criminals, war criminals... In such a difficult, serious, really critical situation as the foundations of the Croatian State have been questioned, the right to independence as set out in Article 51 has been deprived. [[You don't understand.]] The Charter of the United Nations has taken away the dignity of the Croatian man, the citizen. It is not enough just to break down legally or politically all unacceptable content of the Hague indictments but to include all other proposals of active self-defense in parallel. In fact, it is high time for the world to testify about the truth about the Homeland War to be established professional bodies that will prepare for the scientific and factual fact that it was the Homeland War, when it came from the exemption of arms from TO Croatia, the RAM plan, the balvana revolution, the number of deaths and wounded, the number of war damages killed in the UNP zones, the security zones. So we have to document it and present it to the world. We must present it to the world because it will not forgive our grandchildren and great-grandsons. It is a sad fact that Croatia has done almost nothing in the world in presenting the truth about the Homeland War and thus brought itself into a subordinate position and allowed the tribunal to systematically falsify the history of the Homeland War. It is regrettable that until today there is no historical and documentary factual state of the Homeland War, and we must do so urgently and witness to the world, translate it into all languages and Arabic, both Russian and English, send to all ambassadors, send it to all parliamentarians, and in this way as Israel has always done, take this off of itself, we are mandatory for our grandchildren, great-grandson, for our children and for all those killed in the Homeland War. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7788	Thank you. Mr. Secretary of State, would you like to look back? Here you are, Tomislav Ivić, State Secretary at the Ministry of Family Affairs, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7789	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, I thank you first and foremost for today's debate. I think it was constructive even though there were increased tones, but it is understandable and obviously also from this debate today that there are a lot of unresolved issues and problems when it comes to defenders, the defence population, and that I am personally confident and convinced that by abolishing translation we will solve a significant and large problem, but this problem has not been solved and through this debate the question of what is called the new law and the working group within the ministry has seriously come to this job and indeed the desire is to pass a law that will also be acceptable to the defenders, but which will also be adopted in this Parliament in the House as possible by consensus. I think that's what defenders deserve, that this is in some way the obligation of the Homeland to do everything they've done for the Homeland, and that it's not about any privileges but about the systematic solution to the problem that I'm pressing this population. It is a desire to be a law that will be realistic, not that we constantly come into a situation to drag tails around, I still don't know from 97, 2000, 2001, 2002, namely the obligation to defend. So once again I thank you all and hope that the Croatian Parliament will adopt these amendments to the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7790	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We will vote, as well as on all legislative proposals, on what we will discuss on 2 April. Fourth. Final draft law amending and supplementing the Act on the rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families, emergency procedure, P.Z. No. 56. The debate on the text of the Law is over. In accordance with Article 154. I shall put the rules of procedure to the vote on the following point: In order to resuscitate Article 7(2). The law amending and supplementing the Law on Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families has particularly justified reasons. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? I find that with 91 votes yes and 33 against the proposed conclusion. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Legislatives and the Honorable Representative, Željko Kurtov. I'd like the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister Jadranka Kosor to report on the amendments. First amendments to the Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7792	Mr. President, the Government accepts the amendment of the Legislative Committee to Article 6.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7793	Thank you very much. It becomes an integral part of the Law. On Article 7?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7794	The Government accepts the amendment of the Legislative Committee to Article 7 by reference to, or note, Mr President of the Committee and Mr President-in-Office of the Parliament that the word "baseline" refers to the third row of Article 7. That's what's important for the pronunciation.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7795	Mr. Boras, president of the board.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7796	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7797	Thank you very much. The amendment of the Honorable Representative, Željko Kurtov.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7798	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The government accepts the good intentions of this amendment but does not accept such a formulated amendment because, under the official duty of the Croatian Defence Ministry, the Ministry of the Homeland War, or the Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity, will bring individual solutions in which they will be decided to indicate that users will start paying unpaid incomes from 1 January of next year.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7799	A colleague of Kurt's.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7800	Madam Minister, Mr. President, I would ask that there be a vote on this because really, as far as the defense attorney is concerned, I think it will be decided without them having earned it, that they are not to blame. Therefore, I demand a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7801	Thank you. Who is for this amendment that the government does not accept? Thanks, he didn't get enough votes. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? I find that, with 96 votes for, 18 against and 18 abstentions, the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families has been adopted in the text as proposed by the Proposer along with the amendments adopted. Now we also have a proposal for a conclusion of the Club of Representatives of the HSP. I ask the Minister, Vice-President of the Government, to be made aware of the proposal for this conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7802	Mr. President, the Government fully agrees with the proposed conclusion, i.e. the conclusions of the HSP Representatives Club. However, we propose that these conclusions be proposed in the framework of a recent debate agreed between the clubs of parliamentary parties and the basis which I assume will be the conclusion. And in that context, the government will fully accept these conclusions of the Croatian Party of Rights Club. So in that sense, I suggest that today these conclusions are withdrawn with the government's promise that they will be accepted after this recent debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7803	The HSP repatriation club then draws conclusions and we put them in this agreed procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-23-0.u7804	Thank you. Proposal for a law on special conditions for placing flour on the market, with a final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading of P.Z. No. 58 This is the proposal of the Government, and we have a proposal for a law on the regulation of the market for flour – Proposer of the Club of Representatives of the HSS, first reading of P.Z. No. 25 Proposer is the Club of Representatives of the HSS. Given that both legislative projects cover the same matter in a certain way, I propose that a united debate be held on these two proposals by MPs. Do the MPs agree? They're lying. Thank you very much. So let's go to a united debate with these two bill proposals. I ask Minister Cobankovic to further explain the proposal for the government's bill.
