ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-29-0.u10937	On behalf of the club, Mr. President. Since the draft laws are the number 40 and 41 proposals for new laws, bill number 62 are only amendments and additions to existing laws, content, motives and grounds for these three draft laws are neither the same nor identical and I would ask that discussion be brought together on the proposal of Laws 40 and 41, but not 62. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-29-0.u10938	Okay. I have this proposal not to have a united debate about this law number, it's just one article. Well, we can do this to my colleague Lesar, so you'll all get a chance to do that. You have plenty of time, matter is more or less identical. Is the Assembly for a United Debate? Okay. Thank you very much. And welcome students and high school students from Koprivnica who are at the gallery. So let's go to the bill of law on, all three are about local and regional (regional) self-government. [[Applause.]] Proposal for a law on local and regional (regional) self-government – Proposer of the Club of Representatives HNS-PGS, first reading, P.Z. No. 40 Proposal for a law on the selection of members of the representative bodies of units of local and regional (regional) self-government and the selection of municipal mayors, mayors, mayors and mayors of the City of Zagreb – Proposer of the Club of Representatives of the HNS-PGS, first reading, P.Z. No. 41 Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the selection of members of the representative bodies of units of local and regional (regional) self-government – Proposer of the club of representatives of the IDS, first reading, P.Z. No. 62. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, Local and Regional Self-Government and by the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System. Since the debate is united, these remaining two laws also go. I'd like a representative of Law Proposer number 40 to take a word for it. What? And 41. Dear Representative Darko Shantic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-29-0.u10939	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary of State with associates, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. I believe that you will agree with me that today is not a question in front of us whether a direct selection of the mayors, mayors and mayors is necessary, but that the question is how to implement it. It is precisely because we are not asking whether in our legal system, in our electoral system, in our local self-government we need or not a direct selection of executives, but the question is how to make this project a quality of realization I will not speak to you nor to assure our public about what the advantages are, or perhaps what the shortcomings of such a project are. But I will say a few words about the genealogy of the creation of the project directly selecting the mayors, mayors and mayors. The existing law was passed in April 2001 for local elections held in May of the same year. At that time, in the former assembly, the Croatian People's Party submitted about 50 amendments aimed at establishing a direct selection model for executives in local and regional, or regional self-government. Since the amendments were not accepted, the Croatian People's Party referred to the parliamentary procedure of two laws in early 2003: Law on the selection of members of the representative bodies of units of local and regional, regional self-government and the Law on the selection of municipal mayors, mayors, mayors and mayors of the City of Zagreb, so two legal texts with the same title that are before you today for consideration. The proposals were adopted in the first reading, all clubs made a positive statement but of course there were numerous remarks and proposals and we have followed for the purposes of the second reading, so I will say almost all the remarks made in the broad debate, we have observed the remarks that the Government then made on these two legislative proposals and prepared and released in the second reading procedure these two laws but unfortunately there was no vote because in the meantime, the mandate of the previous Assembly expired, so here we have practically the same text from the second reading from the last reading called again before you. So the Croatian People's Party and the Primorje-Gorski Alliance are proposing again in the procedure of these two laws. Just a few more words why we decided to put two integrated texts in front of you, not amendments and additions to existing laws. The first reason lies in the fact that it is a significantly altered character and the functioning of local and regional self-government, that it is precisely an offer to discuss two new legal texts that we are giving you both the opportunity to discuss and those segments of those two laws that we have not entered. The extensive debate that we had and outside this assembly pointed to the need for some other institutes that we had not entered, so we took over the old laws, also to change them as for example the electoral commissions, the issue of local self-government, campaign costs, the costs of the elections themselves, etc. So we continue to debate and expect that the debate will be extended to those other parts, and not only to what is the subject of our initiative, which is the direct selection of the leaders of the executive government in local and regional self-government. There is another very practical reason, which is that by adopting two new legal texts, and not changing and supplementing, we get two laws that are transparent and easy to apply in our next local elections, because unfortunately I have to conclude that we are not very diligent in the direction of making consolidated texts of a number of amendments and additions to the laws that we have passed, so let's say yesterday we discussed the fifth amendment of the law on bankruptcy, and so far we are afraid that even in this law that is extremely sensitive in its application, when the next local elections come, there could also be different interpretations of these amendments and additions, so we better have one integrated legal text. But something concrete about these two legal texts we suggest in the first reading. I will locate a dozen of the most important solutions that have been most relevant in the debate so far, with observations and different opinions and views. I'll start with the Law on the Selection of Representative Authorities and the selection of mayors, mayors and mayors. In Article 5, we regulate the issue of incompatibility of functions. Our proposal has affected this incompatibility extremely broadly, and we will listen to something about this incompatibility in the proposal he referred to in the procedure and IDS. And our proposal is to virtually in the shortest possible way and by vertical and by horizon rule out the possibility of duplicating functions. So one person is one function. Of course, that, I say, will be a maximum attitude and approach to cause certain objections, a certain debate, and we are already ready to hear, immediately, all the reasonable arguments that would be against our proposals or supplementing our proposals, and for the purposes of another reading and we will appreciate what we consider useful and good. The second moment that has caused many different approaches and reflections in the debate so far is the issue of independent lists, namely independent candidates for mayors, mayors and mayors. It's an article in our 16th Bill of Choice. Reflections in the debate came from the fact that even independent lists, or independent candidates, are unnecessary, that they should not be predicted at all, and that independent candidates should also have a list that would also go to the polls. And there was another interpolating question, whether a candidate for the mayor, mayor and mayor should go to a direct choice alone or together with their deputies, or assistants. It was disputed whether to say numerically, therefore, nominally how many signatures should be collected in the municipality, the city, and the cities are classified in 3 categories per size. That is, the county and the town of Karlovac, so that an independent candidate for the mayor, mayor or mayor could point out his candidacy. Here we are, of course, also open to your comments on whether we have offered you the numbers needed to highlight the candidacy well measured, well guessed, or perhaps even should, because we have thought about it, too, taking a percentage of the number of voters, so the percentage would, therefore, not nominally, but as a percentage of the number of voters also be a criterion for emphasising independent candidacy. The least dispute should trigger a proposal on how to choose because everyone is less or less, unanimity for the choice to be conducted in two circles. So in a way that the President of the Republic of Croatia is also elected, but within that, it can be controversial which most would eventually win the candidate in the first round. We are here, and here I am obliged to apologize on behalf of the promoter, left one correction to Article 30 where we made a printing error, we did not sign up for most of the voters to be elected in the first round. I believe that such a high percentage required by voters will eventually be too high in the first round. So, that there will be proposals to go to most of those who went to the polls, however, our proposal is that in the first round, the only way to win is if most of the voters get votes. In the second round, of course, one of the two strongest first-round candidates to win the most votes. I repeat, such a model, for such a model has been declared by all the participants in the debate so far, except for what we expect, I say, a debate on whether we set a too sharp criterion when we asked for most of the votes of all voters that should possibly in the first round give support to the directly candidate head man. So much about the Law on Elections, even as I was saying, other issues can be opened and we expect them to be discussed. As regards the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government, therefore, the law that practically regulates the functioning of local self-government has been significantly higher than the proposals and remarks so that I will try to locate only those most important. Although, I say, there are still a lot of details, let me put it that way, or maybe a little less important moments that deserve their attention as well. The size of units of local self-government to which this law should be applied was particularly under criticism. In fact, the existing Law distinguishes municipalities of up to 3,000 inhabitants and over 3,000, given the existence or absence of headship and there were suggestions and thinking that something similar would be done with this law. In other words, to create different status for smaller municipalities compared to larger municipalities. However, we have taken the view that regardless of the size of the unit of local self-government, regardless of what is announced and the project of regional reconstruction, we can now uniquely resolve the issue of directly elected mayor, mayor or mayor, regardless of the size of that unit. There has been an observation that this law is going prematurely because no regional reshuffle has been made. We reject this assessment because we believe that these two laws can be applied independently of what the future regional reconstruction is expected to be, at least according to the announcements, a larger, smaller number of local self-government units. But waiting for this regional reconstruction would mean practically entering the next election under the old law. We are afraid that calling for regional reshuffles to be made first, and then discussing these two legal texts is practically an alibi for these two regulations not to be passed in time, and we remind you, the next regular local elections are in the 5th month next year, so in a little over a year. A large number of objections, reflections and doubts were also about the organisation of the executive authority itself. Here we are esteeming the comments and the clubs and representatives of the previous call, and including observations during the debate in this meeting we have decided to give up definitely the concept of the earlier or better said existing headship as a single body that helps the mayor to carry out his functions and make certain decisions, and we propose to you the Office of Mayors. Just from the Croatian Democratic Community, here is a colleague now Minister Ms Marina Dropulić most of all spoke of it in the past meeting, and she is the one who advocated that the headship would now be as unsustainable in one system where the mayor is elected directly. According to our proposal, the mayor, mayor or mayor would appoint his assistants and other persons as the head of certain offices and other persons who would assist him and play practically one advisory role. There is a question here that we are really open to debate and that is whether directly running, mayor or mayor should go to elections together with their deputies to get support from citizens, we call them assistants, and we have really thought about it a lot and we have been polling about it, and if in the last final text it would be that both assistants and deputy mayors also go to direct elections, here is our distinguished colleague Lesar will be extremely pleased because that was his proposal, but we may have decided to make a different version and I will say which object was established in case the deputies don't go to a direct choice. A colleague, Mato Arlović, was justified in the discussion at the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system, to give these assistants or deputies one opportunity to perform certain functions in the event of the replacement of a prevented or absent mayor without having been directly supported by citizens, and then, in that sense, those assistants, or deputies, should indeed get a citizen check, so in the elections themselves, citizens would know who are the closest co-workers of the directly elected mayor, mayor or mayor. The following question, which has raised great attention and, of course, different views and opinions, is the question of not voting in confidence or recalling the directly elected executive head. In the first reading, if I'm not mistaken, colleague Cain of the IDS said that it might happen that we can get a sheriff we'll never be able to solve or take down, in other words, that people who are going to do harm and not benefit from that local or regional self-government unit. We, however, have offered two mechanisms that can be called off, we believe that both of these mechanisms are of quality, but I am saying that there may be some other solutions within these two proposals that will fix all this together. We have predicted that the representative body is one body that can initiate the non-confidential voting procedure in such a way that one third of the members of the representative body submits a proposal for a non-confidential vote, and that the members of the representative body make a decision on the vote of that non-trust. I believe that some of you will object to the majority of the members of the representative body and say that this is too much because, according to our proposal, there is a referendum being held by the Government of the Republic of Croatia in which the referendum is again a statement of citizens, because they have also chosen the directly elected leader of the vote, so it is up to them to declare again whether the reasons for the impeachment of the one whom they chose and if the majority of the voters went out to the elections confirmed this mistrust would be called for new elections. We have installed a safeguard mechanism here so that the representative body will not be easily involved in this process, predicting that in the event of a referendum, and the same is true in the election that would follow the referendum, the person who has been voted "untrusted" in the case of the disbandment of the representative body, so we are thus dissuading the representative body from one of the unsatisfactory ones, I would say the chicaneous process of resolution. I believe that the debate will raise questions as to whether we need a referendum for two reasons. First, we are aware that the referendum law does not provide that the Government of the Republic of Croatia is calling a referendum on local issues but on the representative body of local or local self-government units, so the referendum law should also be amended to bring this into line. If this Parliament, these clubs, the Committees, the Government declares itself in the direction that an unnecessary referendum is necessary, we may give up the referendum, but in any case we would be inclined to propose that the three-quarter majority of the members of the Representative's body vote not to be trusted after which re-elections are opened, and in the event of a re-election that a representative body must then be disbanded, because apparently the head man of the executive authority and the representative body are in such a conflict that there is a blockage of the entire system. We expect exactly in this segment the most debates and your proposals that we say we are open to embezzling in the final draft of the law, if we get of course support to go to another reading. Another way to recall, i.e. to resolve the directly elected executive officer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which can, on a proposal from the authority responsible for local and regional self-government, also relieve the mayor of Article 82, because of the frequency of serious violations of the laws and other regulations, when other regulations are said, then think of the statutes, Rules of Procedure and other acts adopted by local self-government. and we recognise that the formulation of frequent serious violations of laws and other regulations is one legal standard, but such legal standards in all regulations have to show what constitutes a more serious violation of the laws and other regulations, and we are also aware that we are also giving the government the possibility of policy, in other words, to intervene and perhaps where there are no legitimate reasons, so we have also installed a safeguard mechanism here, because so resolved by the Government the resolved mayor, the mayor or mayor may seek constitutional protection before the Constitutional Court, which is required within 15 days to make a decision on his request, i.e. a request against the resolution decision. We believe that we are with these two options, so the representative body is initiating the impeachment that the government solves, if it solves the dilemma of being a direct choice, where citizens have declared whether or not the legitimacy of the first man of the executive government solves the question, whether it will be possible if it turns out that the choice was not a good frontal man and I call it off, perhaps in the eye and complicated and expensive mechanisms. In the case of available and available property issues, because someone in the debate said that by calling for Article 391(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, it would be possible to make a call to Article 391(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The law on ownership and other real rights that stipulates that the headship is now missing, now that the mayor, the mayor or mayor could have happened that simply someone indiscriminately and unfoundedly sold out the property, we predicted that the representative body was making a decision, so the opposite of Article 391. The law on ownership and other real rights makes a decision on the availability of property, but that the proposal is made by the mayor, mayor or mayor. Of course it will be necessary to comply with this law with the Property Act. In that part, however, the law on ownership is general law, and this one is special, and this analogy can also be applied to the offered institute. The demarcation of powers between the executive authority and the representative body was also subject to the debate, such as Articles 91 to 94 of the Law. Here I must be categorical with the claim that unfounded objections are that we have not resolved this law. I would kindly ask you to read the articles from 91 to 94 really carefully, so you will see that we have included all the options for the demarcation. The municipal chiefs, mayors and mayors assume all the powers and tasks they had under the provisions of the existing law, so they had heads. Specific laws laying down the powers and tasks of the local unit body will comply with the provisions of this law by 1 May 2005, misspelled in 2004. A colleague, Lesar, told us on the board that about 37 laws are currently regulating the issue of these powers and jobs, so a major procedure will be needed in special laws that will regulate what and how the issue of the relationship between the representative body and the mayors is being distinguished. and finally here are the statutes and other regulations that will also regulate that area so that just by applying these regulations I think we have covered the whole issue of demarcation. It's nice to meet you, and I have to say it in the end, because I can see that I'm already burning a red light. That the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the Political System and the Committee on Legislatives supported the first reading of these two proposals. We will again accept all suggestions that we evaluate to the reasons, install them into the final text of the law, and we believe that for the second reading we will indeed have two good and quality laws for the needs of the local elections in early May 2005. We expect in further discussion the addition of fellow Lesar who has worked intensively with the other members on these two legal texts. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-29-0.u10940	Thank you very much. On behalf of the IDS regarding this bill, the respected representative of Dorotea Pesic-Bukovac. Proposed Law No. 62.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-29-0.u10941	Dear President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Here is a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the selection of members of representative bodies of units of local and regional, or regional self-government. A lot has been said lately about the election of members of the representative bodies of the units of local self-government. The IDS has proposed these amendments because the shortcomings that could be modified in this proposal have been observed. This proposal is actually about expanding the incopatibility of functions. For the purpose of Article 5(2), the provisions of Article 5(2) shall apply. The law on the selection of members of the representative bodies of the unit of local self-government is prescribed that a member of the representative body cannot at the same time be a judge, judge of the Constitutional Court, Prime Minister, State Attorney, Deputy State Attorney, Attorney General, Deputy Attorney General, and so on. all those officials are known. Practice has shown that this legal arrangement is insufficient for the quality and functional structure of local self-government units. Namely, the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia stipulates that units of local self-government are doing business in the area which directly meets the needs of citizens, and in particular those relating to the organisation of settlements, housing, spatial and urban planning, municipal activities, child care, social care, primary health care, education and primary education, culture, physical culture and sport. It is from such constitutional arrangement that units of local self-government come from the need for council members of city councils at similar and county assemblies to be directly familiar with the problem they decide and to contribute to the development of the local environment at council meetings. However, in practice, employees in diplomatic and consular offices shall not be covered by the circle referred to in Article 5(2). The law on the selection of members of the representative bodies of the units of local self-government and therefore fines as members of the representative body and does not really act in this capacity. As the state guarantees citizens the right to local and regional self-government and it is mandatory to constantly improve the work of local self-government units, we propose that the law be amended and complemented in that sense, so as to eliminate these illogicalities. I can give you an example of where the city council must meet at least four times a year and in principle it is at least once a month. It means the councilman must attend at least four sessions a year. What does that really mean in nature? I would like someone to tell me and explain to me how someone can, for example, come from Australia four times a year and at the same time perform an honorary duty of the councilor or perhaps in some way he can be informed of what is happening in his municipality or city but the primary duty of the councillor and the basic thing to be present on the city council, of course, cannot be carried out. He also cannot perform the city councilor's functions qualityfully or decide anything. Here, I can quote you from today's Vesnik on a concrete example of what it looks like. The diplomat Shuran from India attends meetings of the City Council of Pula. The Precocean distance of New Delhi and Pula is no obstacle to Mr. Shuran being at the same time serving as the real secretary of the Croatian Embassy in India and the council of the City Council of Pula. Of course, the daily what the Ministry of Foreign Affairs thinks about where it has been officially confirmed that Shuran is on vacation and said the ministry spokesman contacted Zrinjevac as soon as he arrived in Croatia. The ministry's legal service has considered the Shuran case and according to positive regulations that are in force, there is nothing disputed that the diplomat also performs the duties of council members in the local self-government representative body. When it comes, of course, to doubts about who is financing Shuran's trip from New Delhi Silobrčić, he explained that according to the ministry's rules, the official of the embassy especially when it comes to overseas destinations has the right once a year to enter the country on vacation. So, only once a year and city councils have to be held at least four times a year. However, he now claims to have paid for his own trip. So far we can say that the foreign ministry has first encountered such a case and this pulse is an absolute precedent so far. How many times will the City Council of Pula meet, given that the crucial factor is thousands of kilometers from Pula, we do not know that Mr. Shuran is actually providing quorum in the City Council of Pula and that the City Council sessions cannot be held if Mr. Shuran is not available. But according to more, let me tell you how much one of these times costs. According to Croatia Airlines, a thousand 200 euros cost Zagreb-New Delhi a ticket. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-29-0.u10942	Thank you. Now we're going to the debate by. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Thank you. They don't want to. A representative of the government? State Secretary Antun Palaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-29-0.u10943	Your Honor, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the House of Representatives! The government is pleased to discuss local self-government because the Government of the Republic of Croatia in this term has serious intentions to regulate local self-government in accordance with the highest European standards to allow citizens to exercise constitutional law on local self-government and to decide on matters of local importance at local level. The government is also planning to implement a large decentralisation. Therefore, material that will be an integral part of the entire package of laws will be prepared in the Government's resolutions, which will be regulated by local self-government but when the time comes. This is certainly not today because I am responsible for saying that there are no speculations about early local elections. Local elections will be when the law provides for it in 2005 and by then there is enough time for local self-government to be arranged fully. We have before us a united debate on three legislative proposals. One that regulates the relationship between the body of the local self-government unit and the government as an organic law but we are not satisfied with the solutions offered. Of course, there are already solutions that have come to life in practice but there are many problems already in the current functioning of local self-government and the direct choice of mayors will lead to more complex situations because we must allow the situation that most in the council will be one political option and the mayor of another political option. It is therefore necessary to clearly and precisely distinguish the powers and distinguish their relations with each other by respecting the fact that both the mayor and the mayor and the mayor and the mayoral and the mayor will be elected directly, as well as the fact that the council members, or members of the assembly, are directly elected, so that they also represent the will of the citizens who are expressed in the local elections. In particular, it is important for us to clear and precise the powers of the Central State Office, i.e. the central government authorities responsible for overseeing the legality of the work of local self-government units and government powers when intervened, particularly when disbanded by a representative body or when it resolves the mayor because in all proposals this variant is mentioned because it is necessary. We have authority, we are not afraid of authority but we want it to be clearly and precisely defined. We already have different interpretations of certain provisions of the law, we have different practices of the Administrative Court, the Constitutional Court, so we want a legislative proposal that the government will propose in time before local elections, probably first reading in the autumn, edit these relations, specify, install existing administrative practice, existing case-law, the Administrative Court and the case-law of the Constitutional Court. Thus, it is clear to all participants in political life at local level what the frameworks of political action are and what it will mean to act contrary to the law and under what conditions the Government can and when it has to disband the representative body, or to relieve the mayor. The government agrees to move directly, amending the Law on Elections in a way that allows for the direct election of mayors and mayors and municipal mayors. But here we have written four pages on each of the legal proposals, and I wouldn't be going into the details right now, just in principle, against the referendum, against the extra cost of local self-government. We already have often extraordinary elections, it requires the launch of the entire mechanism, from the electoral committees to the municipal election committees, the county election committees, the state election commission, and in the Constitutional Court, it is expensive, it requires a great burden on both the state budget and the local budgets. Of course, because of the cost of cost, we do not intend to restrict the right to achieve the will of the citizens, but we must avoid duplication of the procedure. If it goes to the referendum then it's already a certain statement, so, in a month's time, according to the proposal, it would be either the mayor's election or the council's election, after a month's two-time involvement of citizens, it's absolutely unacceptable for us. I would also like to say a few words to the IDS proposal, indeed it was in one city council that an unpleasant fact that a diplomat is also a councilman and wants or does not want to participate in the councils. We do not enter the right of the elected councilman that during his annual vacation he travels to the country, participates in the work of the representative body but we do not think that because of one individual case he should go to a law change because tomorrow he can appear, I do not know any athlete who is also a councilman and plays for some foreign club or actor who plays in another theater. So we call on the members of the representative body to share responsibility in the work of the representative body, to participate actively because the local self-government is also the right, but elected council representatives have their own obligations and if they cannot carry out them then let them do what morals do. Here, we propose that these legislative proposals be rejected and because the government will fully resolve these issues and amend a whole series of laws concerning the transfer of powers to local self-government, regulate precisely and clearly in a way that develops local self-government, and that the powers of government and state are clearly defined as regards the supervision of labour law, because the Government is responsible for respecting the laws throughout the territory of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-29-0.u10944	Thank you. We're going to a club debate. On behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Club, we have three representatives who need to share the time, Krunoslav Markovanovic, Rade Ivas and Ivan Lučić. He is the first respected representative of Krunoslav Markovnovici.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-29-0.u10945	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, dear colleagues and fellow MPs. In my presentation, I will not discuss whether the most significant amendments to the Law on Local and Regional (regional) Self-Government are constitutionally founded or not, as was the case on committees and on a series of shortcomings observed by committees. To begin with a little of the proposings, the proponent already said in the opening section that a frequent repeat of the election in the election units would change the election of the mayors, mayors and mayors directly. It should be said that the re-election given the total number of units of local and regional self-government, which is somewhere around 570 is still more exceptional than the rule. The fact that it's often two, three municipalities or two, three cities in a row and again a long break, I don't think this vision is going to change. Directly elected mayors, mayors and mayors will often have a majority against them in municipal and city councils, or county assemblies. The result is increased instability, and the proposal suggests a significant increase in the head's authority. Instead of the elected and confirmed chieftain, I use the word that I don't have to list all the time the mayor, mayor, the mayor himself appoints a committee, appoints a secretary and assistant, so people who are absolutely dependent on him, so the possibility of correcting decisions is reduced to a minimum. It is particularly difficult to suggest that leaders replace the assistants they appoint during their absence. If the leader is away for a long time, for example. Because of the disease, the deputy will have all the authority of the leader in the meantime if he is not in the election confirmed by the voters. So we're coming into a strange situation that actually the city, county or municipality is being run by someone who hasn't been in the elections at all. The elected chief, mayor or mayor, either by his own overzealous will or perhaps by express passivity, or by political conflict, may cause the council or the assembly to mistrust. If, and this number is indeed a great councilman, vote of no confidence shall be given to the head according to this proposal, the Government shall call a referendum and after the referendum, it shall be re-election for either the head or the council, or the assembly. And now I'm going to describe one possible variant. In most units, the election for the leader will be two rounds. We've seen this from the polls here, one week last week has published, you see that even the most famous names get something over 20%, so it's very hard for us to expect someone to get over 50%. So, the two-round election. Then we know that the third outing of citizens will be in the election for local committees, so they are very likely, and we have even had two additional elections for representatives of national minorities. Now, if the leader's vote of confidence is followed by a referendum, it's the fifth date. If the referendum confirms the council's expectations again likely to follow, the two-round selection of leaders will again follow. In total, it is 7 voter exits to a statement which can be financially monitored by very few units. A significant voter interest would be diminished, so decisions would be made by a minimum number of voters, which could again generate further instability. I think the proposer assumed that such a law would not repeat the poor functioning of the City of Zagreb's Headship, so the Headship abolished and gave almost all authority to the mayor. It is also problematic that real estate and movables are exclusively managed by the representative body, which would be logical only in small municipalities and cities. Now imagine the situation that, I don't know, the headship of the city of Zagreb sells some old car and should call, uh, the Zagreb City Assembly to decide on it. I'm a bit of a cartoon, but I think we should have the same measure here. What about the MPs? According to this proposal, the parliamentary representative could no longer be in the council or the city or the municipality, either in the headship or anywhere else, which again I think is losing contact with the base. I mean, you should think a little bit about everything, and you should think about this. I personally believe that this, that the proposal of these two laws is certainly the contribution of the legislator to a new law which will specify decentralisation, the definition of the city and the municipalities to a little reminisce of yesterday's issues, of yesterday's laws. First of all, and for the development of new municipalities. We should think about reducing maybe the number of election lists. Again, we can get into a situation where we have 60 lists and more in the city of Zagreb. I won't mention 94, but 60 lists. So it's a little bit of a definition of who can or what are the parties that, this one, have enough members and in one way limit that we don't create a circus because I think a little bit of our Western colleagues are smiling at us. I'm not going to talk, I don't know, about pre-election coalition or whatever, that's all to think about, but maybe another big problem. They're building inspectors. State building inspectors have their hands full. By the time they clear the coast, it'll be a few years, and it'll only be a few years, then maybe it'll be our turn. We know that over the past few years, a number of inspectors have left work at the Ministry. They became state-owned, and I'm saying it was better when they were county because we could have more contact with them and maybe you should consider maybe, I don't know, introducing some level of maybe local inspectors. Because communal monks certainly can't be a substitute. They can deal with it if a little garbage gets out somewhere and something like that, but they don't have any authority while state inspectors, I repeat, descend to our local units we'll be buried with all possible structures of all kinds.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-29-0.u10946	It's seven minutes, it's flowing.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-29-0.u10947	It should, and should specify exactly who might be a councilman, clearly to avoid the problem identified by the IDS. There's another big problem we should talk about. What about the roads? Namely, the roads are divided into Croatian highways, Croatian roads, County roads and Local roads. We have incredibly bad experiences with county roads. I agree, they're, like, showing all the time they don't have any money. Maybe go on a proposal to eliminate County roads, to have three levels of Croatian highways, Croatian roads and local roads with local self-government getting money so far from County roads. Because this, this is an unsustainable condition. This is because of the many shortcomings observed in these laws, the Croatian Democratic Community Club will not support these laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-29-0.u10948	Thank you. Now, Mr. Rade Ivas. Please make sure it's one, six minutes so the third colleague can.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-29-0.u10949	The Honorable Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Secretary of State, has left, is missing, his colleagues and fellow MPs. In its beginnings, the Croatian administration was already faced with special circumstances of fighting for independence, the transition to a multi-party political system, the market economy with a heavy private ownership system and the war in which part of the country was occupied and destroyed. Under such conditions, a Law on local self-government and administration was adopted in 1992 and a new system of local self-government was established. In 1993, the first local elections were held in a new structure. Soon after the end of the war, the need for reform of state and local self-government also arose. The first steps in decentralisation of local self-government were also taken during 2000 and 2001 respectively. They're bringing in a new law on local administration. In local, regional self-government, it's a new electoral law. Today we have two new draft laws before us; the Law on, Proposal for a law on the selection of members of representative bodies, units of local self-government and the Proposal for a law on local and regional, regional self-government. I'll just say a few words about the law, about the bill on selecting members of representative bodies. The basic newspaper in this Bill proposal compared to the current Law on the selection of members of the representative body is that the Proposer proposes the direct election of all authorities in local units, so the municipal chief, mayor, mayor and mayor of the city of Zagreb. The promoter believes that the time has passed since the elections so far has shown the need to adopt a new Law on the selection of members of the representative bodies. In this regard, they were driven not only by the desire for greater stability of local and regional self-government and the effectiveness of the executive authority but also by strong public opinion support. This proposal, as the Proposer says, aims to achieve better and efficiency of representative executive bodies, to enable, to prevent conflict of interest, to avoid possible, to multiply functions in one person. Direct elections for those officials are being held in several European countries; Albania, Bulgaria, Italy, Macedonia, Germany, Romania, Slovakia, Slovenia, Turkey and others. For such election concepts, there is an argument in favour but also arguments that are against it as a source of permanent instability of local authorities, direct conflicts between local leaders and local representative bodies, a request for impeachment and a frequent referendum. Direct elections are easy to introduce, but it is not easy to solve the problem they are opening. Here, it should be warned that the adoption of this model of elections should also be subject to some very important issues, which is the subject of specific organic laws governing the local self-government in the first place, the interrelationship of the representative body, the institution of the executive authority, which then does not result from the representative body, would also draw the mandate directly from election results. Then what is the role of the representative body, in order to form the mayor.../ The speaker is incomprehensible to the team and who would confirm it? How could a direct, elected mayor... /The speaker incomprehensiblely speak/... the mayor may be removed? And so on. I'll also make a few concrete remarks. In this way, Article 3 provides for the start and termination of the term of office of the executive body elected in the direct elections and is indicated to be settled by organic law. Article 4 provides that the re-election of local officials, including the mayor of Zagreb, will be subject to special Law on Local and Regional Self-Government and if the rights and obligations and legal position and other issues are relevant for the establishment of the city of Zagreb are prescribed by special law. The application refers to Article 5 which produces the Institute of Incompatibility in the conduct of certain duties because it is in conflict and should be harmonised. The observations also refer to the proposal for an article which prescribes the way members of the Council and representatives of national minorities in local units, because we are faced with a number of problems that have arisen in the past elections of these national minorities. Similarly, the bill does not properly address the issue of the number of signatories who support the mayor's and mayor's candidacy by identifying the number of members of the representative bodies when this is not settled in the Statute, the issue of electoral silence and financing and election promotions. Finally, in the HDZ, we accept the view of the Government of the Republic of Croatia that several draft draft election laws are being finalised and we believe that the rules whose production will soon be completed will contain improved technical implementing provisions relating to the very implementation of the elections. These will include more comprehensive and qualitative solutions to the essential issues of the electoral system than is contained in this bill. It is clear that this should all be speeded up in order for the new local elections we expect to be held in May under this new law. Here's briefly for these reasons, the HDZ Club will not support this legal proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-29-0.u10950	Thank you very much. Mr. Ivan Vukitch.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-29-0.u10951	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary-General, colleagues and fellow MPs. We have before us a bill on the selection of members of the representative body of the unit of local and regional self-government. I would say another very important law for the lives of all citizens of our beautiful Croatia. The legislator bases his proposal on the direct selection of mayors, mayors, and mayors. I must be honest and say that I personally support such a choice, and it is a pity that the proposings have not made their proposal before regardless of their inconsistencies. But it's a good thing we're discussing him here in this house today. I do not agree with the motion that this law will make it impossible for more capable and willing persons to engage in the political and economic life of local communities. Since the existing law limits it. I don't know what law that makes it impossible to engage in politics and the economy. And the existing law enables that if someone is not a member of the political party to participate in the elections. We cannot make ourselves a court of incompetence simply because it belongs to a political party or to a political option. As I've already said, I'm looking for a direct choice that I believe the government will give to this House for adoption until the next election. The concerns arising from the direct elections should certainly be resolved, primarily on the interrelationships of the representative body and the nobility of the executive authority. Who is it that can make a proposal to relieve the elected official and so on. My personal opinion is to consider a proposal to directly elect the mayor, mayor and mayor as well as their traps in the package. TO meet the basic legal principle that the deputy must be chosen in the same way as the one he replaces. We welcome Vladek from the opinion that the Government is preparing and that at the final stage there are several draft laws and I believe that they will include improved and technical implementation of these laws. This proposal will not encourage the Croatian Democratic Community club, but we are essentially commending the way it should certainly be regarded as a good intention in the new law enforcement law that the Croatian Government will give to this high House for adoption. I hope before the local elections. As regards the proposal for a law of 62 amending and supplementing the law on the selection of members of the representative bodies of the unit of local self-government, the HDZ Club does not support the borderline of this law, in just one of its members whom I personally consider to be a good proposal, and that the government will respect it in the making of the entire bill in the units of local self-government and their elections. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-29-0.u10952	Thank you very much and for saving a little time. Correction of the inaccurate allegations by Ms. Ingrid Antičević Marinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-29-0.u10953	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, I am correcting Mr. Markovanovic's incorrect statement explaining why it is not a good solution in this legislative proposal that excludes the possibility of a parliamentary representative also being a member of the city council. It's the local board of directors. He said literally, that's how you lose the connection, that's how a parliamentary representative loses contact with the base. That's not true. The parliamentary representative does not contact the citizens directly through another representative body, but through direct contact with the citizens, which is also his duty to do when there is no session of the parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-29-0.u10954	Relationships are inconceivable, therefore. We're moving on with the club debate. On behalf of the SDpa Club, Mr. Representative and Vice President Mato Arlović.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-29-0.u10955	Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State of Honor and fellow MPs. First of all, we are maintaining and thanking the colleagues of the CNS PGS for preparing these bill proposals by taking care that they have actually accepted the initiative of the alliance of cities and municipalities that have been drawn up in such proposals of the law at all times. But we also need to draw attention to the fact that, in the meantime, the Union of Cities and municipalities has seen some dilemmas and problems that it has to address certain specific issues of regulation. Which is also suggested that the practical alliance of cities continues to work has developed a new version that they are allegedly working with the government and I could appear in such a far-reaching law in the procedure. Which will be the proposer of the government. However, regardless of all of this, the SDP's Club supports these bill proposals, and feels that they need to be released into the process and read. Why because the system of local self-government is a very serious glomasis. It has serious causes affecting the achievement of all political, economic legal social cultular, and other relations between people in the country. And it is quite certain that the debate on this system and how it is desirable and necessary and as much as possible to discuss it, we will hope that we will develop possible solutions that are of interest to all of us. Despite our support for the proposals of these laws, to go into the procedure of course we have not only observations but perhaps our own dilemmas that we want to expose and warn to them and to recommend to the Proposer that they be taken care of, when making a final draft of the law and that he himself might consider them. First and most certainly important is the question of how the representative bodies of the executive bodies of our municipalities of cities and units of regional self-government are selected. But for us, it's far more important to actually question the relationship between the units of local self-government. It seems that this bill unfortunately did not cover or elaborate even though the constitution in that section opened up space. I would like to remind you that the Constitution has counted possible tasks carried out by units of local self-government tasks carried out by units of regional self-government. But he also said that the units of local self-government of regional self-government have the right, within the framework of their laws, to regulate their internal structure and their bodies independently and to adapt them to local needs and possibilities. And that particular question is one of the questions that has not been fixed and that opens up a whole series of dilemmas and problems. Whether Croatia can, given the number of inhabitants per individual units of local self-government, by their spatial expansion, then, spread. Then questions of natural potential, economic integration, transport connections, so if you want cultural not only cultural development but also educational status of citizens and so on. Could it be practical how this bill of ours and this bill of law to be more precise, along with the current law offered a monotype. I would like to remind myself that this is best reflected in Article 35, which lists the representative body as practically carrying out the same tasks regardless of whether it is a representative body of a municipality or a city or a county. The other problem that follows in itself is the fact that despite the possibilities that the Constitution allows us to close our eyes to the problems that objectively exist. It's not the same possibility and not just the possibility and the need for growth, so if you want to achieve the right to local self-government in big cities, middle towns, and if you want small units of local self-government not only up to 3,000 but also below the 3,000 inhabitants that we and in the system have. It is therefore obvious to consider, in fact, the second provision of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia which in this respect opens up opportunities for other forms of local self-government to be introduced other than the city and the municipality, and in this respect it is likely to consider whether to actually open a space for regulation of the position of so-called. large cities, and then within the system they not only introduce local self-government but actually open space to turn the city's neighborhoods into forms of city municipalities that they might and should have... Let us not forget that the local self-government in the city districts that takes place in our big cities, especially in the capital Zagreb, is often including several tens of thousands of people with huge potential, and that it is practically not resolved. This is our first observation, and we believe that this issue should be seriously considered when it is already being adopted, because it is being addressed by the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government, which is the question of the parent law on the issue. Our second principle, which is what the SDP really stands for. The SDP advocates not for the monotypic form of units of local self-government but for the political form of the unit of local self-government and that, in fact, according to the material possibilities... of historical, economical, if you want the demographic capabilities of the unit office of local self-government and that in this respect, account is taken. Our second observation is in principle that it is possible to accept and consider the idea of replacing the parliamentary system in the selection of representatives, or rather the holder of the executive authority than the one we now have with the resident system, but cannot leave the same relationship between the representative body and the executive body that now exists in the law. In such a situation, the mayor or mayor of the municipality's position is very different from the representative council and representative council compared to him. It's impossible to imagine actually some things that aren't worked out, they have to be done, worked out and even set differently. The example works quite clearly that the choice of mayors, mayors and executive authorities directly which is in direct contact... is simpler, more democratic, more operational and more efficient power practically enables, personalizes the responsibility of mayors and mayors of the municipality etc. All this is true, but on the other hand it also opens up other problems and issues that can be brought and to which it should be taken into account. First, it is a question that a representative body can often enter conflict with the executive body on jurisdiction and on the issue of realising a policy regarding the exercise of the right to local self-government. Secondly, it is actually a system that allows for an autocratic form of government, therefore a more democratic way of choosing, but an autocratic way of achieving the government itself especially on our occasions, and it should be taken into account that it is practically necessary to see in the representative body, hence the municipal council or the city council to pre-warning, control and oversee it on behalf of the citizens. It's a question that hasn't actually been completed. Of course, there is also a question of unwanted forms of personalization of the executive authority and policies that may occur, which are related to a whole series of practical closures in a narrow circle, so if you want the oligarchical form of rule that unfortunately this law with such a bill, solutions about the assistants you would appoint or set yourself a elected mayor and chief actually brings. It's simply impossible for a simple reason because some of the powers are given. I will give the illustrations in order to state, it is impossible to count all individual remarks, but illustrations, for example, are carried out by the mayor of the municipality in relation to the local self-government, for example, by the municipal chief. I can understand that he's doing some kind of surveillance, etc. but how exactly the legality of work when it comes to legality is a state matter, state bodies, so state administration. It is obvious, therefore, that this is a matter of taking into account. If, in addition, his assistants, whom I have appointed, can replace him in the event of prevention or indifference, and they do not have the legitimacy or legality of the electoral body whom they have chosen, that someone has chosen him, then in fact a specific form of possible alienation is asked, practically, by the executive authority of the right to local self-government, which they have at the very end of the line of citizens, and not by the executive authority. In this respect, it should certainly be taken into account that this issue should be resolved in principle, so as to resolve the relationship between the mayor and his team of the executive authority and the representative body in relation to jurisdiction and to each other in relation to them at a horizontal level, but also in relation to senior authorities and state authorities. For example, let us not forget that, for example, the solution offered in Article 82 under which the executive authority, or the Government of the Republic of Croatia, can be resolved by the mayor, etc. if it frequently violates the law and so on, that this is foreseen as a solution and it is open to the possibility to conduct a dispute in the Administrative Court and the decision of the Administrative Court is final. And what about the right, constitutional right to local self-government, whether citizens can participate in this regard and where they are in relation to their representative body. So it's completely dropped, it's number one. And number two, but in Article 83, that question has not been touched at all, because when it comes to the issue, when the government disbands the representative body and decides to call extraordinary elections. So if you get rid of the mayor and the mayor that's not the reason for disbanding the representative body and calling the extraordinary elections, now it's actually a question of what's going on. Whether elections will be called and who will call the mayor's election and who will ultimately be responsible not only for the violation of formal legality but for the actual legality and material consequences of the representative body and holders of rights to local self-government, i.e. citizens. So that's a question that is also in principle, we think that we should ask a different question and solve it differently. Of course, in this respect it is particularly a question of the so-called ...a unit of local self-government within the semi-type form of organization and arrangement of internal relations. We must make sure that equal units of local self-government not only have equal powers and equal opportunities but also equal legal opportunities in the exercise of rights and or the provision of space for the right to local self-government offered to their citizens, and in this respect it is quite certain that we can accept the concept of direct choice of mayor and mayor, but it is not logical to say the mayor of a municipality that has up to 3,000 inhabitants must now have a complete team that holds executive power. There still needs to open the space that in fact individual jobs are done with such a municipal council, not having a special team. A combination should be made, for example, in smaller municipalities in Canada, etc. In addition, we have, of course, certain individual remarks that practically confirm our dilemmas and doubts regarding concrete solutions and which are actually looking for just such questions that they should be cleared up until the second reading of the law, i.e. until the final draft of the law. We, I'll just bring up some questions. For example, let us consider the relationship between Articles 19 and 20. Here it is well-numbered which work of the local self-government unit is accomplished and which units of regional self-government. Here, however, each other is now left with a question. And are such jobs and how large cities do they accomplish? We say, they won't have that option. And I'm sorry, which means spatial planning, or I don't know, urban planning of a regional self-government unit that will bypass the seat of Split-Dalmatia, like the City of Split. It's simply an inevitable question. Therefore, there is also a need to establish relationships between relationships and consider the possibility that a new category of major cities should be introduced in the local self-government system. We must also say that we find an interesting solution, but it is questionable from the aspect of the concept. If the concept of a directly elected mayor is accepted who is directly responsible to the electoral body with his team, etc., then let's say in Article 35, the specific question is how to regulate the question of impeachment? In fact, it's quite difficult, it doesn't work because it recalls whoever chooses, or chooses, and recalls the same body. So the citizens would have to, then we should open up the space to do it. The second question is, this attempt, which was later elaborated in Article 47 as a matter of debate and a vote of mistrust, but the third question is whether the representative body is not there. It discusses mistrust, but cannot recall the elected mayor directly. It can only be done by the one who chose him in an extraordinary election. The second question is whether it is necessary to open the possibility of a representative body, not to call off, but to suspend the mandate under the law, the mayor when the representative body finds it, as it did when the government controls the legality, it also determines the frequent violation of the law. Now, the question is whether, for example, when the mayor significantly deviates from the implementation of the budget, etc., he who carries a representative body or the realization of a spatial plan, urban plan or schooling, etc., can then and what powers should be given under the law to a representative body not only as an authority but also as a duty to protect the right of local self-government that belongs to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. In this context, it is clear that some of the solutions listed in Article 35(1) in points 1 to 9 are practically mutually exclusive. For example, it is totally conceptually unacceptable for real estate, real estate and movable property owned by a local self-government unit to have a representative body, if it is a direct choice of mayors, etc., even in these relations when the representative body chooses its own executive authority, executive power, and this should be asked a question. But here's a good actually hidden idea. There's something else to ask. Whether the legislative role of the representative body should be protected, and this is the question of how the representative body should, through the adoption of its acts, lay down the conditions and criteria for the availability and use and management of real estate and movables in its territory and when, and in what conditions, which is the upper, or lower limit when a possible representative body must give its consent or prior opinion that the executive body may carry out that job. Therefore, it is only one example that points to the fact that these issues should actually be settled and, of course, the relationship between the representative body and the executive body should be set. About the appointment of one or more assistants it is totally unacceptable and it is quite clear that if the mayor is already trying to create not only the mayor but the collective practical body then he should be allowed as the first among the equals to have some joint team going to the elections, but then we are actually talking something similar to that of some Western, European and Western countries where the advice is borne by executive authority, and the first among them is the President of the Council at the same time and the Mayor. In fact, they are directly chosen and then fit and have, of course, original powers in accordance with the law. We find it totally unacceptable to have a concept that would allow the three-quarters majority to vote for mistrust. It is not really a debate on the non-confidential authority, i.e. the mayor and the mayor, but a debate on the trust of the representative body. If we sign that a three-quarter majority representative body should vote mistrust because it has established some of the violations of legality, i.e. not the enforcement of decisions by a representative body or the will of the electoral body itself, or the rightholder of local self-government of citizens. And in that respect, it's number one. Number two. By analogy, compared to our constitutional solutions, we must remember that with us the government falls if the representative body, or the Parliament votes to the supra-almost majority before all MPs of mistrust. Let us also not forget that we are initiating a two-thirds majority procedure for the resolution of the President of the State, and that the judges of the Constitutional Court make a two-thirds decision to suspend the term of office if they find that they have violated the Constitution. Thus, in such a situation, it is fully evident that such a solution is inconclusive. In particular, we should make sure that some of the powers given to the representative bodies of the local self-government units are unacceptable. For example, in Article 64(2), paragraph 5, an infringement may be prescribed. It still couldn't work. It can bring some other questions under the law. Of course, in Article 80, which means permanent, it is left without a minimum number of councilmen. That should be resolved. In Article 92 it is necessary to correct the nomotechnically it would not be possible to apply since 1 April 2004 because that deadline has passed. And Article 97, which is a particular issue, in fact, the entry and application since the start of the application of this law, how to resolve it. And very briefly, because there's just no time. There's not enough time for these laws, these 20 minutes around the Bill of Elections in representative bodies. You know, it's one thing to accept, first principle question. How is it that we advocate that citizens can directly choose executive power, which we support. The mayor, the mayor, etc., and at the same time we do not offer a model of how the right to local self-government of citizens opens up as much space as possible to directly achieve it. Well, for example, they choose councillors, as many councilors directly through, or rather, the SDP offers a model to consider the possibility, until the second reading, to actually introduce a mixed system in elections and councilors, and not only to actually run a proportional system where the parties are fully declared here, etc., and they represent actually policyholders. I think that should be taken into account, because this is a solution that clearly offers the right advantages, etc. The second question that is equally important is the question that we should ask and even our county. No, for example, around the candidate list, I'm running out of time. Thank you very much. I'm running out of time. I'm gonna have to apply for a little more debate on behalf of you personally. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-29-0.u10956	Thank you very much. I'm going to break the Rules of Procedure a little bit, so I'm going to say that I could be a quality debate, and I'm going to say it out loud. Well, here's my, uh, friendly suggestion from my colleague, Mati Arlovic, to continue this high-quality, but loudly that he's never been used to it before. HNS and PGS club. In the name of the club, Mr. Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-29-0.u10957	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. I, too, am extremely pleased that we are discussing the topic of local and regional self-government again in the House, for the third time in just a few months, this topic is ahead of us. I think it's extremely good, important and significant. Especially since in municipalities, cities and counties every day decisions are made that are the most direct, most directly affect what citizens can see, what they use and what problems they have on a daily basis, and according to my assessment in this year, around 18 billion kunas will be all budgets combined. So, the decisions we make daily are the municipal chiefs, mayors and mayors, chieftains and representative bodies most directly affecting the quality of life and standards in the local community. Someone once said that we have time to pass these laws, namely at the Croatian People's Party Club and the Primorian Mountain Alliance, we believe that it would be extremely high quality, good and useful for the electoral procedure for the elections that will take place in May next year at least a year before these elections, because we regulate only a small part of the jurisdiction of local self-government and regional authorities, and according to our proposal up to 1. The following year should be amended or updated even if I have counted well 37 laws that regulate, determine or confer certain powers on municipalities, cities and counties. In his introduction, Col. Shantic said that he discussed the Parliament in the last term on April 3rd of last year, completed the first reading, and then practically all the club representatives who were working at the Assembly at the time except for IDS, which I saw from the phonogram supported the project but with a number of proposals and remarks that we tried to install in this text that came before you. Last April 26th, we organised an action that joined or participated in 50 thousand and 200 full-time citizens of the Republic of Croatia with a referendum on what they thought about the proposal of non-compared elections and 95.4% of those involved in the action supported this way of selecting leaders. And in 2001, before the elections, we also made these proposals, so it is an old idea and a new attempt to introduce direct elections through legislation in Croatia and what is particularly important and what I believe the government will remain in its part of the programme, namely, in that programme that Prime Minister Sanader presented to the Parliament on December 23rd, saying that a system of direct elections will be introduced in municipalities, cities and counties. Now there was a question when, and a statement back a month ago is visible that when May is next year, and then the second question is how. Three basic differences between what we are proposing, which I have had the opportunity to hear today, so far, and from public statements and Presidents of Parliament Shakespeare and Prime Minister Sanader. The concept of whether only the mayor's election so first man or with and with his deputy was present for a long time. The second dilemma of impeachment in the representative body or referendum, in the first variant of reading and talking, we offered recalls to the representative body but it was warned that we must be consistent with the democratic way of choosing and then to allow citizens who chose to have the right to withdraw. Today, the referendum form is being challenged solely because of the high price, and I will say something later. And the third dilemma is the relationship between the leader and the representative body and there are two extremes present. We're going to get strong local sheriffs, although I don't like this term and it's not good to use it, or it's going to be another extreme for elected leaders to be prisoners of co-habitation with representative bodies where their political option or they won't have a majority. These are assumptions and could be a dilemma on condition that we do not want to admit to ourselves that, according to the current electoral model, we now have a cohabitation in at least 30% of locals, municipalities, cities and counties, and this problem of cohabitation is solved in the most dirty way by various purchases from budgets to other businesses. So we have a problem today, we don't want to call it such a name, we don't want to admit that it exists, because where one council seat or voice decides to one or the other side it's a classic example of cohabitation that we don't want to call and there is indeed a fear of resistance because this model really leads to parties losing their ability to influence directly elected leaders, and I understand that fear, but I don't accept it as an excuse that this model could declare that Croatian citizens and the democratic public are not mature or ready to accept the responsibility of direct elections. As far as the government's testimony on our proposal is concerned, I would only single out six of them as the most important. The first finding is that there are many arguments in favor and against such a model and that is true and we argue that there are more arguments for direct choice than against. The second observation by the Government is that it is an organic law that we are aware of and that it is therefore necessary to establish the relations between the representative body and the executive authorities. We have given and offered one model and if the government will fix and even clearer provisions we have nothing against it. The third remark of the Government was that this Law should not regulate the issue of elections in the City of Zagreb because there is a special Law on the City of Zagreb, when it comes to the electoral model, we believe that this Law can be regulated but if we decide that the special Law for the City of Zagreb and in the electoral model we have nothing to do with just seeing why the whole of Croatia except Zagreb would regulate the issue of elections in one Law and then only for the City of Zagreb in the other. The fourth Government's objection referred to the observer's proposal in the extraordinary elections for national minorities, and they are right here, namely, the powers and mode of work of observers, except in the extraordinary elections, should be transferred to regular jurisdiction and we accept that remark as a whole. The fifth government's objection was that this law should not regulate the issue of how members of the Council and representatives of national minorities in local self-government, so it is the application of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities, we do not see any reason why a special Law on Elections of Councils or Representatives of National Minorities should be passed and that we can regulate that by this law. The sixth remark was on the Constitutional Court's authority to decide not only in the selection of representative bodies but also in the holder of the executive authority, and that remark is acceptable as a whole. The final remarks of the Government also referred to a term or a proposed solution to the entry into force of this Act, given the time when we prepared it without knowing the time and time of elections, we offered one formulation which can be precisely disputed and therefore we offer a formulation that these election laws apply in the first subsequent regular elections for municipalities, cities and counties. This is about these remarks and the views of the Government, which in its statement gives in fact the greatest or most clear message that it does not accept our proposal but that it is preparing a series of laws that will be better regulated, that is, a key observation. As for the Law on Regional and Local Self-Government, three important remarks. I have already said that this year I estimate that in municipalities, cities and counties there will be around 18 billion kunas of budget funds. Discussing these laws often resented them, and today I have had the opportunity to hear that these laws do not offer a further process of decentralisation, and that they have actually remained at the level of decentralisation from the existing legislative solution. That's right. and this law is not a law that extends the competences of municipalities, cities and counties, because these powers are established in specific laws. So, for example, how much of the county's powers will be laid down by the Health Protection Act. For example, this year, according to the government's decision in health care, 398 million kuna was decentralised the other day in the National Journal, so how to dispose of that money, matter is the Health Protection Act. So, for example, from that decision that was published on April 14th this year in the National Journal, just one detail. Countys make their own decisions to allocate funds between health institutions. So then inside the health care facility by purpose and says this. The County, i.e. the City of Zagreb, has established a list of priorities referred to in paragraph 1 of this point, and they agree with the Ministry of Health and Social Care, so when they get the consent, they go to the representative body to be able to make the decision. So at this point, this Health Protection Act tells the county and the city of Zagreb that they have something, but only if they get the previous consent of the Ministry of Health. And with these laws on local and regional self-government has nothing to do with it. The primary school law confers jurisdiction on cities that take over and the Law on the financing of local self-government, under which cities, under which conditions can take care of primary and secondary schools, or county. Well, for example, for primary schools, decentralised functions in this year are 730 million kuna. For high school, 380 million kuna. For social care 88 million. To protect against fires 237 million. For homes for older and powerless persons 174 million kunas. and each of these laws on top of that, the Law on the Community Economy, the Law on Waste, the Law on Spatial Planning, the Law on Sports, the Law on Culture, the Law on Roads, and so 37 times the law clears and says, why the municipality is competent, for which the city, for which the county, and these same laws prescribe whether it is the jurisdiction of the headship or representative body. And because of this, if we want to continue decentralisation before the regular local elections in 2005, we need to change all these laws, coordinate each other, so that they are not contradictory so that we can talk about the new composition of municipal and city councils and county assemblies starting with new expanded decentralisation. The government has also made several important remarks or reflections on this proposal, so they resent the fact that the bill abolishes the current institutions of single administrative departments in municipalities and cities. Right, because we believe that the issue of internal structure and the work of services in municipalities, cities and counties is a matter of the statutes, and not of the law, which is why we are also talking about local self-government, not considering it necessary by law to prescribe even the titles that will be organised, what will be called jobs, so that it must be a very unique administrative department. But that doesn't mean that we're introducing an obligation to be instead of one unique five special administrative departments or bodies. We allow such things to be regulated exclusively by the statutes of municipalities, cities and counties. Another serious observation was that we did not state in the explanation whether the implementation of this law would require more funding in the budgets of municipalities, cities and counties or the state budget. We're not listed because we don't think we're going to need any new funds, because this law didn't extend a part of the business, jurisdiction. And the question of new funding budgets I said was the matter of these parent laws. It is our responsibility to introduce new financial commitments and to say again in Articles 19, 44 and 49. Article 99 is, Article 19 has precisely taken over existing powers which are defined by the Constitution and do not need new funds. Article 44 is about the offices of the mayor and the mayor who now exists, and the administrative departments in Article 49 that exist now, but we only gave them different competences and structure. As regards ownership, where we have proposed that the representative body have jurisdiction, opponents of this idea call for the Property Act, and the Property Act in Article 35(1) states that this is within the jurisdiction of the representative body unless the special law otherwise provides. And by special law, we propose that it be in the jurisdiction of the representative body. Now, whether the town hall sells old cars or tens of thousands of acres of land, that's another thing and whether it's the authority of a representative body or a leader, it's also a matter of political debate. We have even received comments from Articles 71 and 75 that they are not good, and these are articles prescribed and existing laws. Therefore, criticism of existing legislative solutions, which is why I will not specifically explain and interpret them, because I believe that the government's proposal will also regulate existing solutions differently. And just one or two more details in the level of decentralisation and authority. A decision regulating the rights and obligations of the county in the social sphere for this year says so. It is about helping citizens for counties, i.e. the city of Zagreb provides funds to help settle housing costs for wood-heating users. The history of this story is long, I leave out history and it goes on. The criteria for aid expenditure for the settlement of housing costs for wood-heating users is the number of users planned for 2003. So the same number is true this year. In the following table, it is prescribed that it is in Croatia, 57 thousand 173 users. And now it goes on, the measure of 880 kuna per user to help settle housing costs for wood users, and when you multiply 57 thousand 173 users by 880 kuna per user you get 50 million 312 thousand kuna, and so for each county the amount is calculated. So nothing is decided by the county and the city of Zagreb, but the number of users prescribed with 880 kunas has their own size. We're afraid of a lot of choices by the new model. First, local self-government sources for local self-government can be at the same time as for locals. The additional elections for minority self-government go, only minority members come out, not all voters. If we're afraid of extraordinary choices, let's calculate the costs we've had in three years. We have proposed solutions that prevents the accumulation of functions so that someone can be a parliamentary representative, mayor and preferably even a member of the headship in a municipality, because we think that's the way it should be. And why is there no headship? Not because of the city of Zagreb and politics, but because last year's biggest remark was next. If you're proposing a direct selection of leaders then such a model and system doesn't know the headships and they can't be in the law. That's true, and that's why there's no more headship. And the proposal that was made here yesterday, big, medium and small towns. Right, and the current laws in different areas have already classified the powers of small and large and medium towns, but this idea to introduce a category of large, small and medium towns or someone called it yesterday the cities of the first, second and third order is to consider and accept in the second reading if you allow us to repeat it in the second reading or accept that we read this law the second time in about two months. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-29-0.u10958	Thank you very much. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day The Rules of Procedure expires at 11.28 p.m. for the application of MPs. Now on behalf of the HSP Club, Mr. Representative Pejo Trčević. And as I can see here Mr. Ante Djapic. Well, here you go, who will!
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-29-0.u10959	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. Here, I'm sorry that Mr. Secretary of State has just left the Assembly session and I just had something quality and smart to say about the Law on Local Self-Government, but I hope he hears it anyway. The Law on Local and Regional Regional Self-Government was passed in April 2001 by which local self-government was established today. There are arguments that the applicable law has not fully resolved the structure and functioning of the local and regional self-government and the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Party of Rights holds that it is necessary if it does not adopt a new law then it is certainly necessary to harmonise and supplement the existing law. The proposed new law of the HNS and PGS Club in the first place refers to the direct selection of the head of local self-government, i.e. The mayor, the mayor and the mayor. Justifying all of this with the reason for the frequent repeat of the elections and the government crisis in a large number of units of local and regional self-government, but after my presentation, my President Djapic will say something more. In Croatia, we claim that this is neither the main nor the only reason for the crisis of local self-government units, and in principle we are not against the direct selection of mayors and mayors and mayors, but to regulate the Law on Elections and Authorities of Local Self-Government, and in order to be of quality, we propose to amend this law before the adoption of this law and the Law on political parties that regulate the rights of political parties and who have the right to exercise their mandates in elections and in party lists. In this way, they would prevent me from calling it tiny wires politically to create a local policy and undermine them with their own personal petty interests. The law should prevent the possibility of any political trade. In the HSP, we believe that this is the main reason for the instability and quality of the functioning of representative bodies and therefore the executive bodies of local self-government. The legislator believes that better functioning of local and regional self-government will be achieved through the direct election of the heads of municipalities, cities and counties and the head of the executive authority in local and regional self-government units, as these leaders will have their legitimacy from the direct will of voters rather than from the will of political parties. And it also proposes that the parties propose their candidate as leader without collecting signatures and the rest here with the proposed number of voter signatures. Therefore, the bill should allow a larger circle of capable people to engage in the political life of local communities, which in itself is contrary. This bill is basically the same as existing because it remained the same way of forming, way of working the body of local self-government, and supervision of acts brought by bodies in local self-government. But by this law, the representative body, this bill completely marginalises the representative body and instead of being in some way a legislative body in local self-government becomes this bill in some way an advisory body to the executive authority, which is certainly inadmissible both in our opinion and unconstitutional. This proposal for a law remains the same Article 34 on the establishment and operation of a representative body which says that the representative body has a president, two vice-presidents and the president is obliged to convene a meeting of the representative body at the reasoned request of 1/3 members within 15 days of receipt of the request. If the president does not convene the session within the mentioned deadline, the meeting will be convened by law by the municipal chief or mayor within 15 days. And that's where it all ends. The law does not regulate what if the Chief or Mayor does not call a meeting within the prescribed further time limit that is the consequence, whether in this case the Government is disbanding the representative body of local self-government or a group of council members can call and hold a session themselves. This is neither the new bill nor the existing legislation, so there is a great possibility of manipulation in such a way that all of this is dealt with in a court case which is certainly inadmissible. We have a living example here in the town of Petrinja and this problem has not been solved for eight months because the ministry is calling for judicial practice and instead of allowing the law enforcement, the ministry has pressured the business bank to block the city's account and thus enforce a violent shift of legally elected authorities in the elections and is now in power by the ministry's opinion that the party has not passed the electoral threshold in the past elections, which is certainly inadmissible. This has actually all happened because of the lack of meaning and uncertainty of the existing law. As for executives in local self-government, the bill sets out in the municipalities of the mayors, and in the mayoral districts, who by their own act appoint their own assistants. The proposed law provides for the abolition of municipal and city heads as executive authorities in local self-government and would instead appoint the mayor of his office, who has his secretary and members from the public competition. From all of this, it is evident that this law actually proposes centralization of local authorities, not decentralisation, which we all like to boast about. This law would actually make it impossible for local self-government to function. The Croatian Party Club of Rights can commend the applicant's efforts.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-29-0.u10960	Just a minute. Here, they're leaving our meeting with the students of the Vinkovac Economic and Trade School, so at least let's welcome them on their way out. Thank you. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-29-0.u10961	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The Croatian party club can praise the efforts of the legislator of this bill but we believe that it is not good enough and that it will not solve the problems of local self-government and therefore the Croatian Party cannot support this and this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-29-0.u10962	Thank you very much. Mr. Ante Djapic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-29-0.u10963	Mr. Vice President, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. As Mr. Trčević said on behalf of the Club, our Club believes that the way to choose the headship of municipalities, cities and counties is not the most important problem or not the fundamental problem of the operation of local administration and self-government in Croatia. In fact, to enter the matter of local self-government requires a complete reform of that system and, if the Croatian society is ready to do so, we welcome it and do not run away as a party to contribute to this initiative. However, we would like to remind ourselves that 10, practically 11 years, the current system of local administrations and self-government, the way of choice, the way of formation, the financing with the changes that have been made during these 11 years, but mostly this is a model that has in some way come into life in Croatian society and has shown its good and bad sides. There's a lot of good news, there's some bad ones. And it seems to us that the initiative given by HNS colleagues went to the top of it to point to one problem, which is therefore the stability of local self-government and how to prevent the frequent problems shown in individual units of local administration. However, we also point out that the way the mayor or mayor or the mayor is elected is not what can change the way it is proposed. destabilising authorities in certain units of local administration and self-government. On the other hand, it is important to stress that the model proposed and, as he said in his presentation, I think the representative of the SDP of fellow Arlović, that this material, part of the material containing opinions and views, alliances, cities in the Republic of Croatia, from which it is apparent that it was written by the mayors, or by the note of the executive authority in the units of local administration, self-government, who of course led their position in making such an attitude or proposal. It is true that he said just before that his colleague Trčević was practically marinating the role of the city councils of the County Assembly in this Bill proposal, and we would like to warn that once again. This proposal, which is given to us and to which we are discussing, and it is good that we are discussing generally because, therefore, the state of the local administration and self-government introduces the small door, and the advantage that leads to the small door, the office system of the small office system, so let us call it so in what is practically untouchable to be mayors and mayors, which is therefore for opening... to discuss whether we want one such model, such a system. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Because if we want to introduce such a form of government in Croatia, which is the same legitimate, then it should first start from the state level. Yes, if we go to the office system then we should choose in Croatia directly then the Prime Minister and then that model should be repainted and realised by the units of local administration, self-government, in this way we would have a double model. One in which we would have a paramental democracy in which parliament would practically confirm the Prime Minister and the Government and have on the units of the local administration, self-government a completely opposite model, and there should be a possible opening of the possibility of a selection model on... A level and then, of course, on a local level. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] On the other hand, it is a matter of compliance with the Constitution of Article 132 which states that the right to self-government is exercised through local, or regional representative bodies, which are composed of members elected in free and secret elections on the basis of direct, equal and general voting rights. Therefore, the question and the selection of members of the city councils and the county councils is raised again, so that, according to this model proposed today, the selection of members of the council and the assembly should also be made by direct selection or reach for some mixed electoral system. Therefore, the idea itself to choose exclusively the mayor and mayors directly through the open of course again... of which, when the existence of the headship is yes, as we have heard from the promoter that it would practically no longer be headship but on the other hand, the question is that it is possible for the co-habitation to act on the part of one party or an independent candidate to be elected mayor and on the other hand there is no majority in the city council. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Then how can you possibly, I don't, no, it's hard to imagine how it can function realistically and objectively. That... the budget, I don't know, the spatial plans and everything else that is already under the law falls within the domain of city councils and county assemblies. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] On the other hand, the implementation of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities, Article 22. The constitutional law states that representatives of national minorities must be represented in a certain percentage by the executive authority. In order to achieve this, if the mayor or mayor determines his own team, which he would have to be entitled to when directly elected, in which way the representatives and representatives of minorities in such an executive authority will be represented in that case. Therefore, we advocate unity in the principles of the electoral system. And in this direction if this is an initiative that opens up a general debate on the electoral system in Croatia, it is as such absolutely welcome and I think there is a lot of useful and all of it to get away with. However, resolving a partial problem that speaks only of the way of choice and the accompanying system of elections, mayors and mayors, in our opinion, is not satisfactory and especially what we hold, once again stressing that this is difficult to lead to decentralisation, exactly the other way around. It would be the centralisation of power in the hands of certain local officials, therefore, mayor or mayor. And for that reason, it would be good for the second reading of all these remarks that have been made that the Proposer appreciates it. But we believe that the government that we have also heard is planning to introduce, propose a direct choice of mayors and mayors to think carefully about the fact that it is very difficult these 10 years and has been hard to build up a system and now go into it without predicting and simulating all possible problems that can appear that can practically make a counterproductive effect of what it wants to do. So what we want to do, therefore, is make it more efficient for the local administration, for self-government, to be as few blockades as possible, for the work of the authorities, for these units. But in this way, as proposed by this bill without clear definitions and without what the Government intends to do, it is difficult to achieve that effect and to make it better and better than what we have today. Because, apparently, there have been problems in many situations between local administration and self-government units, either the transition to individual councillors from one side to the other, however, these are the problems of party relations. So that's the problem, as I would say, creating a political culture and climate where it wouldn't happen. And I don't think the direct election of mayors and mayors will solve this problem that way. It may even be in some elements even more pronounced in the case of so-called. the cohabitation of what my colleague Lesar was saying. Finally, cohabitation is a normal phenomenon everywhere in the world, so there's no reason not to have it as such, so it doesn't work. But taking it as the only reason why it would go to the mayor's direct selection and the mayor seems insufficient to us. We are primarily for direct selection, but too many open issues that do not regulate the quality of functioning to be better than it is today. What we have today can be evaluated either one way or another, but in any case, I would say sometimes it's better to fix something this difficult than to start a whole new one, quite new because we've only been building a system of local administrations and self-government for ten years, and it's a big question if with one experiment, we're going to fix it. But we'll wait for government proposals and I'd say a complete strategy. So it's a whole series of laws that have to be... , the 40th law somewhere we've declared that we should change it to comply with the direct choice of mayors and mayors, and in particular I'm going back to the basic thing, of course we're introducing so-called. A small office system on local administration and self-government units. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Then there is no reason for this electoral model and this system to finally not then, not talk about it openly and clearly and at national level in such a way as to recommending a referendum or with two-thirds of the council that the legality or legitimacy of mayors and mayors can be challenged later on in the courts but not disputed. It's a little overcomplicated and it's said I'd actually be able to be a big, big, big possibility again of problems that we can only predict what would happen. What we have now is something we know about positions and how things can work. Perhaps, in that direction, you should think about reading the second reading of this bill or possibly the government strategy or the government package when it proposes it. All for all of the above reasons, we will be restrained about such a bill as you proposed today, but we welcome the initiative to discuss the reform of the local administration and self-government in the Croatian Parliament should be discussed often and much. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-29-0.u10964	Thank you very much, uh, before continuing the debate by the clubs, a representative of the promoter, Mr. MP Nikola Ivanis, appeared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-29-0.u10965	Dear Mr. Vice President, distinguished representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. On behalf of the promoter, I would like to take part in a debate with several views and comments stemming from this ongoing debate. As promoters, we are particularly pleased with the fact that this topic is being debated today, as in the Croatian public, and it is being debated both seriously and responsibly. But we'd like to, uh, figure out some things and maybe in this way, uh, do that debate further, uh, more concretely. First of all, I would like to say that we Parliamentarians should think a little bit about one thing that has happened in these benches and in these spaces for the past month very often, perhaps most often, and that is the use of a phrase that when the time comes, it will be given to a particular problem a whole solution. Whether it is issues from the defence sector, whether it is issues such as the bankruptcy law yesterday, whether it is local self-government and local self-government elections today, not having at the right moment and at the right time the relevant material, the appropriate position and comment of the Government, we accept the conclusion that the Government will arrange it when the time is in full. What would that, uh, mean in this case? In this case, it would mean that the government will arrange local self-government as clearly stated today. That he will conduct decentralisation as the State Secretary today said and that he will implement the necessary reconstruction of local and regional and regional self-government. Gentlemen, this isn't a year's work. Whoever in these benches is seriously involved in the work knows that this job is for at least one full term, and in a year or less than a year, because that would mean that it's a job for the next 7, 8 months, that would mean that it's not going to be done that way. In the end, we were not once aware of governments independently. I've been in this House since 1995. Governments often used this formulation and often, uh, did not carry out what they had undertaken in such a way. And today we are discussing a subject which is essentially in the Croatian political public, in the Croatian general public opinion there is an absolute consensus. I would like to say that, regardless of this consensus, we are today constantly asking for the principle of support of this public attitude that wants a direct selection of leaders, mayors, mayors and mayors and who wants these people's legitimacy in conduct and what they are doing to result from their immediate election. We keep saying that we understand this principle of attitude, that we support it, and then the famous thing goes, I will now say Croatian, but as I guess it was once Croatian silence or I don't know what. But that, too, but it will probably result in us, uh, and the next local elections if we do this in fact being held in the old way, and once again we will fail the expectations of the political public, and then we will be surprised that from election to election a growing number of citizens, or an ever smaller percentage of our voters, will go to the polls. Less and fewer are coming out because they are thus demonstrating their resistance to local or state-run partytocracy. When it comes to local levels, municipalities, cities or counties,... We're talking, we're afraid that someone who's been elected directly, someone who's won the legitimacy of the direct elections will rule authoritarianly. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] So today there are authoritarian groups of three to five who represent a party that, uh, holds power. Or there are 3 to 5 people who represent some coalitions in local self-government units. Our citizens, regardless of party commitment to the right, the centre, the left, have rejected the way in the last 5, 6 or 7 years. On behalf of the promoter, I appeal that we today say to this House that we absolutely as a Parliament take responsibility to agree on legal, legislative, political and all other conditions in the next elections in this country and to respect the will of most voters, to respect the will of the people and to go directly to the elections. Well, we can't tell people we won't choose directly this time because our lawyers are unable to regulate the relationship between the headship and the representative body. You know, we can do this in the debate, work, committees, bodywork, but it can't be as an argument in the end. So we can't tell these people that we don't know that in a democratic world as a democratic way of choosing there's a system that prefers a preferential system so when someone, when Mr. Ante Djapic is elected somewhere for mayor, then his party will get 30% of the preferred seats and we'll have a stable power. I speak only as one of the models in democratic France, Italy or I don't know where. So this intervention on behalf of the promoter was just aimed at building a public, in the media of the political consensus already reached in Parliament with this famous one of ours but, through the debate in the first reading, in these laws that are ultimately through their concrete solutions and less important, that, once in this country, this Parliament take responsibility for something, which is to tell the Croatian public that the Parliament will try and provide the citizens with what it wants, which is that the mayors, mayors and mayors in the next regular round are elected directly and give their votes legitimacy. And given that, regardless of the whole series of remarks, I don't think these remarks should be a reason for this, this proposal, these laws to be rejected in the first reading because there was a formulation here in terms of determining to the proposal as if it were a second reading and it was like the adoption of the law. So we know what first reading is. The first reading is a principled political debate which, after that, if these laws democratically commits to the second reading by all parties, and it will also be potential and will act positively in public to include the public in the debate and I think we will be on the way to solve one important issue, this one, but I say, first and foremost, through the attitude and willingness of this Croatian Parliament to provide citizens with their commitment, what they have clearly shown throughout, throughout all the polls, through all the statements, and this is that there is no more dilemmas about direct elections in the Croatian political public. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-29-0.u10966	I would like to thank Mr. Nikola Ivanis for his proposal. On behalf of the club IDS Mr. Representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-29-0.u10967	Dear Mr. Vice President, the esteemed representatives of the government, the distinguished gentlemen of the council. About this matter I.D.S. will speak far more at the time when a government sends its proposal into the parliamentary procedure. Well, that's where we're interested in life. This is actually a warm-up in front of the storm I don't know what you'd actually call it but if you answer someone's direct choice of mayor of mayor then he answers IDS, HDZ IDS, but now the question is whether or not it's the best election model. Proposers of this law will hardly be in a position to perhaps somewhere other than Krk confirm themselves in that position. how now the proposings do not want a direct election of MPs and are now insisting on the direct selection of mayors, mayors or mayors. It is hard to admit now, but at a time when parliamentaryism in this country is yet to be revived, I think the best electoral model when local self-government was the one from 1992 when 50% of the council members were elected unrecognizable and 50% from the list. I guess it's better in a town where we have 25 council seats of them 13 to choose directly than just one. I don't know how it came to me, the ref of the electoral legislation, in 2000, when we carried it through this parliament, which was the most damaged by it. The most listed by the promoters. And with this I think what the HNS is proposing now will further detronize the opposition parties today. Oh, God, that's what I'm cheating on about. We'll see the result of the election, how they'll pass. As for the incompatibility of the functions of this proposed law, I do not know Mr Markovanovic said that this would lead to the loss of cooperation from the base perhaps it is not crucial however such a proposal is truly inconceivable by my court. And I believe that the government's proposings will have more experience so that, as proposed here in the laws, they will not play. If some do not understand it as a conflict of interest law, we will soon see who will suffer the most damage. What is certainly most important in this bill, before the principle council's relationship is determined, should not at all be debated in this legislative proposal that we would not really have our chiefs, that our mayors, in the right sense, become small Pharaohs in one word, untouchable in their local environments. THAT absolutely no one can do anything to them, that no one can resolve them and that they are fully superior to the council. I will always, and also because in two terms I acted as president of the County Assembly to fight for the local council to be in charge of the executive authority. Whether it's about the mayor or whether it's about the mayor, it's about the mayor. The principle was advocated in 2000. Here in Parliament. YES, a semi-presidential system is being replaced by a parlameter system, unfortunately, we have received one half parliamentary, and now at the local level, one such parleementary system is being replaced by a clean presidential system. Which means these central issues that have already arisen in all these discussions. First of all, what is the role of the council, how the Commissioner can be replaced and for which the decision can stand and so forth. This model that suggests what we must think of it in my court led to the weakening of parlametarianism at the local level. And that's what I think in one transition period for the Republic of Croatia, it's not good. Although I have the impression that this model was pushed at the time when elections for the city of Zagreb were to be held, however, the opportunities have changed significantly today. So the ratio of condition son to quant, is the relationship of council and chief. I claim the local self-supply model of 92th was another time I will repeat far better perspective for the Republic of Croatia than that we introduced into the country's legal system in 2000 and 2001, respectively. I think we really need to think very carefully about what's proposed here-- and once again I'll say, if someone's direct choice fits, then at this point it fits IDS, or our constituency. I am also as confident as Mr Ivanis spoke earlier, our citizens at this time are absolutely for the direct selection of mayors, mayors or mayors. But I think they're gonna get sober from it very soon. Maybe even we'd be more comfortable with an Italian model. That the mayor, not partisan but Italian, who gets a relative majority can have 60% of the mandate. Ideally, let's play and that way here's this one model that the world knows. as Mrs Mirjana Kasapovic recently wrote about the tomal electoral system, certainly one of the most addressed in the matter is one of the co-athurists of all to date election systems at local or national level. Among other things, she says, mayors, mayors, are also elected directly in Albania, Bulgaria, Italy, Macedonia, Germany, Romania, Slovakia, Slovenia, Turkey, says in Austria it is a practice in Gradisto, Korushoj and Tyrol but not in all federal provinces. And there are also reputations for democracy in which these elections are indirect. Like Belgium, Estonia, Ireland, the Netherlands, Norway, Spain and so on. That is also what we gentlemen should respect. It is not everywhere in Europe as this legislative proposal is being proposed. Direct elections say it is easy to introduce but it is not easy to solve the problems they are opening. But this is what this legal proposal is about. For example, the norm that in the first round, the mayor or mayor, if he wants to be elected, must receive 50% of the votes of all voters. Well, where is that possible? In our election, 60 or 65% means voters, so 50% should get 85% of the vote in the first round. Well, that's not even Enver Hodja could get any more if he just came back to power. But what may be far more important is these reasons why Mrs. Kasapovic is called on, and the basis of which she indirectly contests such proposed solutions. First, she says the following, firstly, direct selection of mayors and mayors of mayors are formally democratic of the indirect, but content can be very dangerous for the development of local democracy. And it absolutely needs to be agreed on. Other original choices are mostly of undesirable forms of personalization, finally gentlemen, in the idolatry environments I do not know in one Melanist, Babi's Greda or such environments, can be defeated by a prominent butcher or by a third. But I assure you in the great cities of Rijeka via Pula, I do not know the county of Istria, Slavosko Brod or any other, that the city of Zagreb is not the only choice that only party candidates can get. And let's not just fool ourselves about it. The third says, if direct elections are the democratic system of authorities that emerge from them is potentially incomparably undemocratic, i.e. I guess we're all aware of that, too. And fifth, since the new model of local authorities is not consistently set up, it is potentially conflicting within itself. The consequences of this could be frequent crises by local authorities caused by conflicts between local chiefs, local representative bodies, etc. Which in the end will be for citizens as extremely expensive. I'll say three times, if someone in this country fits the direct selection of the mayor, the mayor, then it's the IDS. But is that the best thing we need to do in a serious parliamentary debate, and we here first and foremost, the MPs judge even though we all know it will eventually be the way most people want it to be. So this proposal wouldn't become lifeless, so it doesn't come down to the fact that the operation worked, and in the end, the patient died, I think, first of all, that one of the decentralisations in this country, regionalization and what's most important at this point is to put an emphasis on the financing of local self-government. Secondly, as far as our legal proposal for IDS is concerned, diplomats cannot be members of municipal, city, or county councils. So I think we'll all agree that this bill is primarily illogical, that it's a unique case if diplomats can be members of a council in Europe, I don't know who knows such a model, that they can't act that function, that it's something that's inadmissible, illogical, incompatible to the very logic of common sense, etc. When I say it's a unique case in Europe, it's absolutely like that. Imagine now that someone from India has to come to the city council four times a year, and four times a year has to meet the city council. In four years, the City or Municipal Council or the County Assembly must meet at least 17 times. If a diplomat can now use his vacation once a year, let's say twice, he can live in a middle of an overseas country as much as four times a year. If that were illogical, it must be illogical. You today at the time of Internet communication or satellite etc. The technique may and may be relatively closely monitored by events in some environment, but everyone will also agree with me that at the same time we can't be in two places. That the system is incompatible doesn't need to be used up at all. We have in the legal norms provisions that people who work in the state administration can not be council members in municipalities, cities, county assemblies, and now note to state officials, we allow officials to be councillors in the city, municipality or county assembly. Well, that's not there, that's nowhere to be found. The members of the administration of municipal companies at the city level cannot be council members in that same environment and this is something to the side of the government's reasoning as necessary, as soon as possible. Whether it's moral or not, it's another occasion, but once again I'm going to say that what happened yesterday in the city of Pula is also clearly talking about Croatian diplomacy as a whole. So what matters to us at this hour is a complete reform of local self-government. Let's start from the foundation to the roof, and the election is just a roof. So let's do exactly as I would say one turn, we're going towards a regionalization, we're going towards the financial strengthening of local self-government, we're going towards the reform of power, jurisdiction, and local self-government itself, if possible, a clear return of property to the local self-government that she had there until 99. Therefore, once again we must be restrained about this legislative proposal and do not let damage happen to us because this is the kind of reforms that the country is going to the west, clearly going, but it is time until they are adopted as a rule of extreme debt. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-29-0.u10968	I'd like to thank the esteemed representative. For the violation of the Rules of Procedure, respected representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-29-0.u10969	Mr. Vice President, I wanted to warn you that the speaker began to violate Article 210(2) that he had strayed from the topic, but since he immediately returned to the topic then I quit. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-29-0.u10970	Thank you. Replica, the esteemed representative of Nikola Ivanish.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-29-0.u10971	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'd just like to replicate how this system is going, how what is proposed tends to marginalise the representative body, or city council. Don't bother. I think it's a question of leaving the budget in the city council's domain, that the issue of adoption of the city council's budget is that these two discussions are full of the city council's power to have a very direct impact on both the programme and on the work of the leader directly elected. Further co-decision on real estate management, which is absolutely necessary in part with the city council, also says that it is a huge job and the final question that the impeachment is regulated through the city council is absolutely the opposite of what we are seeking as proposing the marginalisation of the representative body. These relations simply need to be arranged, and the city council's powers for four, six or eight sessions a year are very large. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-29-0.u10972	Thank you. On behalf of the Proposer? Mr. Cupcake. Both of you? One on behalf of the proposer can. Dear Representative Cacic, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-29-0.u10973	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Indeed, there is a whole range of countries in the world and Europe that have both practices. So we have direct elections and we have indirect elections. This is in no way controversial and we can always agree with that argument. However, it is also true that there are some foundations to which we should treat ourselves, some of the guidelines that this country has already adopted, this Parliament we have brought some attitudes and in which we are rapidly hoping we are finally moving. I mean the European Charter of Local Self-Government, I think, above all, the Council of Europe, the Committee of Ministers, a guideline on the application of the principle of subsidiarity. On 12.10.95, under b.6.2., the second sentence refers to a direct choice, not by chance. Of course, it's not an obligation, but not an accident. A whole series of countries that have a long tradition, a centuries-old tradition of indirect elections have recently changed that. England is one such example. There are, of course, countries that have a mixed choice. There are several arguments here that might be helpful to comment on. Of course, in different environments, in different sizes units of local self-government, different levels of municipalities, the city, the county will also be selected by different candidates. Somewhere it'll be partying, somewhere it'll be a non-partisan person. Somewhere it will be supported by different safe associations, coalitions of parties in different ways. Of course, the experience that is already in the world in a series, in thousands of examples, has been clearly confirmed, in large areas most often the parties dominate with their candidates. That's right. In a smaller, more recognizable person, sometimes not just her, but the whole family and a few generations back. That's what this is all about, and in one case and another we're convinced there's no real hard, except for the narrow party interest of the argument to oppose the direct choice. If we're talking about big cities, if we're talking about a party candidate, then we're talking about people who are going to get original IDs for the first time, who are going to get strength over their party top and for the first time change the classical hierarchical system that is simply defined. The hierarchical system is defined in a way, we face the boss, and that's the party top, and back to the user, and that's the citizen here. It's a definition of the hierarchical system everywhere in companies and politics. So, for the first time when we get directly elected mayors with all possible adjustments to our law, we're open to everything. This is about principle, and the corrections are all welcome. Of course, I hope it doesn't last until 2092, as he's trying to impose himself here. It might be a little shorter, though. So, with all the corrections these people will be able to correct and change party policies in the interest of their citizens. We'll also refresh the party scene with some new people who will prove themselves on a concrete ground. For the first time, we will get people with powers like today in Croatia, for real, in the interest of citizens, no one on that ground has. I have an analysis here that was done by Mayor Heidelberg, very serious. They're choosing the mayor for eight years. They have the ability to re-election, she's been elected twice, they have people who have been elected three times to mandatory legal retirement. It speaks of experiences and warns of advantages and certainly flawed. So we will, therefore, have a rigidly centralized country that has already been mentioned here, which is highly centralised financially, administratively, remember anything, there is nothing that affects the lives of citizens in this country without being centralised to an extreme extent. For the first time in Croatia, we will break the harmful, carcinogenic apparatus. We will get an opportunity that will have inconceivable consequences that strong mayors, including mayors and mayors, affect Croatia's change. These people will have another ID to the central government. These people will justifiably ask for decentralisation of funding. Second level of original funding. These people will vote differently in this House, so we won't have a situation in this budget that we have one party whose 66 MPs didn't find fit to give a single amendment to the budget. Believe me, that's when the amendments will rain in the interest of the citizens, the cities from which these representatives come. Of course, when we talk about small cities, these advantages are other species. We'll have respectable people here, in the village of the prominent bosses and peasants, what we've already said. In three generations of people everyone knows, and their relatives and everybody appreciates it. All of this, of course, assumes exactly what Cain was saying, on the contrary. Local, municipal, city councils and councils are not parliaments. Their function is not identical to the functions of the parliaments. This type of homogeneity, consistency, harmonised system is unnecessary and harmful. That's exactly what we're up against, that's what we're stressing here again. And it would really surprise me, I guess for the first time, if IDS were so hard to go against his own interest. I've never noticed it before, nor in this law that he proposed parallel to us, is it entirely aimed at restoring power in Pula that they didn't get. So, gentlemen, let's be clear. It may not be of interest to the CNS, but in the long run, it is the interest of the citizens of this country in the long run. And the story we keep listening to "yes, but we need to change 40, 50 or 60 laws" for years, and we hope that this election cycle that's ahead of us won't go through with these trade political coalitions that we've witnessed in all these years, and that all of this busting into our chests, we're all for direct selection, we're really going to turn into a direct choice. And all those who vote against will reveal themselves as such. In other words, they do not want a direct choice, but they are unable to tell the public of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-29-0.u10974	Thank you. We have several corrections of incorrect allegations. The first for the word came the respected representative Babic-Petricevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-29-0.u10975	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. A colleague, Cacic, said, quote: "The 66-seat party has not given a single amendment." Mr. counterpart, a party with 66 MPs is called HDZ and it gives and will only give amendments to good laws. These have not yet been experienced since the opposition in this House, and our amendments are hopes. Most of them. Please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-29-0.u10976	Thank you. You haven't corrected an incorrect quote. We haven't given any amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-29-0.u10977	What do you mean, it's not? And come on...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-29-0.u10978	To the budget, to the budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-29-0.u10979	Yes, a warning.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-29-0.u10980	We haven't given any amendments to the budget. Dear Representative Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-29-0.u10981	There were several incorrect allegations, but I want to say the following. A reform of local self-government began in 2001, and thus it actually began its detronisation with power. In this case, I'm afraid the opposition won't profit right now. The IDS is, Mr. Chacic, for this bill of law, and I'm in. But I warn you, he can do many harm.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-29-0.u10982	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the respected representative Markovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-29-0.u10983	Well, Mr. Cacic claims it may not be of interest to the CNS. The exact assumption would be that it's the only way for the CNS to get some mayor or mayor.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-29-0.u10984	Thank you. Next to correct the incorrect allegations, the distinguished representative Rebić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-29-0.u10985	In fact, I would like to correct, it is incorrect that this HNS proposal of the HNS Law of the PGS could be improved by amendments. This proposal is so incomplete and has so many holes and gaps and therefore remains the only possible solution if we want to have a direct choice of mayors, mayors and mayors of a brand new law that needs to be drawn up by the Croatian government.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-29-0.u10986	I thank you. We've exhausted the corrections of an incorrect assumption with this. On behalf of the Club LIBRE, Honorable Representative Herman.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-29-0.u10987	Mr. Vice President, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. There's a lot of excitement in the assembly, certainly not because I'm going to start talking right now, but here's so little depressed but without wanting to do the arbitration just by chance I can give one first idea and then literally quote, I'm going to repeat not with a desire to arbitration. In the last decade, the direct election of mayors has been prevailing in a growing number of countries, which is confirmed by Resolution 139 of 2002 on public relations, local parliaments and executive authorities in local democracy brought by the Congress of Local and Regional Authorities of Europe, which notes that the direct selection of mayors is from peoples of procedures that are increasingly used in the Member States of the Council of Europe for the appointment of executive authorities. Of course, there is no need to blindly follow some experience and to make a myth out of European experience, namely the documents and recommendations brought by Europe, either by the European Union or by the Council of Europe, but there is no doubt that this type of experience is involved, that it outweighs the process of direct selection of mayors, mayors and mayors, but it is impossible not to say that this process is happening at the same time in an almost different context at the same time. Here is only one small piece of data, of the total collection of tax resources in our Croatian territory only 13 to 14% remains units of local self-government regardless of what level. The European standard is one different story is about percentages expressed from 18% to 20%. So, really, access to this matter requires a deeply designed story about decentralisation as well as regionalisation, because it's a twin topic. What will it do, however we establish a relationship between the representative authorities and the first man of the executive authority of the mayor, mayor or mayor of really empty pockets, or what the local community will do with empty pockets. So it's actually without a desire to arbitration an attempt to explain that it's a much more complex matter than whether we're going to decide here by plebiscite to or against the election of mayors, mayors or mayors. Another important thing to open, starting a debate in this area means actually starting a debate on one of the most important issues for Croatian Development. If decentralisation and regionalisation so in this context and the subject of the election of the direct election of mayors, mayors and mayors would not be so understood we are actually giving up the opportunity to discuss development. In this sense, the Club of Libre gives full support to the promoter because it is beginning to actually open the topic. This is very welcome and this topic is open in one way or another in the previous meeting, the promoters were then not sure if it was already said today, it is fair to say colleague Pusic and colleague Shantic and in fact this proposal is in one way or another in the procedure. But this should also be added that at the session of this Parliament when the government represented itself, in fact, represented its programme, heard the following, so it's a 2003 programme. 2007 The system will be introduced quotes from Prime Minister Sanader's accepted programme. A system of direct selection of mayors, mayors and mayors will be introduced, as has been said. However, it is one single sentence in the Government Programme and an indication that in the next local elections, we will choose the first people of the local self-government units differently. However, what I think is not good and it is said directly that a commitment has been made to reform not only this part of Croatia's self-government but also in other parts of the programme you will see the story of decentralisation and regionalisation, that this session is not about the government's proposal. My colleagues and colleagues from HDZ won't mind if I say that's because they want to feel the pulse, that they want to see what this assembly has to say, preferably, the most opposition. But on this subject, it doesn't seem to me that too much of a spear is broken or that it shouldn't break a spear which is the interest of the CNS, which is the interest of the IDS or of someone else, the LIBR doesn't have any interest because someone's going to throw it away, first I'm going to say it, some special chance in these elections, and then I'm going to show it myself has no special chance in direct elections. Unless we make some significant acquisitions in the meantime, but it's hard to expect it, but if that's the case, if this is the case, then I guess it was right to expect the government to come out with its bill without waiting, so as much as it may be unserious on my part, which I'm just assuming, rather than threatening, "to threaten" that this proposal will come. This is what we should do in these discussions in a certain way even if not equal to something equal, this is how some are more equal than some who are already exposed to their proposals, their arguments, etc. But good. There may be some questions here that need to be answered, which are in our court of law. What is the model of direct choice for Croatia, because it is not a single model. Whether the electoral model should guarantee majority support to the local executive authority by the representative body. So the questions we're looking for today are answers. IS the selection of mayors, mayors, the mayor should be timed with the election of the Council of Assembly, i.e. whether the term of office of the executive local authorities should be longer than the term of office of the representative body. We heard the information, and that's true, that there's a mayor or a mayor for eight years. It's hard to agree that it's appropriate to our opportunities, but that experience exists. As there is experience that simply in the same term they do not go to the electoral procedure and representatives of the representative body as well as the first man, i.e. the holder of an executive authority whose head, mayor, mayor, mayor. Furthermore, should the mayor, or the mayor and the mayor be given the authority of the chairmanship of the representative body? And you have that in European experience. Do you and how to settle the issue of the headship, or mayoral assistants in the conduct of local executives, in order to further settle the issue of impeachment by the mayor, mayor, mayor? In our court, these are the questions that are central to this subject and we are actually trying to answer them without any pretentiousness, and in doing so, they will try and make some suggestions, so to the extent that this is usually said when we are very important, so to the extent that the promoter accepts, then we will continue to support it. We find it interesting that the promoter, including this assembly and the Croatian public, hears just one step further, because we think that they are competent and that they belong to parts of Croatian experience, and partly European experience whether they come from the Council of Europe or from the European Union. Before answering these questions, we want to highlight our basic commitment, and it ultimately dictates and answers to these questions that I have raised. We are against the installation in the Croatian System of Local Self-Government simply something that we could call local presidentialism, or presidential system in, at local levels of municipalities, city, county. And what does that mean? It's just that now we opt for yes or no, we've heard it in more debates. But then what happens under this choice of direct, and without creating balances in the relations between the presidential government and the executive government, what actually happens when it's a direct choice, what are the essential features? We haven't heard the answers, and here's a unique opportunity to do it. The electoral system that seeks to ensure the absolute majority of the bearer council, in the Council the holder of the local executive authority. The merger of the functions of the executive authority and the chairman of the representative body, and the inability to recall the holder of the executive local authority. It's that local president, someone can call him a sheriff, someone prince, someone boss, but whatever the danger from such a pattern follows. As regards the local assembly and the executive authorities in local democracy, a memorandum of congress between local and regional authorities in Europe says. I think that this convention should be called on, because there is that important part of some European organism to say, at the level of local self-government, and that is local in a narrow sense, either regional or regional. The memorandum places the local assembly as the highest authority responsible for all local affairs. And she must be entrusted with the most important affairs, which is, in our court, the essence. Setting political goals, voting of local budgets and taxes, urban planning, approval of local policies, approval of annual accounts, budgets. The Executive Authority must be responsible for the implementation of the local council's policy by making individual decisions, the memorandum indicates that local executives will have a significant advantage over the local council in the control of information and the possession of resources. It will therefore be stressed that specialisation of the roles of the council or representative body is necessary, not in the management of the local community, but in the control of the executive function. Furthermore, the memorandum insists that in a system based on democracy, the executive body should be politically responsible to the assembly, regardless of the mechanism of its choice or determination. Even if the population is directly selected by the executive body, there must be a quote "clear rules of responsibility that should at the same time guarantee effective control of the executive authority by the assembly". In its resolution 139 of 2002 of the Congress of Local and Regional Authorities of Europe in the Public Relations of the Local Assembly and the Executive Authority in point 5g. It is specified that representative congregations must enjoy guarantees, effective control of executive power, especially through the authority to approve local budgets, local taxes, the adoption of reports in the implementation of budgets and spatial planning projects, and the adoption of local policies. Therefore, given the position of the memorandum I mention and the resolutions of the local and regional government congress, in designing the legal position of local executive authorities in the Croatian system of local self-government, these assumptions should actually be respected. Choice one, and we're trying to answer the questions that were asked earlier. The choice of all local executive heads, so the mayor, or mayor, should be direct. There should be no difference between certain types of local, or regional self-government when it comes to the electoral head of local or executive authorities. Secondly, the selection of the municipal chief and mayor as well as the mayor by our court should be separate from the election of the representative body, i.e. it should be really direct, not quasi direct. In this regard, we should not accept any of the variants of the existing local system in the sense that candidates for a leading executive function in local government, such as any idea, are bearers of the list, you have this example in France or Spain. Someone might call on that, too. Or the election of councilors should be directly linked to the selection of mayors, mayors or mayors, such as the choice, and here we heard it almost with applause as the choice of mayors in Italy. So here's what this is about. The problem of Croatian local self-government is not in our court in the weakness of the executive government, so that it should be guaranteed a stable majority in the council. In Croatian conditions, the control function of the council could sooner be transformed into a farce in a system that would guarantee absolute or maybe even two-thirds support for the mayors, mayors and mayors in the beginning. Possible cohabitation, a minor problem, we stress, is a minor problem than the concentration of absolute government in the holder of local executive authorities. The voting procedures for selecting the head of the local executive authority and the presidential body should therefore be completely separated. The particular question is, should we synchronise the mayor's choice, i.e. the mayor and the mayor and the representative body? Let me cut it short. That we think that synchronization should be. We've had different experiences, we've heard about it. But in the countries of the European Union, the synchronisation of the mandate is, in fact, a normal thing, too difficult. Furthermore, as regards the electoral model, which would be applied in selecting the mayors, mayors and mayors should certainly insist on the two-round selection, as practiced in Germany, because there are fakes, so it does not happen, and all that would not be a two-round circle is simply like this with a football jargon, a fake or serious one, then it is not simply a legitimate procedure. He may have his legal basis in that sense to be legal, but then it's not a legitimate procedure. For example, what kind of model is being practiced in that light in Germany. Unless one candidate in the first round achieves an absolute majority of the fallen votes in the second round, two candidates with the highest number of votes are competing and the candidate who won more votes wins. We would get mayors, mayors and mayors with majority support if we did not serve from two rounds of 20 to 30% of the votes that would then likely find themselves in a situation where they do not enjoy the majority support of parties in the council or in the assembly. The election in one round of voting but in the preferred voting system, we also have that experience, can indicate the first, second and third preferences. That already means something. How time goes on. So it couldn't possibly have happened, but first of all, that the government's proposal contains possibly just one round in the election. Then it'll literally be a fake but I can't talk about it. It's simply not fair in speaking because I don't know that's how it's going to happen, but let the imagination allow the assumption that it might happen. If so, the chances in such elections for the mayor, mayor and mayor in one round will only be made open to HDZ. So, counting on a little tolerance and I don't doubt Mr. Vice President will do that, here's just a few things. The law requires, of course, to resolve the issue of recalling the leader and we advocate a simple solution to make it with a vote in the representative body. Whether it is 2/3 or 3/4 may be a matter of distance to this problem but it is the same thing but certainly also a referendum because however expensive, complicated etc., without it simply won't be well anchored real foundations of what the direct choice rests on. And what's he resting on? At the citizens' trust. The story of solving through government and similar things is beyond the spirit of what belongs to direct choice. So we are simply prone to the Croatian local and regional self-government system which will respect to a significant extent the principles of restrictions on the powers of the mayors, mayors and mayors if the termology of constitutional law could be applied to the right of local self-government then it could be said that we advocate a system of prevention and balance. And let me remind you that Libra proposed yesterday, I comment on Article 2 of the bill's proposal, that an active electoral right should be obtained at the age of 16, which is also the recommendations of the Council of Europe and there are practices of such experience in Saxony,... Holstein, Lower Saska. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Saska and Donja Saska are not the same, please nice, so three states. All in all if someone said that they were ahead of why Croatia would not be ahead. Let's involve young people in political life. So, once again, thank you very much. Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, your colleagues and your colleagues for being patient and not calling for a breach of the Rules of Procedure. It exists, but here on this side is with a lot of arguments and infinitely likable as you have seen exposed about an important topic that we support and want this debate to continue. And please, or I suggest that HDZ open up the cards and that the government give its bill of law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-29-0.u10988	Thank you. So, I removed your suspicion of my tolerance for being glad. And you used my tolerance to drink water during that tolerance. Thank you. On behalf of the Proposer, the Honorable Representative, Lesar. Before you get the word I will take advantage of the occasion and greet the students of the 4th year journalism of the University of Mostar University with teachers and primary school "Murterski Škoji" from Murter. The Honorable Representative, Lesar, on behalf of the Proposer. [[Applause]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-29-0.u10989	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, there have been several more questions and dilemmas that must be seriously analyzed and give answers right now to those that can be answered. First, I told you that it is very important for us when the Croatian Parliament will adopt the law by which the elections will be held in May next year. I want to remind you of two important details. When the election model for the election of parliament was adopted and the Constitutional Law on the Implementation of the Constitution was passed, it was then followed by a provision that the electoral model for parliament must be adopted at least one year before the elections were conducted. There are no such provisions for local elections, and regardless of the matter of the Constitutional Law, we believe that we should be sufficiently politically responsible for the citizens who will be called to the elections in May next year to tell them at least one year before which model they will choose. That's why we insist on it. Not in the fall, not in the spring. Let's try to pass these laws in the first half of this year. I note that the response to the elections is either greater or smaller than the consequences of the election models, and especially the fact that we have brought these electoral models. Furthermore, if the government is seriously preparing a full reform of local and regional self-government, then I must warn of two provisions of the European Charter of Local Self-Government. Article 5 states: "Modifications of the local authorities will not be carried out without prior consultation with local communities which are likely to be concerned through referenda where the statute is provided for.". Therefore, this Charter provides the authority with the obligation to enable the local community to participate in the debate on changes in powers and competences. If only in the fall the government comes with its bill and we have a broad debate so they will not be adopted objectively before the late spring next year. And another provision that is extremely important. As much as possible, funds transferred to local authorities will not have the character of the funds. The allocation of these funds cannot undermine the discretionary right of local authorities to run politics within their powers. Countys have powers in health care, social care, primary school cities, part of the county's secondary school, 2 billion 10 million 983 thousand kuna for this year and for every decision by every city and county government needs the consent of the competent ministry. The model's not new. The model was transferred from earlier years. If we wish to have and satisfy this condition in the following year, see Article 9. The European conventions must then be amended in this year so that it can be applied next year. Finally, it was not clear to colleagues to Kajin that the Croatian People's Party and the Primorje-Gorskin Alliance are proposing a law that doesn't go in their best interest. That's right. We did not work this bill to please our narrow party interests, but to please the citizens. It is not clear to him, because they probably have a bill to change the existing law just to win power in the City of Pula a year before the local elections, changing the law, taking down a councilman who has cancelled obedience and talking about selfish interests. Well, there's something more important than party interest, and these are citizens' interests. Listening to his discussion and following a phonogram of April 3rd last year, he appears to have read his discussion from that phonogram. Where can you get most in the first round? When he listed countries where there are direct elections, he left Germany out. In Germany, however, electoral models and election rules are not even subject to the federal law, or even to earthly laws somewhere, but to the statutes of cities as elections and constitutions and internal structures are being made. We only suggested in one small part that it should be the authority of the representative body and that the government had already told us in its obvious that we were changing the essential provisions of the law. The first and second election rounds for the leaders, therefore, to the entanglement. Now, if anyone's afraid and entangled, it's his problem, but the final decision will still be made by citizens, not by political policy bureaus. An autocratic model of rule as a danger of direct elections. I don't know why this flawed model is constantly imposed on the rest of Croatia if he's a problem in Istria. And that's what my colleague Cain keeps saying. A colleague, Markovanovic, said we are giving this bill because it is the only way HNS can come to the election of mayors and mayors. That's right, fellow Markovanovic. We seriously count that with strong players we'll have more leaders than ever. That's right. But not by the decision of the representative bodies, but by the citizens. And it's not a selfish interest, we're moving towards the citizens. And you're not going to challenge that right, I agree, because I know you're a big Democrats. And in the end, it was an observation that this law cannot be corrected by amendments. This is the first reading of a law that is not subject to amendments, and the first debate is for repair and only in the second reading could we say, fellow, that the law is so bad that amendments cannot be corrected. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-29-0.u10990	I thank the esteemed representative Lesar. One notice. The 3rd session of the Information, Information and Media Committee of the Croatian Parliament will be held today at the session break at 13:30 in Hall 202. On behalf of the HSS Club, distinguished representative Ante Markov and Ivan Kolar.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-29-0.u10991	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, representatives of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, colleagues and colleagues. When asked whether we are for citizens of the Republic of Croatia to be more directly, they can more clearly express their voting right to respond to the HSS has always been yes. We are for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia to be more direct, more direct, fairer, more quality, however you will, express their voting right and use it for this principle, and for such a principled position we are at all levels. When I say it at all levels then both yesterday and today, it is likely that it was accidentally in this House that talked from a certain distance, saying yesterday about the possibilities of establishing new municipalities, and howling about these small municipalities, calling them these or those names, and today training the discipline of local self-government, and no one is wondering whether we are here in the Croatian Parliament, which we have chosen in the package arrangements ready to go to the voters and to have them directly decide about us. Or perhaps this great democracy and this euro step should primarily be trained on a basis. I think that HSS has had about 8 months of such reflection directed to this House under the Law on Elections in the Croatian Parliament where it proposed one variant of a mixed system in which the directness of elections and parliamentary representatives in this House would be more strongly represented. In order to contribute precisely to what most clubs have said, which is that a complete reform of the system is necessary, but rather than reforming the reform of the state administration and local self-government, the regional and regional self-government is the most important thing that is being built in every country and is not possible, and especially not without strong and influential institutions and analysis to address these serious and socially significant, and for the development of democracy and for the development of local self-government issues such as the ones we are talking about. Therefore, the HSS supports the discussion of the HNS and PGS clubs in terms of both the first, first and second laws. It also supports the openness of this debate and wants to make its contribution and absolutely agrees with the government's assessment and we want the government to join with its final solutions to this issue. Of course, it is not worth not having in mind Croatian experiences either. Since 92, Croatia has had its experience in local self-government, it has had everything that can be recorded as a common good, useful good. She also had problems that resulted from such and today’s functioning, she had her own experiences that she could not compete with anyone before because she had not had them. But it also today cannot apply any copying of the system from any other than taking over those principles that apply in countries of high democracy, in countries that have vast experience behind them. So their experiences, such as the example in Austria, gave generation mayors, family positions of certain structures of people who, by their work, had been forced into their lives for hundreds of years in such a way of action. And there is nothing wrong with that, but unfortunately it is not possible to reflect it on the Croatian reality. Therefore, we at the HSS Club hold that a serious analysis must draw valuable courts on the positive forms of these 12-years, 13 years of action by local self-government in Croatia, but that the fundamental principles, and one of these fundamental principles, we will absolutely agree, is a greater public assessment of politicians, especially the right to direct elections, the right to vote, the right to choose who they want to choose and do so at all levels. Thus, democracy and decentralisation are processes that go parallel. The reconstruction, a regional reconstruction that has often been set up as a prerequisite for certain actions, needs to take an important place for us and should contribute to what Croatia should look like in the future. Not because of the trend of the euro, but because of historical and cultural objective knowledge. And that's exactly what we need to build on the specificity of our local, regional and regional system. The question of relations within the local self-government regarding the representative body and the executive body, the issue of the headship, the question of what is opposed to the headship model, the model of the establishment of the mayor's office and the mayor's office are questions which should be answered in the content section on how and at what level individual units of local self-government can function and cannot. It is not possible to draw the equation linearly and say that for all the common denominator is the mayor's office. Of course that's not possible, but I agree with those who said it was necessary to separate the criteria. So first of all separate the criteria for large cities and the largest city, City of Zagreb. Because, of course, it is unacceptable for only one institution, the institution of the City of Zagreb, to have the decentralisation of the administration in any way that will allow legal, administrative and special bodies within the City of Zagreb and other major cities to enable citizens to exercise the rights that they can exercise under the Law and Constitution. But we also cannot ignore those smaller units of local self-government with all their specificities and problems that their role or service of citizens can and must be achieved in other ways. Therefore, there is no equation that will reconcile all those who are methodologically trying to reconcile it under the proposal of this Law. This cannot be reconciled in this way, it is necessary to take into account specificities and it is necessary to take into account the experience and the positive and the ones that have not produced good results. The relationship is not important, it has been touched in the context of relations between the central government and local self-government, this relationship has often caused different negative positions reflected in one way or another in non-implementation of the central authority's decision, either in relation to the central body towards local self-government. But the relationship that should be more direct, more direct and clear within this Act is the relationship between the local self-government units themselves. It is unacceptable and unnecessarily necessary for certain municipalities, including smaller municipalities and each municipality that has its own economic form of operation, to have the power to perform the basic functions that citizens need and have the right to exist, can not only be a number of people, cannot only be a criterion of territory, the criteria should be all this together but the most important criteria by respecting those who cannot meet this main criterion is the economic municipality. A community that has meaning and interest. Relations between these units of local self-government are something that a legislator should not only touch but also make very clear. There is no reason for certain municipalities that in a specific territorial environment have certain common elements of any municipal infrastructure, whether road infrastructure or economic integration do not have clearly developed legal moments, ways in which they will pursue common interests and thus enhance the efficiency of both the municipal and the economic system but that principle is binding. Why binding? It is precisely because it is necessary in all units of local self-government to reduce costs, rationalise business and indeed create a service of citizens, not a employment service for those who succeed. Therefore, the fundamental assumptions of resolving the overall issue of local self-government lie not only in shape and do not lie simply in the assessment of who is in favour and who is against the proposal of such a law or of another one lie essentially and in the content of the problem that must be opened and which must be fully clearly spoken of. So in terms of this first part I'm going to talk about, I'm going to conclude. The HSS Club is in principle on the view that further decentralisation and creation of a new local self-government system in Croatia is necessary, that it is necessary, clearer, more specific, more direct choice of members of the representative bodies. He suggests that these two proposals be released into a second reading and that if they can call it so in anticipation of the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, they will use everything from all the proposals, including from the contribution that the HSS Club will make to the debate, the law that will be on the trail of the Croatian tradition because, as I say, Croatia has this tradition if we want to remember it, respecting both the Croatian needs and the tradition and the present and future to pass a law that will benefit all citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-29-0.u10992	I thank you for continuing on behalf of the HSS Club, the esteemed representative, Ivan Kolar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-29-0.u10993	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. We've already heard that the HSS doesn't have a reserve against the direct election of mayors, mayors and mayors. The way in which this could be achieved, of course, that there is a proposed way to fix it or leave it as it is, and the government's proposal is expected in any case welcome debate is such as to suggest that we are on a generally well-known principle that citizens deserve more attention and trust from the person for whom they go to the polls now the relationship and responsibility against the person selected and those who choose is a matter of legal regulation and the way in which they provide it. I remind you that a little in this House is talking about the general functioning of local administration and self-government, the powers it has, the way these powers are imposed because we are service I am talking now from our own experience, the service of the central government, we are the central authorities, we are the service in one part of the county facilities, these and those, and ultimately we are direct partners with citizens. All non-functioning of the rule of law at the highest level reflects on us and we feel the need loud and clear to say that intervention in such an Election or other law does not achieve those rights, in fact the purpose of local administration and self-government if fundamental assumptions... the law does not change. This will say that if there is no legal certainty and if the rule of law does not work at the highest level, it is illusory to expect it to function in the local community. I must mention here that these two laws, the Electoral and this other law do not address the issue of local administrations and self-government, because there is a false data said 8 to 10% of the total gross product is given to the local community to solve the problems that are roughly calculated is one third of all the problems of the citizens of this country. And that's the lack where the functioning of obligations and rights is simply impossible to connect. I remind us of an example of a neighbouring one country where it is not 18, 20%, but 30% of gross products or better collected all taxes of its own that units of local administrations and federal tax that are assigned remain in local administration, almost in the same volume of obligations that the local community now has. If this is an assumption that we could go directly to the selection of commissioners, it must clearly be achieved in Croatia. Because otherwise without, if only a direct choice, and the powers actually are the same without some major rights, I don't see why you go into that choice. All of them, all those fears of the great leaders of the small communities don't exist. They were now. Believe me, the last choices are, if you're well-analysing me to recognize party leaders or I don't know, but mostly people recognized small areas, and that's why those expectations of big or small parties that their great people were getting elections, I don't think they were right, because there was mostly a person wearing a list, and the person was getting election results, regardless of what the party looked like somewhere in the federal state and somewhere in the local community. Because we chiefs if, say, 200 of us meet in one environment as we begin to analyze, we could already be either party or targeted potential singles, but we would never get these election results like we got in this way. Therefore, the proposal of the HSS is as soon as possible to come to the Parliament's proposal to try to compromise well from this proposal and to see which way the Government proposes, because we must now determine that we are for a direct choice, a direct choice, but a merger of representative bodies and now, in this case, the mayor, the mayor, as the executive authority, this control, this merger is what we expect from the Government and in the way they propose. Of course it would be good, I am now appealing to one as Parliament's representative for solidarity, to leave this legislative proposal in fact these legal proposals to another reading, without the obligation to welcome another reading, if the Government makes its proposal a better, clearer solution for which it could be determined. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-29-0.u10994	Thank you very much. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of William Herman.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-29-0.u10995	Just to be exact. So, a colleague said gross social product. But you said gross social product. So, not from gross social product, but from the total tax collection, I can, by tax means, and that is 13 to 14%, if Zagreb is excluded, the city of Zagreb has its own special fiscus, then it comes from this amount from 8 to 9%. So it's a correction to an incorrect quote by the Rules of Procedure and I ask you to commend me.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-29-0.u10996	Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, in accordance with Article 204(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, I will propose to the Rules of Procedure to supplement the agenda of the 6th session, the Proposal for a decision on amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, the Proposer of the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the Political System. Any of the representatives or representatives have any objections to the inclusion of this item in the agenda? There isn't. Then I put on, I determine that this supplement is done. On behalf of the promoter, the respected representative Shantic. Darko Shantić, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-29-0.u10997	Mr. President, State Secretary, that is, associates, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Let me now, at the end of the debate held by the clubs, thank you very briefly for the content and rich debate, to assume on behalf of the motionary the obligation to follow those suggestions that we consider to be useful for improving the legal text and that, in the second reading, if we receive your support, we will give you an even more quality law. I would just briefly refer to what the HDZ Club said when counterpart Markovanovic said that perhaps the mayor's office should be replaced or that it might be more reliable. I would like to remind you that just in the debate over these same laws in the past term, the HDZ Club insisted that the headship be abolished as such and that something be introduced that would appear to be the office of the mayor or mayor. A colleague, Vukic, said it was a pity that it was not before with that proposal, I believe that during the debate he received an answer early enough, but apparently it is still too soon. In fact, there are indications that this debate could become even more difficult if it were to take place before this to regional reconstruction and resolution of other decentralisation issues, and thus practically bring the whole story to a start so that the next elections are conducted locally under the existing law. As for the debate by the SDP, we thank the debate for expanding to those segments of these two laws that we have not, in which we have not intervened as a question of local self-government, the issue of large cities, so a political approach to the whole problem. and I have announced the debate and the other segments, not just what we propose as important. HSP colleagues insist on the previous adoption of political party laws that this is one of the preconditions for making appropriate changes and procedures in local self-government. We believe that this is not necessary, simply this regulation will be implemented in the existing regulations that will then apply. At least it would be really good if that regulation were passed parallelly. Their claim does not stand, namely, we cannot agree with it that these proposals are marginalized by the representative body. I'm not going to comment specifically on my colleague Cain's thinking on behalf of the IDS who practically calls this a storm warm-up. For a very simple reason why I do not consider this whole debate in the context of their proposal to amend and supplement the Law on Choice to be principled I will not speak of it again. I thank my colleague William Herman for his inspired presentation, with numerous suggestions that we will have safe time to discuss and which we will have in mind. I also thank the HSS club which supported our proposals, our laws, and which has also advocated a political approach to this whole problem that we will take care of even now we can conclude that the elements of such an approach exist in our existing proposals. Allow me, however, colleagues and colleagues to really read to you two documents that we consider an extremely important basis for the adoption of these two laws, which has already been spoken about and I will try to be quite concrete. At its meeting of 12 October, the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe gave a guideline number 19 in which it specifically recommends in the section on steps and measures to encourage participation of citizens in local elections and in the system of parliamentary democracy that voters should be given greater influence on the choice or appointment of the head of the executive bodies of local administrations, and this can be achieved by direct elections or referendum whose result is binding on local self-government or some other methods. I believe that you recognize the elements of the proposed laws in this particular recommendation, with the fact that under point 7 and that something related to those provisions on incompatibility, where point 7 states that multiple electoral functions should be reconsidered, we are just doing the proposed Law on Selection. And finally to remind all of us in this House, to get to know the general public in some way. In its publication "Croatia in the 21st century public administration" the Office for the Development Strategy of the Republic of Croatia also saw a particular crisis and lack of self-government system envisioned a two-step reform. First, and we can say that we've done it first, whether in a satisfactory way... we can give it a grade. That minimum procedures should first be carried out in the institutions and the electoral system, and in the second step that more radical measures should be taken to decentralise and revive local democracy and regionalisation, and as one of the main objectives set out in the establishment of an electoral system that will highlight the choice of persons and will be more appropriate to individual types of local units. Let your colleagues and colleagues finally experience what the profession, what the public, and what our services are preparing for us parliamentary representatives, and that is precisely when it comes to this problem Office for the Strategy for the Development of the Republic of Croatia in its publication "Croatia in the 21st Century Public Administration". Thank you very much. I believe that this will be a sufficient basis for further discussion individually by the MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-29-0.u10998	I thank my colleague Chantic. The president of the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security, Mr Ivan Jarnjak, reminds the Committee members that the meeting of the Committee is in room 84 at 14.30. Honorable representative of Slaven Letica.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-29-0.u10999	Honored President Shakespeare, colleagues and colleagues. I think it is good that this bill appears to point to a series of paradoxes of Croatian democracy. In fact, to illustrate an old bizarre thesis as well as the road to heaven, in hell filled with good intentions. Namely, when the first yoga movement in the world appeared, it was undeniable that yoga was beneficial for health, but the cities were not prepared for it and the number of deaths caused by running around the cities was greater than the years of life saved because of the extended life of the joggers. So it is not at all disputed that the principle of direct choice by local and regional self-government leaders is a general trend in Europe, but Croatia's democracy is unfortunately, and for many reasons it is very often directed against general European trends. I will list several other principles that are dominant in Europe, which have been at stake in Croatia for several years. For example, one of the fundamental principles of modern democratic parliamentary reforms is the principle of double-dominated parliament, and the former coalition government has abolished the two-dominated Croatian parliament although it is due to regional structure, multiculturalism and as one of the elements of the prevention of possible automatic tendencies almost crucial to Croatian society and the Croatian state. Then one of the major trends in Europe and the world is the development within party democracy, and we are witnessing that there are three major parties in the election, and the upcoming election of the fourth major party's leadership has always been only one candidate who received the rule between 95% and 98% of the vote, which is also not exactly a general European and world trend. The further trend is the principle of deregulation in the broadest sense of the word, and Croatia is moving towards a system of hyperregulation and hyperinstitutionalisation of its own social, economic and every other life. There are now over 350 thousand different institutions in Croatia. There are 28.5 thousand NGOs, departments, departments, ministries, a trend in the development of different types of civil defenders, so now we have a general, for children, already there is a request for a public defender for patients, etc. and the last of these principles that Croatia is not in a hurry to do so is the principle of decentralisation followed by the principle of subsidiarity. It is therefore quite indisputable that Croatian citizens and the legislators quoted it very correctly, in a large proportion they want direct elections. 90-95% of respondents in all polls demand direct elections. However, this great desire for direct elections is the result of a great frustration of citizens, because they feel that they simply have no influence and cannot affect us even as their formal representatives because the links between these citizens are broken in an unselected period and we do not even have institutional assumptions that we have the possibility of establishing an office in election units or that we have the elemental means for these elemental forms of contact. That's why all these trends show, another trend is general politicization. The predominance of the Patitocracy not only on the institutions of the state administration but on almost all the institutions of civil society is something that I have warned on several occasions and should be constantly warned about, except for the institution of the Catholic Church, the Jewish municipalities, Orthodox churches practically have ambition in change, and often manage to change all leadership. I have warned of the case of medicine, medicine, and the same is the case with education, that every government there is no exception to either HDZ or the coalition or the old HDZ has that ambition. And because of this, when it comes to the direct selection of leaders at local level, a very serious problem should be considered. DA Croatia does not have a consistent system or state theory. We need to discuss what a Croatian state is, how we are going to organise it, whether it is necessary to return it to the head of the two-home here, for the reasons I spoke about or how the state structure, a regional organisation, will coordinate with the need for effective, institutional action. I'll just mention two examples for a little while. One is the management and disposal of waste. All European experiences show that around today’s county is the unit where waste can be managed economically and rationally. We have 560 municipalities in Croatia today. Every municipality, every town, every village has its own municipal enterprise and therefore there is no compliance between these two systems. And the last example I'm going to mention is the organization of primary health care and the former and new organization of the state. There were 129 municipalities in the previous system and there were 129 homes of health. There was absolute agreement between these two social subsystems. Health homes were in major cities where, according to the late large Croatian representative Pankretic, the graphics of people from the surrounding villages would be done by trade, shopping, and there was a secondary school. There has now been a discrepancy between the organisation of public health and the organisation of the state. A former minister who is unfortunately also my student tried to settle it in a brief procedure. He issued a decree to abolish local health homes and to create a home structure at county levels. It was a disaster, in a Makarska who is 70, 100-year-old local birthplace tradition, now suddenly people have found themselves in a true beast, in an anomaly state. Therefore, I join these requirements, that a serious project of political legislation, state legislation and electoral legislation should be done. Presidential elections are ahead of us, the President of the Republic is being made important, so he sends a letter about how the law should be passed. You should do something about that problem. A new and new law on political parties should be passed and a whole set of new laws should be adopted and, in that sense, it is very useful that the HNS Club has encouraged this debate, and of course this debate should be only for the government's incentive, that it also tries to keep those promises that MP Herman quoted from the government's programme, which promises to directly elect mayors, municipal mayors and mayors. And that it doesn't happen in the final sequence because of this general anomaly that exists, that both HDZ and all of us together are against such a single definition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-29-0.u11000	Thank you. And I'm setting a break in 15 hours. After the break, Nikola Sopčić was the first respected representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-29-0.u11001	...it's time for my dear fellow Sopcic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-29-0.u11002	Thank you. Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, in my debate, I would refer to Law No 40 of the Law on Local and Regional Regional Self-Government. I would refer to some articles of the law that I consider not to be well defined because they cause certain misunderstandings. Or the proposer points us to solving some problems and a lack of misunderstandings in the subsequent solution. Thus, in its reasoning of the bill's submission, it states that the way to establish new ones is determined, i.e. the abolition or merger of existing units of local self-government. While the proposal for a law in Article 7 provides for regulation in matter by special law. I believe that the procedure for the establishment and merger of units of local or regional self-government should be regulated in some way by this law itself, so that it does not happen in every session of the Assembly that we have practically on the agenda and amendments to the laws on the areas of the municipalities of cities and county. Because the fact is that almost every proposal to amend the laws on the areas of the municipalities and cities in the Republic of Croatia has also received a positive opinion from units of local self-government in which these areas were until then. As well as positive opinions from the Ministry of Finance. And then it often happens that such units are at least some of the often an cargo and the county itself and the state itself, and often there is no great effect in the area of the newly founded unit itself. Article 35 regulates the availability of a representative body with real estate and movables, while proposing a direct selection of the executive body. And in the current law, virtually headship had the property of local self-government units. Let's imagine the situation if we have a direct choice of wearer of executive hair, and the representative body is in opposition. It's very simple to have obstructions. Article 41 suggests that the mayor, mayor or mayor appoint an assistant means after the election, which should be his replacement. I believe that if you go to the immediate choice of the executive, that's how it should be with his deputy. Article 46 provides that one third of the council members may launch an initiative to vote non-confidentially on the Commissioner. This could mean, in practice, that practically almost every municipal, city council or county assembly can go or go from the initiative of such an initiative. I think it would be better to define the reasons for the recall. Article 62 provides for the status of local committees as a legal person, I think it should leave the possibility of the local committee and not being a legal person, because we have bigger and now we have local committees that have less than 100 residents, and we know that the status of a legal person is also withdrawing certain obligations, such as own accounting, account and so forth. Which in some cases would increase the administration, and that certainly is not necessary in the small municipalities that we have and below 1,000 inhabitants. I think that would be the reason for them to say that local committees can be legal. And to set up to regulate itself simply by the statutes of the unit and the ocal self-wash. It means municipalities or cities. Article 86 provides that the representative body may decide on the volunteer behaviour of the holder of the executive authority. This may in practice mean that in a situation where the representative body is in opposition to the executive authority, mutual obstruction may occur. We have a case of neighbouring Slovenia where executive government i.e. The mayors choose directly. However, they have fully regulated the height of the salary, a mayor who is again tied to the income of the budget. To the size of the local self-government units. So I think this matter should be regulated. Despite certain indiscretions in this bill, I find this a good suggestion. There's been a debate that suits him better. I can say that every electoral law and this one corresponds to the Croatian Democratic Community. Less parties are likely to be more suited to this because it is easier to find one candidate for the executive authority. It's often the candidates for a qualified municipal council. We know that there have been cases that the particular party of the search party couldn't agree on the list. This will be simpler. In addition to all of this, I think it's less important and it's not enough just to regulate the way you choose. It's precisely these mutual relations between the executive authorities and the representative body. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-29-0.u11003	Thank you, dear colleague. The replica of my colleague Lesar, please choose your colleague, Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-29-0.u11004	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. A colleague, Sopčić, commenting on article 41 of the proposal to regulate and assist local self-government leaders, said it is not good that deputies should be unequivocally elected. It's completely two different models. It's one thing for a top man to go to elections with his deputy, whose name is also on the ballot. And here we propose another model where only the leader who appoints his deputies is chosen. Therefore, helpers can never be unscrupulously chosen. They can only be deputies, and that model we don't suggest.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-29-0.u11005	You don't want a reply to the replica? No, I don't. Okay. Dear colleagues and colleagues before we continue the debate, one more announcement. Members of the Committee on Spatial Planning and Environmental Protection are informed that a meeting of the committee will be held today at 16:00 at the hall of 233 Committee President Slavko Linic. I'm asking the board members to respond to the session. We're continuing the debate. There is a respected colleague, Ingrid Antičević Marinović. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-29-0.u11006	Thank you, Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Representative of the Government, colleagues and colleagues. I will specifically refer to this proposal for a law on local and regional regional self-government. Although we could say of a law that expresses the general mood of citizens, it can be said of this bill. And in truth, most people really want their top people to be elected in a direct way by local self-government, mayors and mayors. In this way, citizens really feel themselves that their voice sores doesn't fall somewhere in the post-election of some kind of occult secret arrangements between political parties. And that's and that's for sure. It is true that more and the existing law could in one way personalise the choice of both the mayor and the mayor in a way that the political parties that pointed out their list holders, or leading people, did not have rabbits. So those people who ran for office in local self-government didn't just stay on their own often other state, just state functions. In such a way, the alternative proposal is precisely to bring about a legal obligation. Which is easier to do. But if we want a brand-new model of local government then it seems to me that the promoters are on one good track. The truth is a whole series of things need to be solved, but the weight of the task does not mean that such a good idea should be given up. After all, there is something here that confuses the public. It confuses the public's statement by top people in power, some ministers who are aprior to the election, especially after the election, advocates of exactly this model. The direct selection of mayors and mayors, as we see today that such a mood is not here in the Parliament of the ruling majority, and it seems to me that the government still needs to tell the citizens what it wants and what it wants. It is she who should inform, not misinformed, citizens at least as far as her own will is concerned, what she intends to do. The truth is, the thing here is a little bit relativeized by the majority, so good ideas and principles are being welcomed, but that's because of a series of problems that we're not able to solve here. That's not the way it is. If he really has political will, then the problem is not easy to solve, but it can be solved. After all, we and as legislators are sitting here. It is true, then, that this problem opens up that it is neither simple nor technical to solve it, nor content. But I'm saying if there's such a political will of commitment then it's not irrevocable and it's in a way that is transparently determined exactly by the duties and then the automatic and responsibilities of the head man, i.e. the mayor, mayor and mayor on the one hand, but also the powers and responsibilities of the representative body in the units of local self-government. This is basic, and then it would not be a problem to solve that relationship, or the relationship between the executive authority that he would then manifest in his person the mayor, mayor and mayor, or only the representative body. And in that I think that this legislative proposal may suffer certain supplements, especially regarding the responsibility itself. Then it wouldn't be a problem for either of his recalls, which in this way wants to be dealt with technically by a two-thirds majority. However, this model itself, unless there are transparent tasks and any such task and consequences for failure, can happen exactly the opposite of what the proposing is, and what all of you who would accept such a proposal can, or turn out the dangers, that is to say, open a whole series of problems that are exactly the same law that want to be solved, which is that responsibility is not only then, when two-thirds of the body in such a single representative body, but when the law is violated. So it must be taxed, because it can happen in practice that it does not happen and when it often does, when the mayor or mayor frequently violates the law, but simply there is the will of two-thirds of the representative bodies is such that they do not want his recall anyway. And vice versa, when the mayor, mayor or mayor very consciously, is responsible for doing his duties, but simply because he is not at the will of the representative body, the large majority, the two-thirds-thirds to simply fall under this institute of impeachment. Therefore, the law in that sense should be improved because I think that only in such a way do we avoid that great peril that this law, I think, is also the aim of this law to avoid frequent elections in local self-government units, but also to personify responsibility. It's crucial. It doesn't matter just, it's very important, it's what the citizens want because it just seems to them that someone directly asks them something and it will have the right consequences. However, it is not only an important way in which someone chooses, anyone, it does not guarantee independence of his or her responsibility but only later on, depends on the relationship between the ruling authorities, whether as a manifestation simply of their volunteerism and political power, or simply as a general commitment to the common good and, above all, on the responsibility where their personal engagement, all their abilities will be put right in the service of the work they have taken. But that's not only because it depends in principle on the well-being of such an individual, and it certainly seems to me that this way of choice will just affirm and encourage just such people, but in order to make it impossible for others too, I think that one good determination, transparency of responsibility, and I say the withdrawal of the conjecture for the failure of certain duties that such a leader would have, and even the representative body itself, is of crucial importance. However, in all of this, it is not noteworthy that a single unit in the local self-government which also works from the representative body in such a way that it does indeed work for the benefit of its citizens. However, there is a very important relationship between the central government and local self-government units. For a more serious analysis, perhaps we should not start from this year or last year, but also not look back in some distant past, it might be good to do one analysis since 2000 as the central government refers to local authorities regardless of which political option is in the middle of the government. This is such a very one, it would be a very interesting, indicative indicator because the central government depends primarily on how much it respects true and how much it is advocate of local self-government, or the development of local self-government. Not being long and not going in, I see already a little bit and bright, so for this general debate, I think if we could better define these responsibilities, but I also say the relationship between the central government and the local self-government units so that we can achieve this certainly democratic development of local self-government as one model of development of local self-government, as this seems to me, it can come true by this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-29-0.u11007	Thank you, dear colleague. He's a pal. A bit of a replicator. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-29-0.u11008	Mr. Vice President wouldn't exactly be a classic replica, but he would point out what Mrs. Anticevic said several times on several occasions, that the law should be completed. And here's the clue to this kind of thinking that I like to think that this bill isn't good, that it's quite flawed and de facto that the government, based on this debate that we're having today, should come up with a potentially brand-new bill on this matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-29-0.u11009	Thank you, dear colleague. Reply to the replica of counterpart Antičević-Marinović. Here's your esteemed co-worker.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-29-0.u11010	I don't think we can fool each other here, but so that we don't fool the citizens, we'll see now at a statement about this first reading whether you're advocates of the direct election of the mayor, the mayor and the mayor, as some of your ministers are openly speaking.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-29-0.u11011	Complete replicas and reply to replicas. It's up to your esteemed colleague Clem. Here you go, pal Clem. Klem's knees are gone. He's losing his voice on this subject. It's time for my esteemed colleague, Rade Ivas. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-29-0.u11012	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. As I spoke on behalf of the club about the Law on Elections here, I will look back with two or three lines to the Local Self-Government Units Act proposed by the HNS-PGS Club. What is a personal and first remark to this law is that it abolishes a single administrative department operating in units, smaller units, and suggests that the establishment of administrative departmental services is, therefore, regulated actively by the administrative authorities in accordance with the statutes of the unit of local self-government and the law. In my view, such regulation in the establishment of administrative bodies leads to an increase in the number of bodies, as well as employees in local, regional self-government, which certainly causes problems, will cause problems in units with fewer inhabitants and low financial capacity which, without the help of the State budget, will not be able to pay even the same expenditure on employees. It seems to me that the promoter also gave a wrong assessment of the necessary means to implement this law because it says that no funds are needed, but it is obvious that the implementation of this law will require the necessary resources. It also does not specify whether additional funds from the budget of the local self-government unit will be needed to implement this law and I think it is contrary to Article 132. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament and of Article 4, Article 7. Budget law. And only two other comments on two articles. Article 52 provides that administrative and professional bodies in local self-government units are carried out by officials and subsistence officers. I think that here should be made more clear and clear, namely, that local and regional self-government authorities consider it representative executive bodies, to assume that the applicant here is talking about administrative bodies, i.e. services, and this should be made more clear in this article. It also seems to me that the article 71 needs to make changes. It requires administrative bodies to carry out other than for the performance of operations and self-government of the unit of local and regional self-government to carry out and monitor the implementation of general acts, which in my opinion is contrary to the State Administration System Act, and is contrary to some of the provisions set out in this proposal itself. And not to mention, we from the Croatian Democratic Community accept the government's position in its proposal not to support this proposal, noting that the government, or that the government is preparing a full reform from the area, from the area of local and regional self-government with a view to strengthening the decentralisation process. And we believe that these proposals will solve all of the problems of local and regional self-government more effectively and more effectively than this proposal of the HNS and PGS Club. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-29-0.u11013	Thank you, dear colleague Ivas. Correction of an incorrect quote, dear colleague Lesar. Here's your colleague, Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-29-0.u11014	Thank you very much. Two false allegations. My colleague Ivas said that this bill removes unique administrative departments, which is simply not true. That's what he read from the government's opinion. We simply gave the definition that administrative departments exist, but not to commit to being unique or ununited. So the management departments stay, and as they will be called and how they are organised, the statute of local self-government. Another incorrect allegation is that to implement this law requires additional funding in the budgets of municipalities, cities, counties and even in the state budget. If you carefully read Article 19 of our proposal, you will see that the issue of competence and authority of units of local and regional self-government has been taken over from the Constitution and the existing legislative solution, and the spread of these powers is not the subject of this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-29-0.u11015	Thank you very much, Comrade Lesar. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the students of sociology, the Faculty of Philosophy from Zagreb came to visit the Croatian Parliament and we warmly welcome them. Thank you very much. [[Applause.]] We're continuing the debate. It's time for the esteemed colleague, Josip Leko. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-29-0.u11016	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, gentlemen from the government, colleagues and colleagues. Namely, if the dilemma is direct elections or indirect elections then in principle I can say that I am for direct elections, but not only for representative bodies units of local self-government. So, just for the executive power in self-government, I am for direct elections for the Parliament, for Parliament. That idea, to put it this way, has already lived in this House in the last term of this House. However, before a concrete statement on the bill itself, I think that it should be assessed in what conditions and under what circumstances the social and legal, therefore, arrangements of the system are proposed by law for the direct selection of representatives of the executive authority, i.e. the mayor, mayor and mayor. And what are the advantages and the lack of such a choice under the circumstances of the legal and social life of the Republic of Croatia at the moment. I could say that, except that the country is still in transition and the construction of the legal system in line with the countries of the longer democratic tradition of the countries of the European Union, better rule of law, better legal system in general, more effective trial, more effective protection of individual and collective rights. If we had built legal and social standards that the European Union or the European Union countries have, then no doubt, we would have decided to put in place immediate elections for all representative bodies and for the executive power. But since that is not the case, but since it is not the case, and neither is the Government, nor is the representative of the legislator of this Law offering an analysis of neither the situation nor the claims of the effects of the bill itself or of one and the other which is here on the agenda. It should be examined in practice to make this work so that my proposal is to gradually introduce elections, direct elections to the executive power in representative, i.e. mayor, mayor and mayor, but to decide first to introduce the municipalities. One step at a time. Why? We do not offer a solution, in fact we do not have an answer to a solution that is, which is the democratic control of the directly elected mayor, the mayor, which is a democratic procedure for the exchange of such elected people, and in particular we do not offer what is a judicial protection of the rights of local self-government. Since the legitimacy of such a chosen person, the legitimacy of such a chosen person is far stronger even than the legitimacy of a parliamentary representative. We are all elected on the lists, or most are elected on political parties' lists. And the mayor or mayor of the municipality or mayor who would be directly elected would have behind him the legitimacy of the electoral body. Since relations in the organisation of a territorial and administrative organisation are not completed, they are not built in a conflict between the central state or the state administration or local self-government if the chief is elected directly has the legitimacy of the electoral body I fear that this conflict will escalate if we do not have secured legal protection otherwise and democratic exchanges are quite precisely determined. Since we do not have this, I advocate that both the Proposer and the Government will, in the immediate period until the second reading, make an analysis comparative for countries that have such systems and have them in the European Union, make at least an idea solution to the organisation of state administration and modernisation of state administration that will allow faster introduction into the legal system of the Republic of Croatia and into the political system of direct elections. It is our future, but this future needs to be followed realistically. This will ensure the stability of the system, enable us to check the results of the direct elections and the effects that will be achieved and we will not question them, and they can foresee the entire system of the Republic of Croatia, the legal system because all segments of the rule of law really do not act in a way that we can guarantee that protection will be effectively arranged and secured. My proposal is therefore to get up to the second reading a comprehensive proposal to change step by step so that we can approach without serious consequences in introducing into the legal system of the Republic of Croatia direct elections and direct responsibility for the performance of these functions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-29-0.u11017	Thank you, dear colleague. Replica colleague Lesar, here's your esteemed colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-29-0.u11018	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, I am afraid that such a proposal for a law here would give us today and an objection to creating an inequality of citizens before the Law, because it would allow citizens to have direct elections and not to go to cities because of this proposal, and then perhaps it would be better to consider the issue of direct elections whether there is a referendum decision and not a legislative solution if we are afraid of citizens' will. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-29-0.u11019	Answer to the line, dear colleague Leko, here's your colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-29-0.u11020	Here, simply to be said for the sake of citizens and the public, the inequality of citizens will be ensured if your proposal is accepted because the most representative body of the state is not elected directly, but from a list of political parties. And especially the executive government is not elected directly and in local units we offer immediately and all directly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-29-0.u11021	Thank you, colleague Leko. There's a respected colleague, Jagoda Martic, here's your co-workers.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-29-0.u11022	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. It is undeniable that the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government, which was adopted on 6 April 2001, showed some weaknesses because it did not achieve the basic objectives, which are primarily political stability of representative bodies and the effectiveness of the executive authority. Often, the government crises and repetitive elections in large numbers of local self-government units in some units have even repeatedly repeated elections sufficiently speak for themselves in favour of this statement. We have before us a proposal of the two laws trying to correct this flaw. The basic newspaper in relation to the current Law is that the applicants propose a direct selection of all executive authorities in local units, so municipal mayors, mayors and mayors, as well as the mayor of the City of Zagreb. The promoter believes that this is the key issue which will address the problems identified in the functioning of local and regional self-government, and thus, in the explanation among other things on page 25, says: "The proposals believe that the proposed model of choice and way of organising the executive government will achieve a more successful functioning of the executive in local and regional environments, that political relations will stabilise and make it impossible to repeat the elections more frequently and allow a greater circle of capable people to engage in the political and economic life of the local environments with a focus on personal responsibility." The fact is that the directly elected head of the executive unit of local self-government performs its legitimacy from the directly expressed will of voters and not from the will of political parties and there is no doubt that this is good. What we have in practice now. In practice, we have a variety of political trades and combinations in the main positions of people from the ranks of those political parties who have a minimum number of representatives in the representative body, so it is known that a man from a party who, for example, entered the city council is the head of one or two representatives. And then it is presented as if it were the will of the voters or the electoral body. Of course, such trades and combinations also lead to frequent crises of the government disintegrating coalitions, which again makes it difficult to function normally in the local administration unit. This bill would eliminate the problem, however, now raises some new issues and dilemmas, primarily the relationship between the representative body and the executive authority. The proposer points out that the central issue in the relations between the representative body and the executive authority is the process of recalling the executive man, and this issue is regulated by the proposed Law, however, I believe that it is also a key issue if not more important than this previous one in order to ensure the cooperation of the leading man and the executive authority and the representative body in this system. IS the representative body composed of representatives of political parties going to support the work of mayors, mayors or mayors, or will obstruct the work and thus have a crisis of work and the functioning of local self-government again? In practice, a person in charge may be a member of one party and in a representative body, or in a city council or county assembly, we have another majority party who will then deliberately obstruct the work of the leader. Because actually representative bodies are elected, yet citizens primarily vote in favour of parties and the leaders of this bill we choose by name and last name, means on the basis of his reputation and merit in the local environment. And now the question is, as a society, whether we are politically mature enough for this kind of system of functioning of government, I'm afraid we haven't yet. At the end of the line we do not need to go any further, let's look, enough is enough to look at the representatives here in the Croatian Parliament. We are still performing from strictly party positions, because if that were not the case then the Government and the positioning party would not and the Priors would not reject all proposals of the laws coming from the opposition's ranks, regardless of what is often a matter of quality and for the lives of citizens of good proposals. I hope that one day, I hope that this will come as soon as possible, and we will reach that level of civilization and democratic thinking and behaviour, and then in places where important decisions are made for the prosperity of the country and its citizens, we will decide independently on our political commitment and membership to certain political parties. We will already have the only criterion as the quality of decisions and laws, and what they ultimately mean for the lives of citizens. When we do so, my dilemma about how the elected head of the executive and representative body function and cooperation will be considerably less questionable. Furthermore, the proposal states in Article 41 that the mayor, or mayor, appoints one or more assistants and determines which of them will replace him in his absence or temporary prevention. Article 43 states that the mayor, mayor or mayor may entrust certain tasks from his work to one of his assistants. These provisions are inconsistencies with the direct choice system, because these assistants would actually perform certain functions and tasks in the absence or prevention of the head man or of the tasks for which he has authorized them, without actually being elected, but brought by the will of the head man. Articles 44 and 45 also speak about the establishment of the offices of the mayors, mayors and mayors as an auxiliary and advisory body shall continue to be defined in which way, i.e. who makes the office. I don't think it's clear enough what the office's role is, since we don't have any more under this bill of law. Is this office in any way taking over the role of headship and what body prepares all those acts that actually come to the city council, i.e. municipal, city council or county council? Therefore, it is another misunderstanding that may need to be more precisely defined by the proposed law. and in the end there is no doubt that it is necessary to change the existing Law on Local and Regional Regional Self-Government, in order to achieve greater stability of the representative body and the effectiveness of the executive authority, but also from all this I have said, we see that this bill, which is before us, needs to be completed in order not to open new dilemmas in practice and to become a source of instability again in the functioning of local and regional self-governments. Hence, it is up to us to let him go into the procedure, or another reading. And I believe that on the basis of all this that is being said today, the Proposer will install these remarks and correct everything that we have in some way stated in our discussions that it is not clear enough, or that it can cause new ambiguities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-29-0.u11023	Thank you, dear colleague. It's my dear colleague Ivan Vukic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-29-0.u11024	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. The proposal for a Law on Local and Regional Self-Government of HNS Club Proposer should be commended... by the Proposer, not by regulation of this problem. But at the same time, you wonder why it did not occur earlier at a time when the promoters were in power, so they would certainly and easily spend it in work. That is why I am saying, I remember in 2000 in Crikvenica there was a meeting of mayors and mayors during Minister Ivanisevic and I must admit that at that time the mayors and mayors of the municipalities, no matter what political option they belonged to, almost supported the direct selection of mayors and mayors in a poll by Minister Ivanisevic, and I expected then that the authorities would go to the proposal for this law on the direct selection of mayors and mayors, as well as mayors. As a man who I've spent ten years in local self-government, I must admit that I've said a lot that we need a new Law on Local Self-Government. I am aware that it is a very important law for people's lives, and that its adoption should be accessed really studioically. I therefore welcome the government's opinion that by the next local elections the law should be mentioned and adopted. The bill makes it clear that a single management department is being abolished in units of local self-government that have no headship, which are units below 3,000 inhabitants. The new organisation of the department of service shall be left to units of local self-government in accordance with the Statute. I believe that this proposal would increase the number of employees mainly in local self-government units with a small number of inhabitants whose budget is not enough to even settle salaries for employees of that local self-government unit. The proposal states that the new structure would not have an impact on the state budget, which is certain and true, would not have a financial impact on the state budget, but would certainly burden the budget of the units of local administration and self-government. It is clear from the government's opinion that certain points of the proposed law are not in line with the Croatian Constitution as county names in part of the unit of local self-government, specifically not mentioned as units of regional self-government. In Article 41 of the proposed law, the proposal is for the mayor, mayor or mayor to appoint their own assistants, which is contrary to the basic legal principles of the system that regulates, that persons who change authorities are chosen in the same way as those persons. Here we have in practice both good and bad examples and certainly I said in my debate that I support the direct selection of mayors, mayors and mayors, but certainly with one, let's say a little better fuse between the body of the government and the holder of the government itself. Here is also today a good example in the Evening List, Commissioner Medaković ultimatum of 48 hours, I can say a short example, the Municipality of Plaški, which was part of the town of Ogulin and which, I was then mayor functioned without any problems. With Chief Medaković's arrival as head of the municipality, the lady asked for the separation of water and sewerage in the part and the establishment of her company, which, for her surprise, the assembly then allowed the company. and 1.9. there was the establishment of the company Vrelo in Plaško and water supply management in the municipality of Plaška, today unfortunately residents in the municipality of Plaško, regardless of whether they are Serbian nationalities or Croatian nationalities, have no water, and that is the sad thing when the government is in the hands of one man or one even woman, not even, but one woman who implements, I apologize to all women, who performs their own will, I would like to say that such examples are no longer available, and I think it is also necessary to regulate by law what municipalities that we had yesterday had a request to set up on their territory can establish which institutions, which companies and how can operate these companies in the municipal economy. It is necessary to say that there are still a lot of ambiguities in the draft laws that are visible in the government's opinion, but I also think that there are good ideas that the government will certainly put in place to make its proposal, I hope, and I am almost certain of new local elections. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-29-0.u11025	Thank you very much, fellow Wolfie. A colleague apologized to all the women. So it's just fine. We can move on. Replica, my colleague Lesar has asked and he has. Here you go, dear colleague!
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-29-0.u11026	My colleague Vukic asked me a question as to why we had not already offered such a bill when we were in power. I assume you were at lunch when it came to that, so you didn't hear. The Croatian People's Party Club submitted in 2000 when it passed the law under which the elections were led in 2001 about 50 amendments proposing then direct elections. Secondly, on April 3rd last year, the Croatian Parliament concluded in its first reading a debate on the HNS Club's proposal for direct elections, which unfortunately never came to a second reading, but it was not our fault. However, twice before this proposal proposed the same thing. It's about what we did back then. Secondly, it is not true to suggest that we abolish some unique administrative departments in small municipalities below 3,000 inhabitants where there is no headship because this model predicts that there is no headship anywhere because there are direct elections and no headships. And when you speak and dispute the right to transfer part of the work obligations to the assistants, please read Article 43, which clearly defines that if the head transfers part of the operations to his assistant his responsibility does not stop. I hope he doesn't stop the responsibility of the directly elected leader if someone he entrusted with does something and does it wrong, that's what this is about. But we need to clarify the Institute of Deputys and Assistants. This results in a misunderstanding between you and me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-29-0.u11027	Thank you, dear colleague. The reply to the replica of the esteemed colleague Vukic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-29-0.u11028	Well, I have to say that I agree partly with Mr. Lesar, but I didn't say in my debate that they didn't propose in 2000. I said in my debate that the government had not passed this law and had the necessary quality majority and could bring it.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-29-0.u11029	We're continuing the debate. Dear colleague Kramaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-29-0.u11030	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament! Honored ladies and colleagues! I think that as one of the oldest mayors in Croatia, only by internship, I have quite an experience and that I could say something about these initiatives. If I wanted to make a joke like this, then somewhere in 1994, in 1995, in the second session of the Croatian Parliament, I had proposed the Law on Great Cities which had never been past anything but the first reading, although then some other executive government had said that it would very soon come up with one whole solution, that it was commendable and here it was ten years ago, it still seems to me that the Law on Great Cities doesn't have to be taken this time more seriously by our secretary of state when he said that the government had a serious intention to offer us a whole solution soon. But let's get back to this. Every initiative should be commended, and I commend the initiative of my colleagues from the PGS and the HNS. I'm not going to speculate whether this initiative, this bill, suits someone or doesn't suit anyone. I want to believe that laws are passed in the general interest. I may be naive, but I'm saying, I always hope that when we want to be naughty, we can find certain partial, party, lobbyist and private interests, but I want to believe that this really doesn't have any, which is actually very difficult to counter the mood of citizens, voters because it is those who give a particular political option a certain support or that same support that they deny. But I would like to return as well as yesterday partly to what was happening here in 1992 between Christmas and New Year when Croatia was significantly redesigned and then I was rather skeptical of this redesignation, according to a large number of municipalities, a large number of cities and I say only the county since 1992 are so here to this day remained intact and that number has not changed. And this is how everyone who held onto himself felt that they had to create one municipality or some municipality to promote into the city, and that's what we did here, so now, as we hear yesterday, there are already 427 municipalities, over 120 cities and 20 counties, which again shows what the Germans like to say that reforms are sometimes necessary, but when we enter reforms then the only thing we know for sure is that they will cost but whether they will succeed or not we can't be sure already. And just for those reasons, and then in 1992 and then here in 1994 and all these years when the reform of local self-government and administration was being talked about I was always very skeptical just because it seemed to me that some times it was too fast, that it was done hastily and I said not to question the noble intentions of any promoter. So it seems to me now and here that the initiative is actually welcome. There is one obvious need for political life in Croatia to be personalised. The direct elections are actually one of the best ways of personalizing this choice, that in some way this partyocracy is reduced to as little as possible, but then we also have to be very honest and say that it will be very difficult to defend it if it is valid for the local level, for municipalities, cities and counties, and let's say the same story when elections for parliament come, then we tend to simply put it under the rug and think that the electoral system in that part should not be changed. That's why every time we go into these things I say very radical reforms, then it should be at least try to be consistent. And that's why I'm saying, this can't be a mechanical question whether we're for direct or not. The answer yes and no, it's pretty simple. Of course we can find a whole series of reasons why they should be. I just mentioned some, personalization, antipartite approach more democratically. Some are already talking about the same danger, the dangers of these local powers, the sheriffs in that local pretentiousism. Why not believe in average pretentiousism, for example?- I'm sorry. Why underestimate our electoral body and think that the electoral body actually doesn't recognize certain protagonists in its midst?- I'm sorry. So, I'm afraid that if we argue like that then we'll really come into a vicious circle and I'm afraid that we won't be able to get out of that vicious circle and we'll stay in the same positions and we won't be convincing enough in a simple way. I'm afraid our local self-government and management requires one redesign. Obviously, these 12 years have shown that many things don't work. One of the important things about non-functioning is that large number of re-elections. This clearly means that there are no mechanisms to ensure the stability of certain executive or representative authorities. So then it turns out, it would be very good to calculate exactly how many again elections have been made since 21 May 2001. Recently, ten days ago they were in Sibenik, they were in Biograd at sea, now it will soon seem to me in Orebić, Balaam, and we could list such examples safely over fifty, which clearly shows a high degree of uncertainty, instability of such an existing system of local self-government and administration. And it really needs to be changed. Now, what are these mechanisms that will help ensure a higher degree of stability. That's really a delicate thing that we can't solve on a shortcut. Every initiative is welcome, but we need to work it out. As we must be sure, there is no model that, besides all that, will not lead to these situations that we have. But why am I saying this? It is precisely because this instability, the instability which is almost the trademark of this existing law that they produce among the people, the citizens produce apathy, this apathy results in abstinence, so it is no wonder that less than 29% of them have gone to the elections now in Sibenik. And let's not fool ourselves, that trend will be even more tragic. It's because, you know, this relationship between the public and politics is exactly what it is. Because our perception in public isn't great and it's going to get weaker and weaker. And at the end of the line on one side, let's not just look at the negative trends, they can be positive. When life is stabilised, it will live well, simply a large number of citizens, not too many, they will not be interested in politics, and they will simply allow that luxury to be apolitical, not to go to elections. But I'm afraid it's a little strange for our citizens that 365 days a year are political and when the election day comes, then they decide in some way that, to punish politicians and simply not go to elections and that, in that way, these last, all the fewer elections, especially at the local level, the winning party is the party of abstinence. And that's the fact that we have to face and find the right answers. So what's mine is, on the other hand, this proposal that I've been insisting on since 92 is necessarily this political approach. What we now have when we transfer the national level to the local level, to the least of the community we must really admit that it was not too clever, it is elegant, it is simple, it is the legislator to insist on too much analysis, does not insist too much insight into demographic movements, into economic movements, but simply then a model is prescribed then who fits or doesn't fit, it doesn't matter, but it's just unacceptable that the municipalities of a thousand, two animals have the same model as they have big and medium towns. And I'm really saying, after all, it can go regionally as in many countries there is a distinction between I don't know, developed north or less developed south or... and some position that exists for these small communes, or municipalities where they can be promoted, where they don't go, to go to a gathering after all. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And what's also very important is it's not just decentralisation as decentralisation, if there isn't a financial subport, then I'm afraid that it's still going to remain that it's important to have a good relationship with the finance minister, yesterday Mr. Church, today with Mr. Shucker and some other ministers who, in some ways, can in some ways, very volunteer can then, by that principle I love, don't like to stand, come on, private and political, some party or some other reason that some things and some cities, municipalities and regions can help and some actually be permanently cut off. And then just for the end. It is very important whether this set of laws no matter who does it, the government or any of us here will follow the intensities of the European division on local self-government or we will actually only have local self-government, one full mouth before the elections, and then when it comes, we will still stick to that state administration and then who is closer to the fire it gets better and warmer. And I'm afraid that's where all these dangers are actually hidden, otherwise I say... a proposal. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-29-0.u11031	Thank you, colleague Kramarić. It's my honest colleague Jurjević. Here's my colleague Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-29-0.u11032	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. There is no doubt, after two days of talking about local self-government that this is a problem that we are all interested in, it is also no secret that decentralisation is one of the main problems in Croatia. There is also no one here who is not ready to publicly fight in the chest, as it is for decentralisation, as it is for developing a local self-government, etc., but also the fact that we are ready to legalise whenever we need to take a step to achieve those ideals or those ideas that we all have declared. It's also no secret and there's no need to hide that even the last government didn't deal with the problems of centralism and centralization, and there's no big argument when you say why you didn't do it. That's no reason not to do it now. It's not, it may be a criticism against the previous government which my party was one of the key ones, but it's not to you, now I'm telling the parliamentary majority it's no excuse not to do it now. It doesn't matter if someone didn't do it, it's not like I'm telling you the reason why you're still standing on it. Why am I saying this? That's what I'm saying because I think the proposal of my colleagues from HNS and PGS is a good proposal. He's good at least as much as he can get us off the point we're at and from which we won't be able to move forward. Well, I'm for it, I'm convinced this will go to another reading, that there's no one here who would be against this proposal going to another reading, and that the government that, I'm talking about the current government that told us several times, its representatives, the secretary of state, etc., that they're willing to go to one full reform of local self-government and that they're willing to go with a law similar. Let him come out with that proposal and, together with the second reading, come out with his proposal, when there's a second reading of this law and then we're discussing two proposals. Government and this one. So let's find what we agree on together, what will be good, what will be best. This really shouldn't be any party issue, we're talking about the fate of Croatia in... about the citizens. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It says here they don't go to local elections, they're not motivated. And maybe they'd be much more motivated if they didn't vote for party lists than for specific people. So come on, let's do something to motivate the citizens. Yesterday we discussed the requirement here that parts of the two municipalities, therefore, from the city of Poreč and Vodice, should be formed in Tarvabriga and Tribunj municipalities. We also came across a wall. Although all the legal assumptions are fulfilled from the will of the citizens, from the will of these cities, the assembly of cities of will, therefore, the city councils, from the will of the county assemblies to the opinion of the Ministry of Finance, and again we won't say because there is no full further reform because it is a small example, because it is partial, because it is cosmetic and it is the greatest cosmetics when it remains the same. We're always talking about the future that we can't reach. It's to me, we can tell what utopian consciousness is that we're fighting for what's not yet there, but please let's do something and specifically get off this point where we are. What's the point of all of us? Well, obviously, the point is to approach the management of the fate of the citizens, the citizens themselves. That's the intensity we're heading towards. In that light and in that context, I see this bill, and therefore I personally support it. I support it because it provokes a conversation that will probably force the government who is willing to make such a move and declares that no matter how complicated the reform of the entire system is about it. So I guess the government will also be forced to move away from the dead spot and take that step. And let it come up to a second reading of this proposal with our proposal and we should discuss two proposals for the second time. Government and the proposal of these parties. That's what I'm saying because here we all say it so, cleverly, it's all nice, but the worst thing is if it stays the same. In the name of that change, I appeal to support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-29-0.u11033	Thank you, dear colleague Jurjevic, it is up to you, dear colleague Ivanis. Here's your colleague Ivanish. Give up? Thank you very much. It's my dear colleague Vladimir Plesko's turn. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-29-0.u11034	Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. First, by looking at these proposals of the Law on Local Self-Government and Elections, the mayor should acknowledge that these existing laws are not the happiest solution that local self-government units have had, that there have been many missing things in these laws that have led to doubt and municipal councils, city councils, but also county assemblies. And mostly on the part-time work, but also on how to choose the councillors themselves. We know for ourselves how many problems there have been, how many times the opinion has been asked of units of local self-government towards the House of Representatives that some things through the procedure of the House of Representatives and resolution are meant in authentic interpretations. I also believe that this is precisely why, for all these reasons, should not be rushed here today with solutions and proposals for the new Law on Local Self-Government and the election of local self-government leaders because in my opinion, one broad debate should give all possible aspects of such changes that in the future could have a more lasting impact on local self-government and on the meaning of the people in the area of these counties, cities and municipalities. By accepting, we accept this proposal as a start of entry means in the overall settlement of legislation for local and regional self-government, and I continue to believe that it is very good that they are connected, connected the debate on both proposals, because through one related debate we should not talk specifically about one legislative proposal, and in particular about another legislative proposal. I would just like a few tips that I have written down by reading these legal proposals and which, in which I have seen some illogicalities and given here in my debate as a pain to a possible new law and that means the promoter can discuss and view these suggestions that we have today as observations. First, I would like to comment on Articles 19 and 20. Laws on local, regional, regional self-government, along with the sub-assemblies, but not the provision of municipal and other waste. While Article 19 of this Regulation means that the obligation of the unit of local self-government, municipalities and cities is to provide municipal and other waste in Article 20 where the county does not have it. I believe that this should also be in Article 20, because we all know how much trouble there is today in the areas of municipalities and cities about the disposal of municipal waste, without saying what literally means this second part of it, and that's another waste under which different things can be practically up to nuclear waste and so on. I don't think it should go to one part of the regulation decided by a municipal or city council. Also, Article 32 of the same Law provides for a period of 30, 30 days. I believe that this deadline should be increased if there is a re-invoking of the constitutional session for at least fifteen more days because we have seen here on the ground that there are certain problems when a large number of local self-government units are to be established, given that the heads of state bodies who have to attend it cannot reach it after the comprehensive elections at all these sessions and there may be some problems. Also in Article 40, 41, I believe that it should be mandatory to introduce that the deputy, that there is both a deputy and a list of directly elected mayors, mayors and mayors, because someone cannot assume certain responsibilities of the municipal, city council or county, without passing the election procedure. Also in Article 43 relating to previous articles of a person who has nothing to do with a representative body may have full powers, but may also convene and act through the work means offices, commissioners, mayors, heads' offices and may adopt certain provisions, and this right has not been given meaning through elections. We can assume here that such a person can practically be from another unit of local self-government means not from the territory he decides on, and I think that it needs to be regulated correctly. Also, the Office of the Head of Local Self-Government in Article 44 of the Law and Obligations of the So-Selected Office, if so proposed, means directly elected leaders who are the right and, rights and obligations. I think that perhaps, in the subsequent bill of law, we should think about staying and the body we call headship today and that this body means on the proposal of the mayor, the mayor accepts a representative body of the local self-government unit. And when we look at the Law of Choice, we should also mention several illogicalities that occurred through this proposal, which is, for example, in Article 4, paragraph 3. Since the disbandment by the government's decision or by the resignation of most councilors, which is also not clearly clarified. Also, Article 4, paragraph 5, why is everything not generated in this Selection Act? Because, on the one hand, if we have the Law on the selection of the mayor, why does disband also mean stopping, termination of the term of office, that person is not generated by the Law of Choice? I will also return again as part of the article, under the Law on Elections, which is in Article 5(1) and paragraph 2, there is no headship under the Bill's proposal, and here in this Act, the Bill's proposal exists. Is that where you were thinking and predicting the meaning of the members of the office? What concerns me especially about possible future laws, which is article 15 and the question of the coalitions before the elections themselves. I believe that at local levels, it should begin to think about abolishing the coalition before the elections, rather than making it into the elections on its own, each party on its own, and after that, after the elections to sign any coalition, coalition agreements. Also in Article 16, and in view of the parliamentary elections, I must note that I believe that the number of signatures for independent candidates is too small or that we can also think about small parties. It will happen that there will be a host of small parties in the local elections that will ultimately have no more than 2.3% of the votes won, and it will mean 20 or 30 parties that will compete, and in this way I believe that it will simply not be expressed the voter's will in the right way. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth I must remind the law of choice of one illogicality. It is strictly said here that the holder of the list is the first person on the list while on the other hand there is a Law on the selection of parliamentary representatives where it is spoken and where it is not decided, so I believe that perhaps even in this Bill proposal, it should not definitely rule that the first one on the list should be the bearer of the list. And another direct political assessment that should be, which is in Article 30 directly, means two-round, two-round elections. I think you should think about choosing the mayor, the mayor and the mayor only going in one circle because we can interpret it in a double way. Someone in the first round can get 40% of the votes and has not passed, and since in other circles, fewer people respond to elections there 50% can be less than 40% in the first round of elections. So the same thing should take care of. And one technical thinking, which is in Article 38(4), where the election committees and the presidents of the electoral committees are discussed. I don't think it should be written that there has to be legal professions. I think it's enough to sign up that it's a VSS that means high professional training regardless of what college it is, because we know ourselves that we sometimes have too few lawyers on the ground who would be presidents of the election boards. I support the government's proposal because of all these indeterminateities, and I think it is necessary to carry out a broad debate and normally make a good legislative proposal, because in the future, it will mean getting into the interests of the local self-government unit and I would point out in particular that it should not be considered in a way that such a bill is adopted 35 days before its full application as it was in the previous elections for local self-government when we all remember together that in the National Journal it passed the law 35 days before the day of the election. I think it was embarrassing then for the then ruling coalition, and I hope it doesn't happen again today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-29-0.u11035	Thank you, colleague Plesko. It's time for my dear colleague Opačić. Here you go, pals. You have your word.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-29-0.u11036	Mr. President, gentlemen of the government, colleagues and colleagues. I think it's a good thing we opened today thanks to the opposition clubs and their draft laws on local self-government. I think that local self-government is very important, it solves citizens' problems at local level, where these problems are most visible and where most of them are, in fact, the easiest solution, is much easier to solve at local level than when they are solved from the state level. I think it is absolutely necessary to pass a new law, it needs to be passed as soon as possible, because the elections regular for the local authorities are waiting for us next year somewhere in May. Therefore, it would be good not to follow one bad practice from before, which is that election laws are passed for the last 5 minutes. It is certainly in these changes to make certain solutions that will help the citizens to get as much expression as possible, that citizens really have the head of their city, municipal and county congregations, and that is to say mayors, mayors and mayors of those people they think are most capable of, that they will best protect their interests. Because it is truly unacceptable to have people in these places today who may have one or two councilmen or are therefore elected as individuals to such a city council. So it's absolutely about people who have come to these places by political trade alone, and it's not about the will of citizens. A law like this would also prevent what we now have, which is in many units of local self-government very often because of certain trade and certain relations within the units of local self-government or rather representative bodies. I think we have quite enough arguments for now and our knowledge of how local self-government works, which is not good in it and that we can therefore bring quality changes to the law, primarily in order for local self-government to work much better and better than it has done so far. Here I primarily think of the need to reduce a very large number of municipalities and cities, but I also think of the county. The question arises how central government can help improve local self-government. I think it can help by decentralising some of the jobs, so handing certain jobs over to local self-government, but also returning some of it and leaving some of the financial resources to the local self-government so that it can finance all this together. Unfortunately, in this HDZ government, access is something different, in this government we obviously think, and that's how we have arguments that it's actually best when, if HDZ is in the government that HDZ is in power in local self-government units. That's why it's very difficult to wait for the amendments to the law, so it's hard to wait for May next year. It's hard to wait for the elections, and that's why they're taking any kind of action that I think the Central Government really represents a precedent, and it's never happened that way before. And that's why I'm here to make the arguments for everything I've just said. This is about the government's drive and specifically the defence minister who put himself in the service of the destruction of a local government, the destruction of power in the city of Požega by defence minister Mr Berislav Roncevic. Namely, 19. 4. called, the topic is local self-government, so a session of the City Council with a start at 13 o'clock, the president of the City Council, who is neatly and head of the Office for Defence in Požega, was called to the same day at 13 o'clock in the city of Zagreb. The meeting was called again today at 13pm for the same man, so the president of the City Council was sent by the defence minister to call for the defence minister to come to Požeg today at 12:30 to visit the Defence Office and, of course, ask the city council president to be in his office. That's what the City Council reacted to, and they called the council this morning at 8:00. You will not believe this, but Minister Berislav Roncevic again sends a fax call saying and informs the gentleman concerned that he will arrive today in Požega at 7.30. So it's really unheard of to have a minister of defense who I think has much more valuable and smarter and more important work to do with the destruction of a local government. This mode of work is not something that contributes to the development of local self-government, this unfortunately shows that the central government is, in the worst and most harshest way possible, mixed in what is the will of the electorate until the re-election takes place and that the same electoral body regardless of what someone thought of their will, does not say that the City Council will look different than it does today. Today, Mr. Berislav Roncevic was neither in Požega nor in Slavonski Brod, but he has done his party task neatly and it would not be so terrible that everything that will happen most likely in that city that people go to elections again, to early elections, it is completely irrelevant, citizens have the right if the government does not function, go to elections and say their opinions. However, if the entire government and one minister were to be put into office of the destruction of local authorities is something that has never happened in the Republic of Croatia, so much about local self-government in our country.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-29-0.u11037	Correction of an incorrect quote, dear colleague byte. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-29-0.u11038	Thank you very much. The representative said in the last part of her debate that Mr. Roncevic was engaged in the destruction of power in the city of Požega. That's an incorrect quote. Because today, as far as I know as the city council of the city of Požega, the Ministry of Defence visited Slavonski Brod, Požega and Osijek, so that Požega is not the exception, and I suppose the Ministry has the right to tour the area. However, as far as the city of Požega is concerned, this City Council has not been operational for a year and today, at a session called as well as a series of times backwards, it was from 20 council members present at 7. So the gentleman the colleague was talking about wasn't present at the quorum, because here I don't know which times three months it's been fulfilled that the council can't meet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-29-0.u11039	Thank you. Injury of my colleague Opačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-29-0.u11040	Mrs. Byte hurt Article 209. The Rules of Procedure, because she didn't correct the incorrect assumption. Namely, I have a memo here saying that the defence minister Mr. Berislav Roncevic will be coming to visit your administration.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-29-0.u11041	You're both right. It's not about hurting the Rules of Procedure. We also have a correction to the incorrect allegations, a respected colleague, Bagaric. Here's a correction to the incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-29-0.u11042	Mr. Vice President, I think it's really incorrect of a colleague to say that Mr. Roncevic has fulfilled his party duty. You know that Mr. Roncevic is acting on a duty that is very demanding to all of us, a minister who is actually seeking full engagement in the time of harmonising all of this on our path to the European Union and NATO. Therefore, he has every right to change his terms, his captainship, to adapt it, to announce, to change, and thus to fulfil no party duty.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-29-0.u11043	Thank you very much for correcting the incorrect quote. I'm afraid we're just making things more complicated. It's time for our esteemed colleague, Bisserka Perman, to discuss it. Here you go, buddy!
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-29-0.u11044	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues! At the beginning of my debate, I would like to say that I support every positive amendment of existing laws and so on the ideas that are covered by these legal proposals. First of all, I have a direct selection of local leaders, i.e. municipal heads, mayors and mayors, but I have a few questions or my own reflections. The proposal for Law No 40 on Local and Regional Self-Government in Chapter V. 2 of Articles 46 to 48 of pages 11 and 12 refers to the mistrust of the Head of the Unit of Local or Regional Self-Government. I think the procedure should certainly be provided for, but it should be simplified and cheaped as a matter of fact, so that the budget of the local self-government unit can be submitted at all. According to this proposal, citizens may need to go to the polls, as many as four times a year, which, with great cost, would also cause a large abstinence of voters. I also think that a maximum number of mandates should be set to which the local leader can be elected to avoid the appearance of so-called. Sheriff, we've been cleaning this up a lot in the last few days, and today we've heard it during the debate. So to avoid the appearance of local sheriffs as they are called in their comments by journalists who could turn the local community into their own private ranch with unlimited authority. It is my suggestion that these should be two mandates except in the case of special merit for the local community if its representative body is shown to do so by consensus. In the proposal for a law No 41 on local elections in Chapter II. On pages 8 and 9, respectively, Article 15(1) states that lists for the selection of representative bodies and candidates for the selection of municipal mayors, mayors, mayors and mayors of the City of Zagreb are proposed by political parties registered in the Republic of Croatia and voters. I think that provision should be specified in a way that is complemented by adding a provision to the political party's proposal that the political party must have its own branch or organisation in the local self-government unit. Why? So a party in a local environment can only have a Commissioner and possibly a couple of members and run their list and candidate for a local leader without real support in the form of a list of signatures, support of the local population and thus multiple the number of registered lists and candidates and thus the costs of implementing the election and in fact without actually being able to be elected. I therefore believe that for all candidates for local leaders, a list of signatures should be collected whether the candidate is independent or party, with the party's signing process much easier in view of the membership they have, of course, if they have in the middle. And a purely practical question. Why does Article 5 of the proposal only or precisely provide for male and female gender equality lawyers and deputy lawyers when we know that a woman can be on any of the above-mentioned duties. As regards the IDS proposal of Law No 60 on local elections, however, only one principled remark. Since the applicant went on to amend Article 5(2) of the applicable law, I believe that the whole text of the paragraph should have been adapted to the applicable Law on the State Administration System, or to its latest amendments and additions, and, instead of the Deputy Minister, to include the Secretary of State as well as the Advocates and Advocates for Gender and Child Equality and their Vice-Presidents. And finally, as the atmosphere is based on the opinion of the Government and the predecessors in the debate is obviously such that these proposals will probably not go through another reading, and I am sorry for that hope that today's debate will also contribute to the quality of the government's proposal, which has been announced several times these days. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-29-0.u11045	Thank you, dear colleague. The final five minutes on behalf of the HDZ Club, respected counterpart Markovanovic. Here you go, buddy!
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-29-0.u11046	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and fellow MPs! And at the end of the day's debate on these two important laws and to encourage a series of quality discussions because there were very high-quality, very detailed discussions here, which is for every commendation. I'd like to respond to a few dilemmas. Namely, the debates of HDZ Club representatives were based on an analysis of the proposed laws, stressing its shortcomings. In no word did we reject the direct selection of mayors, mayors and mayors. Secondly, any serious and professional government would listen to laws and not run off with its proposal before the time. I think it's also commendable and until the election is over a year. I don't think it's that urgent. We remember when the law was passed before the last election, I think a month ago, somewhere. I believe it won't be like that, but now it will be, what, 15 days. Okay. Thirdly, the Croatian Democratic Community is not afraid, although my distinguished colleague Lesar is insinuating any type of electoral law but we are concerned about the unserious spending of local budget money as a consequence of possible frequent elections. We analyse the granting of great powers to the mayors, mayors and mayors, possible abuse. And finally, here's to commending it, though, that this is where it's headed. Once again, I thank you here on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Club for all clubs for very serious and thorough debates, and I think that still because of the considerable shortcomings they have seen from many clubs, we will not support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-29-0.u11047	Thank you very much. Correction of an incorrect quote, colleague Lesar. Here you go, dear colleague!
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-29-0.u11048	I really did not insinuate that HDZ is a fear of direct elections, counterpart Markovanovic. That wasn't me. I asked who was afraid of direct choices and I didn't insinuate it was you. That's one thing. If you think I was thinking of you then I can't stop you from thinking that.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-29-0.u11049	Thank you very much. Do the proposing representatives want to take the final word? Yeah. On behalf of the representative of the promoter, Vesna Pusić, Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-29-0.u11050	Thank you, Mr. Vice President! Representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! One of the characteristics of the debate on these laws since it is already being conducted twice in the two compositions of parliament is that the discussions on this subject and in the previous assembly of parliament when we led it and in this extremely high-quality and interesting. Obviously, the theme itself has been imposed as one topic that first seems relevant to people. They've also been introduced as a topic that a lot of people have experience and have something to say. And even when one is saddened by every topic in the House when it is somewhat a victim of political facts most minorities, some preconceived views. Even when the price is paid, there are still unusually many interesting suggestions and observations that are always being discussed. For this reason, I thank you all, on behalf of the promoter of the club HNSA PGS, for your comments. And only three elements seem important to me that I would like to point out here in the end. It is clear that the fundamental relationship or fundamental problem of the relationship between the executive authority and the council, or the local assembly, is a real problem. And that it should be solved in the best way possible. And that's why there are different suggestions, and even in today's debate, there's been an expression of different suggestions. Obviously, it also seems to me that despite the almost universal consensus being created, it is a direct choice of mayors, mayors and mayors, so the executive authorities at local and regional level. What there is almost universal agreement about it is that it is good, that people want it to give them some sense of real choice rather than just supporting parties at local level at which it has a much greater significance and a particular name and a much greater meaning than a general political project that the party carries with it. Regardless of the fact that there is practically universal harmony, there is no doubt about it, and if we look at today's debate a little bit, it's obviously a big step. That this is a big step and one political decision, on how to develop the institutional development of the Croatian state. It carries a different opinion with it. About what's institutional to look like and where we're going in the future. In the development of the Croatian state. First, because it changes the relationship between political responsibility. The relationship between political responsibility in cases where it is voted for party lists, each individual or individual on that list. Political responsibility in the front row is according to its own party. The party put you on that list, it was the party's decision that resulted in your position on the list. Therefore, whether you will be on the list next time and on which meth you will depend in the first row on how your party is in charge of your work. This model where the mayors, mayors and mayors are directly elected, your political future and your political destiny as a political candidate as a local politician depends on how satisfied your fellow citizens were. And it's a fundamental shift in understanding what political responsibility is. That's not what I'd say for that it takes a certain courage to do it without a certain amount of courage. Because this check has a lot of elements on which political maturity and political development are based and a very high level of political culture are needed, that both the results and the ability of man and the education of man that is being built into this work are really valued. And it's not pushed, so maybe you can even talk with a big skeptic about us being on that level. But I'm sure we'll never get to that level if we don't take the first step. And they were right that many of them here were saying that they gave it to you as strangers' benefits. I'm not sure. I'm not sure that it benefits us as strangers, perhaps the benefits may not depend upon the interference we've given us if the party you as a party anyone as a party mobilize quality and capable people at local level to run on our behalf or with our support are cadniding. But what is certainly useful is a step in the development of political culture in Croatia, according to the final understanding that it is a responsibility directly to the people who have chosen these leaders and who are obliged to account for those four years. Doing some work for them. And finally, to make an account in the next election. It has a conjecture to change the way we even think about what the elections are, that the elections are not a one-day event, which has nothing to do with how we're living for the next four years. It's that the way we behave in elections has direct consequences on what school looks like, what a kindergarten we have a water line or we don't. We have a road or we don't, taxes come back to us in the municipality and the city or go somewhere unknown to the state and to a higher level. DA has direct consequences for that. Therefore, this shift in response is not only a change at local level, but also a step in the development of political culture in Croatia. And in our opinion, it's important if we want to move forward if we want to take that step further extremely important. The second element is also that came out here from the debate, and it's obviously a bit surprising to me, too, quite a narrowly non-distribution of g lion's purpose and the main functions of local and regional self-government. At the local and regional level, the council assembly is not parliaments, parliament is a legislative body at the state level. If we start looking at every representative institution in this way, then every gathering that decides to start looking at anything, every set of representatives who decide anything. We'll start to see it as a parliament. Parliament is a legislative body at national level. At local level, representative bodies shall not adopt laws, representative bodies shall represent the interests of individual groups or of the born at local level. Which executive power the executive authority must meet, find a way to integrate into those programmes that the executive authority at local level implements. But local executives have the main task of enabling normal as best as possible with services as equipped with daily life at local level as possible. And there are representatives to remind all interests of all demands for all needs of the local environment. But it's not about making laws. These aren't parliaments. These are representatives of different requirements, which appear at local level, which worry that no one remains unforgettable, that no one's needs and interests are pushed into the apartment and then pushes only one group or one interest is favored, and everything else is marginalized. This is the role of representative bodies at local level and it is therefore important to remember that their main function and here their main function is absolutely undermining and should be through the suggestions that have been here today and perhaps additional ideas that we can get from other sources, what is better and smarter to edit, but this is the fundamental and purpose and purpose of such an immediate choice in relation to the councils. It is obvious, of course, but it is not just a matter of the European Convention, it is not only about local self-government, it is not just a matter of knowledge that has come into its development of different European countries that is in our interest and that it is in the interest of the citizens of this country to implement the principle of subsidiarity. The principle of subsidiarity should be implemented not because anyone has recommended it but because it is most practical. This means that everything you can do locally, solve locally, and only what cannot be solved locally goes to a higher level. Therefore, the idea of this principle is not to comply with some of the recommendations, some of the regulations that other countries have introduced for themselves. The idea of this principle is to make life more quality, better and easier for ourselves in our own country, people who live and in 80% of cases all of the contacts with the country that they have in life have just over local self-government. From there it is taught whether the state works or not, whether they have rights or not, that they recognize whether the state recognises them as people of dignity, as citizens or recognizes them as numbers to be carried out and learns from it that they have authority over them and they have responsibility towards their own community and towards their own environment. This model of choice allows us to take one step on that path. It was our intention, and it is still our intention to complete this first reading with the possibility and recommendation that further ideas be given through a broad public debate, to introduce the Croatian public to these proposals and similar proposals that go in the same direction, to prepare these laws for a second reading. If alternative proposals arise, of course, we also talk about them and find the best possible solution, and that this debate that has been held today, which has been high-quality and useful, does not go into anything but to be incorporated into one quality proposal based on this debate can be further drawn up from what has been proposed here today and today and that we end up with not only more high-quality laws that will refer to the direct elections of the mayors, mayors and mayors but also one step towards a different understanding of the political responsibility that these laws at the lowest level, but the most effective level they also bear with them. Thank you all very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-29-0.u11051	Thank you, dear colleague. My colleagues and colleagues have concluded the debate on the Proposal for a Law on Local and Regional Self-Government, then on the Proposal for a Law on the selection of members of the representative bodies of the units of local and regional (regional) self-government and the selection of municipal mayors, mayors and mayors of the City of Zagreb Law No. 41, then the same proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the selection of members of the representative bodies of units of local and regional (regional) self-government. 62. We'll probably vote on these laws tomorrow.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-29-0.u11052	Proposal for a law on local and regional self-government, first reading, P.Z. No. 40 The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the Committee on Local and Regional Regional Self-Government as a home working body, I am voting on the following conclusion: The proposal for a law on local and regional (regional) self-government proposed by the Club of Representatives of the CNS, PGS, for the reasons set out in the opinion of the Government, is not accepted. Who's in favour of this proposal's conclusion? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? I find that with 80 votes in favour, 13 against and 1 abstention, the proposed conclusion has been reached.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-29-0.u11287	We move to the next item of the agenda – Proposal to amend and supplement the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament The decision is proposed by the Committee for the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system. You received the motion for an act at the session. When making this decision, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply, Articles 155 to 157. Rules of Procedure. Does the proposaler's representative want to further explain? Yeah. The proposal will be further explained by Mr Drazen Bosnjakovic, chairman of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system. Here you go, Mr. President of the Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-29-0.u11288	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. You have before you a decision on amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Croatian Parliament. As you yourselves know in the previous session of the Assembly, we have received in fact the task as a Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system to amend the provisions of the Rules of Procedure primarily related to how to ask parliamentary questions. It is obvious that the provisions that have been valid so far have no longer been met and such a crowd has been created on parliamentary issues, and I think that the way that was before that, some midnight notices or something that was not actually in line with the Rules of Procedure at the time, which was also relevant to the parliamentary issues. So we asked and asked all the club representatives to deliver their proposals, we looked at and what parliamentary practice is in other countries, we put it all on the table a little bit, and we came up with a solution here that is before you. I have to say the first version of me was that we don't go to any numbers and quotas in clubs, but we go to what's clear to everyone to ask a question so how's he doing? However, one majority opinion prevailed on the board and among the clubs to determine exactly how much each club could ask questions in the morning, and in fact it was already in this way and it worked, and we tried to actually transpose it into the provisions of this Rules of Procedure. We were particularly sensitive, and we were careful that the right to ask questions are also held by colleagues who do not have a club, representatives of national minorities, and we give them a certain priority in order to be seen. The way order is determined is the draw, the main role will be to have our secretary plenary sessions here and I can't say, you will evaluate and time will show if this decision is accepted as it will work, but it seems to me that at this session it was quite correct. The ideal system and the same system as we saw that there is one system that works in two or three countries simply doesn't exist. An ideal system where we could all ask a question within four hours, too. This is one system that's possible, where we're actually asking means a little bit more than 40 questions, and I actually think that we're all getting a chance to ask a question. Also, as we regulate, we regulate the matter of pause. The matter of a break so far has actually been based on good practices in this House, but the provisions in the Rules of Procedure have not been made. Now what we're proposing, we're proposing a system like this, means that club presidents, I see there's an amendment here to be club representatives, to ask for a break, to explain briefly the reasons why, and the president is obliged to set a break at really three minimum limits when, in our opinion, he shouldn't approve. We have indeed gone with the most minimum restrictions that the break is always tolerated and always tolerated and that whenever the president is asked to appoint it, we consider these three restrictions reasonable and that we can accept them. My colleagues and colleagues, I'm here, I'm going to answer the questions, and if there's still some need in this debate, we're going to have 9 o'clock tomorrow, here I am, Vice President, an opportunity to report to the Committee on the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure that we're going to have a meeting tomorrow at 9:00. So if there's any need, we'll go with our own amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-29-0.u11289	Thank you, Mr. President. Do the representatives of the working bodies want to take the floor? Yeah. President of the Spatial Planning Committee. Here you go, Mr. Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-29-0.u11290	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and fellow MPs. The Committee on Spatial Planning, environmental protection, supported the proposal that we also received with one amendment. And that is to allow that committee to participate and external members in the work. And for this reason, the growing importance of civil society, the desire for science to be present in the debate over the spatial plan that we consider to be one of the significant and difficult, but also the interest of the work of both the government and this Parliament. And especially, if we point out, that important work in front of all of us will be in front of us for the next four years, as Croatia, as a candidate for membership in the European Union. And we believe that the outsiders would in principle contribute to this committee's work, so our proposal for an amendment is that, as other working bodies have done in the House. We have six additional members, two from civil society, two from science and two from professional associations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-29-0.u11291	Comrade Markov, what are you reporting for? On behalf of what committee? And on behalf of the Tourism Committee, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-29-0.u11292	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. In teaching on this subject and the Committee on Tourism discussed the Rules of Procedure and also adopted a proposal for amendments to the Rules of Procedure and I also, given the intensity of tourism, given the requirements of the associations that have appeared within the framework of tourism, given the fact that tourism does not have its own ministry, also supported the idea of external members who should assist and in this regard strengthen the overall activities of this Committee. He also suggested correcting a long-standing mistake, but it is always time to correct those mistakes, which is that the Tourism Committee is not the competent committee to discuss privatisation in tourism. We think and hold that this is really not acceptable, and in this sense the Committee supported the introduction of this novel into the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. Well, this is also how I refer first of all to the parent board who is proposing these amendments and the additions of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, that it is also made known as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-29-0.u11293	Thank you, fellow Markov. We don't have any more records on behalf of the working bodies. I'm opening a debate. The first in line on behalf of the Club of Libra is a respected colleague, Herman. Here you go, dear colleague Herman.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-29-0.u11294	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, president of the Committee. Of course, it is good that the Committee has made an effort and formulated proposals or proposals for amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure and thus tried to face all of us with the fact that several really institutes in the Rules of Procedure need to be prepared. I wouldn't say change, dress up. The critical points are, of course, all who are more than one term of office, more than this term in this House know well that these critical points are current in the morning, sometimes the current hour. And, of course, often because of the abuse and use of the rest institutes. However, this proposal, along with all the greetings for its well-meaning and effort, seems insufficient to me, that the joint proposals of more clubs have been different, and some have followed the very good experiences of this Parliament and then, in particular, the experiences of European parliaments. And it seems that there was actually a solution that was more or less expressed, unfortunately, the attitude of the political forces in this House, in this session. Of course, that's not good in our court. We think it's a solution that won't last long, no matter what on the surface in that first layer looks like it's a solution that's going to make it impossible and certainly it's going to be, night wakes. It is humane in the proposal, but not in the spirit of good, I will repeat the rules, however, of those rules that can be called the culture of parliamentary life or the culture of the relationship between opposition and positions. In fact, the proposal, which is given, is about 40, as it is said, and a few more questions, it is quite evident that, in fact, because of the relationship between the club that has three members, the right to one question and then the next, with Dealer 4. As you go, you will simply come up with the number that the gravity in this right to ask a question belongs to a model position. It is, I will repeat again, beyond the traditions of what belongs to the good experience of parliamentary life and what is simply beyond the scope of the relationship of positions, opposition or dapaca, the relations of representative power, executive power. I will mention three of the principles that are present today in what is called a European experience in parliamentary life and these principles are simply a matter of consulting some of the accompanying experiences. It's not speaking by heart, and then we can do these examples, and then what we can say is that principles are illustrated by examples. So, what are these principles? First, the more prominent role of the opposition than the authorities in asking questions. Second, the exchange of opposition and authorities in asking questions. And the third principle, respecting the size of individual clubs when asking questions. So, if that's the case, then we're just ready to show, and these are the principles from, I said, comparative states in European parliaments that, let's say, two models appear. It is one that says that in determining the procedure, many parliaments are handling the need for balance in favour, of course, and, of course, of this principle, the opposition, and a number of questions are being given to all parliamentary groups in order to ensure that the opposition is given time to ask questions and to seek information from the government. Another model they call Westminster, it looks like this. Why Westminster? Because it's the English Parliament of Westminster, so that's what this model is called. Forgive me for teaching, so says the model, after which, the opposition leader always asks the first question. Who's the leader of the opposition? The one who's the club president of the strongest or the biggest opposition. The largest must not be the strongest but largest opposition parties. So three more issues are asked from the strongest or corrections of the largest opposition club, after which smaller opposition clubs are exchanged so that representatives of the ruling party get several questions before the end of the time for asking questions. Of course it doesn't have to mean it's the best model but one of the examples is so-called. Westminster model. As far as Slovenia is concerned, it enters the European Union in two days, prepares a celebration in Maribor and has the next model, probably the reasons for satisfaction, you see the entry into Europe without fear of opposition, and there they are in Maribor celebrating. The need for MPs to come to order says this rule from different representative groups and the need to provide more space for opposition MPs here is the rule from the National Assembly of Slovenia. The next example, Germany's Bundestag has several forms, so now for enquiries, the government's examination, the acute clock, everywhere, applies the principle that the opposition in the first plan is in a certain relationship, the Austrian Parliament, the current clock as one form, the clock for issues as a second form, so more possibilities then the opposition again. Through these different variations this parliament has. The Dutch Parliament also lays down the basic principle of the order of question to be asked by the President on the basis of statements of parliamentary issues in which the subject matter must be clearly indicated. Here's what we have, in our proposal in the Committee's proposal, this is okay, but it's still said that the number of questions raised by the opposition in relation to the issues raised in the larger number. So we're free to suggest simply that in the draw that's going to be in some kind of draw draw, that's the same thing as draw, draw, so pull, let's pull together three or four draw right now. So the extraction that, whether this is enough or we're still working on the duet, so the relationship in these 40 issues, outside that circle are issues that belong independently as we call it an independent agent, especially on our own, so these are individuals so to speak, these are entities, some strange collectiveisms watch over me here now,... okay, this experience also exists as a single question, here remains 40 with this then 40 and something more, so these 40 we're free to suggest and without wanting to take over that relationship as 21-19 and surprise me and accept the relationship 22-18 in favour of the opposition. All other rules can be respected. It is in the spirit of parliamentaryism, it is in the spirit that MPs of the position do not hold a candle to the government as it is said in a picturesque and metaphor but in fact, the representatives of the opposition get the right to criticism rather than the right to highlight what it might look like. If so and it is again in the spirit of parliamentaryism, because it certainly is not in the spirit of parliamentaryism that the position stands out in supporting the government, it may sound paradoxical but it is simply so. Here were the immodest attempts by the club LIBRE to first point to the well-intention and serious efforts made by the Committee headed by Mr Bošnjakovic, and the second to come to those solutions that will be closer to the excessive parliamentary solution, i.e. life and where really dialogue will be dialogue and debate, debate. Which could be something else for this partner of ours. On the contrary, it will be simply a circumstance in which the majority and through this institute will exercise supremacy and literally disable what is so important, the control of the executive authority by the representative authority, especially the part that is opposition. As for the pause around it, there was indeed abuse and only in two sentences. We don't think it's a good idea to dictate with two minutes, or five minutes, the first request for a break and the second explanation that's 5 minutes after the same stop. But we agree that a framework is being achieved that will not really go the way it happened in parliament, that there is an experience going on in order to simply interfere with it through a institute like this. Here, thank you colleagues and colleagues Bošnjakovic has already shown an understanding of the Committee on the Environment, which is completely unexpected for me but welcome to schedule a session on this Rules of Procedure, so if this well-meaning of colleagues Bosnjakovic continues, it is possible to talk to colleagues not from the HSS but from the HDZ that this proposal will pass. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-29-0.u11295	Thank you, colleague Herman. On behalf of the HNS PGS Club, dear colleague Lesar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-29-0.u11296	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. I think it is good that this topic has finally come to the Parliament's agenda so that at the next session on the amended Rules of Procedure and the issue of the current morning and, possibly, we have a schedule that we do not have to seek temporary solutions for each session at the Bureau's meetings. What the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system have done in many parts is acceptable to us. I want to apologize to the President for not being present at the last session because of other obligations and thank him for the effort he has made throughout his work to reach a compromise solution between several models offered. However, our Club has made three amendments to this proposal, and if good will is shown and they are accepted, then we will really be able to provide all 11 votes for these proposed amendments and additions. But these words contained in Article 3. The proposal to amend the Rules of Procedure is converted into figures, it might be good to follow whether the mathematics I have made is good, so this solution in Article 3 starts from asking 40 questions, that the schedule of questions is calculated by the Club dividing by 4, and that mathematics goes up to 0.5 from then on, with several groups that have exclusive right and the proposal is for applying positive discrimination mechanisms, asking questions that are not counted on by that quota. So it is said that independent MPs who are not elected to political parties have at least one question but I immediately note how well I know that such representatives are not presently presently presently missing. It is also the right of representatives of national minorities who are not organised in the Club of Representatives, which we also do not have and the third category are those representatives who have not formed a club of representatives. If, therefore, we apply these provisions or convert them into figures with me still unknown fact of how we will interpret this provision when it comes to fellow Loncar, then it would actually turn out to be an actual morning with 41 questions. Because two questions we have reserved questions, so for two members of the Parliament who don't have a club and then one independent who's not in any club, while the other numbers of the mandate are divided by 4 would turn out to be the next. If the HDZ were entitled to 16,49, so on 16, the DC Club, HSLS, on the 1st question, the HSU Club on one, the SDSS on one, fellow LS Loncar on one, minorities on one, HSS on two, HSS two, HNS, PGS three, SDP on 8, Libra one, MPs from LS one, because they don't have Club, IDS one, that's 18 issues would be on the side of the parliamentary majority, and 21 questions on the side of the parliamentary majority. 21 issues would belong to HDZ and coalition partners, and 18 would belong to the parliamentary minority, and two directly reserved issues. Well, now whether it's unsettled in basketball maybe, but in politics it's really not a tie you know. This is therefore my view of the proposal for Article 3. Maybe I was wrong in math, I don't know the status of a fellow potter, because this definition doesn't apply to him then. So let me explain the three amendments we submitted. The first amendment concerns Article 110 of the existing Rules of Procedure which are not the subject of the proposed amendments and additions, and to remind my colleagues and colleagues of the provision prescribed by the Government's obligation to provide the Parliament with an indication of the draft law when it is not the proposer. The current wording in the Rules of Procedure is that the Government must give that indication until the start of the debate in the working bodies in the Parliament. This formulation can be interpreted in any case, which is why we are offering the first amendment to the government, so that it gives an indication of the draft laws when she is not a proposing to be 30 days from the day when the President of the Parliament referred the bill to the Government. And I believe that the 30-day period offered is really appropriate so that the President of the Parliament could, within 30 days of that, put the law, or the day before, on the Parliament's agenda. Our second amendment refers to a quota of 40 questions and we are going back to our original proposal, where we propose that this 40-total quota, actually 41 issues should be divided in a way. That 40% of these issues belong to the parliamentary majority and 60% to the parliamentary minority. I probably don't have to make any further arguments why we suggest that MPs from the ranks of the parliamentary minority still have at least a little more real issues than the parliamentary majority, because it's actually our only way to ask questions and get answers. And our third amendment concerns the responsibility of the Presidency of the Parliament, which also has the current Rules of Procedure, the possibility of sitting together with the club presidents, and with these powers which so far existed, we are proposing powers and the obligation to establish at the beginning of the year so-called. the calendar of the meeting so that all representatives and clubs know in advance when the Parliament is sitting so that the Government can plan its activities and proposals of the Law, because if it is unknown, then quality preparation and representatives and other legislators is greatly difficult. These are therefore our three amendments supplementing the existing proposal and I am convinced that tomorrow the Committee on the Constitution will accept all three proposed amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-29-0.u11297	Thank you, dear colleague Lesar. On behalf of the HSP Club, dear colleague Pero Kovacevic. Here's your esteemed colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-29-0.u11298	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, the most I will look back at this article 3., by reminding myself that we were the first to point out the need to amend the Rules of Procedure regarding the current morning and we suggested scribble as it is here and we tried to prescribe it. But I agree with my colleagues that clearly a bad variant has been made here because it is known that the current morning in all countries is primarily meant for opposition, and the logic of things would be that the opposition has 60%, and the ruling majority has 40%. Therefore, we cannot accept these quotas specifically related to item 2 or paragraph 3 which is amended in Article 180, because we would have only that way two, it would have both HSS two and it is the exact account of Mr Lesar. If we take the second bill, we divide the total number of MPs by four, and we'll only get 38 questions. So the majority should have 40%, 60% of the opposition, and then this key can be divided not by 4, but by 3. That's right and fair. Or if you don't accept it, then let's all go to the draw. Let's all get into the parish, so all of the MPs, because then that'll be fair, this is a conducting lot. This is a conducting stallion. Because one MP, because minorities also have more questions than we do. And they are within the ruling majority. Therefore, we must take care of all this, especially what I tell me first of all, and others from the opposition, we are the voice of the public in this House. The public expects us to ask a question. We know that the ruling majority will never ask questions that are tricky for the government, that's a logical thing. But then we do this part, because it's going to happen to you in four years, that you're going to have this same Rules of Procedure. Therefore, be smart in this part and mean the least we can agree to is that 40% of the ruling majority, 60% of the opposition or others, all of them involved in the draw, so whoever it is. But I think this most logical and democratic variant is that 60% has opposition, 40% ruling. Because in this way we will disable if this is the voice of the public, the voice of the people in the Croatian Parliament. It's a minimum or we won't vote, and then we'll obstruct the current morning. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-29-0.u11299	Thank you, dear colleague. On behalf of the IDS Club, dear colleague Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-29-0.u11300	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. President, the Honorable Mr. Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-29-0.u11301	Thank you. On behalf of the HSS Club, a respected representative of Zdenko Harami.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-29-0.u11302	Dear Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues! We all agree that the current practice on the current clock and how to ask questions has not been good. However, we have some remarks on the proposed amendments. First of all, we must point out that the practice in the European countries' parliaments is that, as said by the Croatian Party Club, the right to the opposition has 60% of the issues and the position has 40% of the issues. It would be good if it were a practice in our parliament as well. However, given the inter-party agreement that was made before this meeting or during last week, during last week's session, when it is agreed to ask 40 questions and that the parties have quotas for which they will and will correspond to me in paragraph 3 of the proposed amendments to the Rules of Procedure, we shall make the following comments and in this direction we will also put the amendment. So, firstly, we think that the party, too, that all parties that have more than one representative must, on this principle by gender, have such a number of MPs, such a number of rights to ask questions. So, a party that doesn't have a club, which is, in this case, the Liberal Party would have the right to ask one question at each session of Parliament. And we believe that a party that has one representative, which is in Parliament only one party that has one representative would have the right to ask a question, not as the IDS has proposed every fourth session, but every third session of Parliament. In this direction, we will also put the amendment, or amendment, to Article 3 of the proposed amendments. So that parties that have clubs, as well as a party that has, or a party that has two MPs ask questions according to the agreed principle, so divided by two, and that a party that has one representative raises a question at each third session of Parliament. As regards paragraph 2 of Article 3 and we believe that a correction should also be made and that in the part where it is said that when the result ends as 0.50 is adjusted to more to add 0.50 and higher, so that also 0.50 belongs to that part where larger figures are increased. We think that would be correct and that would satisfy it, to satisfy exactly what was said by the HNS Club to raise all the questions that can be asked, or quotas that are so divided, we get to number 38, not the number 40. As for the rest, I'd just like to make one more remark. We received the benches of the amendment given by the HDZ Club where the amendment is proposed in Article 6 of the proposed amendment by the proposed amendment, therefore, by the Committee on the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure, which is to give the presentation after the break to the representative of the club everything for 2 minutes. We find it far more correct what was, which is in the proposed text, so it should be five minutes and we'll stand up for it. In that direction, if our suggestions and our amendments are adopted, that's how we plead. In that direction, we would then vote on the proposed amendments to the Rules of Procedure if not most likely we would vote against. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-29-0.u11303	Thank you very much. I think that this amendment from the HDZ Club to Article 6, it doesn't touch this for 5 minutes, paragraph 2 applies only to paragraph 2. Dear Representative Željko Pavlic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-29-0.u11304	Ladies and gentlemen, let me also briefly refer to the adoption of this version of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. Well, at the shortest, I cannot support this version of the Rules of Procedure because, in my opinion, there is a reduction in the right of MPs to ask a representative's question and I am referring to the general rights and duties of MPs that would actually be reduced in this way, i.e. limited. So let me just remind you that, for example. Back in 97, when I first came to the Parliament that I was also asking questions at the time, but in the Rules of Procedure, it was possible for each MP to ask at the same time, as many as two questions. In order to reduce this to one question today, we are considering variations by which MPs may even be limited in that, therefore, they can even personally ask a parliamentary question. I don't think that's a good thing, which is more so if we look at the Constitution, the Constitution itself and the Rules of Procedure that are just stressing the independence of MPs, Article 74. The constitution states that MPs in the Croatian Parliament do not have a binding mandate. Article 81 also speaks of MPs voting in person. The article 85 also speaks of representatives of the Croatian Parliament having the right to ask the Government of the Republic and individual ministers parliamentary questions. The Rules of Procedure also states, under the general rights and duties of MPs, that the representative has the rights and duties to ask questions to the Prime Minister and members of the government. So far, neither the Constitution nor the Rules of Procedure have mentioned a club of representatives. The new proposed article, therefore, through Article 3 is therefore proposed to ask a total of 40 questions in the appeal morning of representatives’ clubs, therefore, not MPs. Therefore, MPs will be significantly limited in their actions, as the clubs of the representatives will i.e. political parties will determine which of these MPs will be able to ask one of the questions. I think it's a step back and we shouldn't really let that happen. The current Rules of Procedure allow me to get out of this situation as soon as possible? So to preserve the independence of the MPs, we should exercise the right to ask a parliamentary question. The experiences that tell us, tell us that usually 40 questions are asked in the current class. If most optimally, the most effective use of the current clock, which generally lasts for 4 hours and now takes 3 or 2.5 hours if, therefore, we set aside the time spent on determining the agenda and the half now, which on the half, therefore, is separated, if we effectively work 4 hours from 9.30 to 11.30, even about 50 questions could be asked. I think it's quite enough to satisfy the interest of the MPs to ask questions before each assembly session. And what should be introduced and what would solve this situation is exactly what this Rules of Procedure is about, and that is, the extraction of order, because it is precisely, all the problem has just arisen, therefore, about the order of asking questions. So my proposal is to leave the possibility and to give each representative and not the Club of Representatives the opportunity to determine who will ask the questions. Likewise, the order of those who have signed up for the order to be determined by the dispensation is the order. I think that would be fair in the spirit of the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure that has been so far. And the question, therefore, whether such provisions as they have given in this Rules of Procedure are in the spirit of the Rules of Procedure and in the spirit of the Constitution and whether they may not be brought down at any other station of that new provision. Here, I end up, with a message to preserve the independence and strength of the parliamentary representative, not the club representatives and parties who play a big role in the work of the Parliament anyway. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-29-0.u11305	I'd like to thank my colleague, Pavlic, to give you one piece of information. Today, as President of the Parliament, I held a meeting with the presidents of clubs or parties, 5 parliamentary parties related to agreeing to a position to discuss the actions of The Hague indictments. And tomorrow at 10 am, I schedule a session of the Extended Presidency of the Croatian Parliament at 10 o'clock in hall 149 with all the presidents, or representatives of all the clubs of the parliamentary parties. Honorable representative of Pearl Perman.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-29-0.u11306	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Already some parts of my debate have been said by colleagues who had preceded, which is especially in that section concerning the fixing of the quota of the total, i.e. the total number of MPs and the way in which the question is granted, i.e. Article 3 of this proposal. And in that part, I would totally agree with Mr. Caine and leave as one alternative what Mr. Haramiya said, and it refers to this second item of the same article that speaks of this, the division of the number of members divided by 4 with the fact that when calculating the result above 0.5 is adjusted to more. I agree that this should include 0.5 and more. However, I think this IDS Club proposal is much better. Furthermore, in Article 6, and in accordance with the amendments to Article 4, I think only one short text should be added, which is that Articles 223a and 223b are added, and then the following is added. Finally, in Article 223b proposed here in the indent (a) between, as regards the request for a break, the right to apply for a recess and to say that the request for a break is submitted before, that it will not be granted if the request for a stay is submitted before the set agenda and the transition to the agenda. However, before the agenda is established, or before the agenda is changed, we have “ Current morning”. What about the request for a break during the “Current afternoon”? Whether or not the Proposer has foreseen such a situation at all, or if I do not think that it should be included in this proposal in some way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-29-0.u11307	I'd like to thank the esteemed representative Perman. He is also a respected representative, Ivo Josipovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-29-0.u11308	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues, in any case, support the effort to resolve this in a reasonable and just way, I would almost say a major and technical problem with serious, practical and political implications. In principle, it seems to me that the effort that has been done is good, but that it generates some injustices that I think might be in the process or further negotiations should therefore be kept in mind. In the first row, of course, it would be good for the opposition to have at least equal or higher possibilities of questions. I won't repeat my reasons. We heard them. Secondly, I'm not sure it's fair that minority representatives, with all their respect, have a double quota to say so. So they also perform as minority representatives and as part of the ruling coalition because they entered into the calculation of course. And thirdly, I don't think it's fair to say that someone who's chosen I am so who's an independent representative which is fine, is elected on his list, has such a huge advantage over those MPs who have been elected on any other party list. In fact, someone who has been elected on his own list has therefore every time if this is exactly what we heard an opportunity to ask a question while parties that are relatively large and have a lot of MPs like HSP or HSS have, and Libre, although with a smaller, smaller number of MPs, therefore have only two parliamentary issues at each session and I personally don't think that's a fair solution. And of course there is that question of all the issues that caused so many misunderstandings about other choices. This is to finally establish by some standard who is the ruling coalition, which is the opposition? It seems to me that, given that many issues are also being voted on by the fact that some proposal remains only one criterion, which is who supported or who supports the government during the election or the possible review of its mandate. I think that perhaps even these adjustments would contribute to the justness of the solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-29-0.u11309	I thank my colleague Josipovic. Just two notices. The President of the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security Mr. Ivan Jarnjak scheduled a meeting of the Committee tomorrow at 9pm in Hall 133 with the agenda of the Proposal for a Decision on the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the Peace Mission in India and Pakistan. That came from the government today. Tomorrow we will try to put it on the agenda and make that decision and the chairman of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system reports that, that changing the date from the Committee meeting at 9.00 p.m. to 12:00 p.m., it is the same in Hall 133. And now I'm asking you to keep your eye on yourself, Mr. Bosnjakovic. Would you like to take a word on this discussion about the amendments and the additions to the Rules of Procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-29-0.u11310	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, the debate has shown that it is actually very difficult to find a model where we will all be satisfied. I thank all those who participated in the debate and who gave amendments. We'll make a decision on the Committee tomorrow at 12 p.m. to make amendments. It's a little bit of a short time, let's be honest, between the two sessions to hit a model that's absolutely appropriate, but I think what's proposed is better than what's been proposed so far and if we can make some amendments and if the amendments are going to improve, we'll see it on the board tomorrow, we'll accept it, and we'll vote tomorrow. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-29-0.u11311	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. Tomorrow we'd be back at half past ten, we've got, with a report on the work of the attorney general for 2003. What? [[The intruders don't understand.]] It'll be over in time. It'll be over in time so one of the vice presidents, if it's not over, will be here. We have two more bill proposals, one of which is a condition, and one doesn't have conditions for the other. It's a proposal for a law on the State Fund for Temporary Child Support. Proposer is Mrs. Djurdja Adlesic. There's no condition for him. For an identical proposal of the content law of the SDP Club there are conditions and then we will see whether there will be conditions for this second one, because it is logical that this debate be conducted in a unique manner. We'll see if we can do that tomorrow. On this point 15, which is in the final draft agenda, it is very likely that the debate will take place at the next session, and not at this one, so that tomorrow, with a debate on the report on the work of the attorney general for 2003 and this, the Decision on the participation of members of the peace forces in India and Pakistan and the vote, would try to set a voting term for me to decide, depending on this, end of this debate over the Ombudsman, on the report of the Ombudsman, which would set an early date for the debate to come to an end as soon as possible. Thank you very much. So pick up tomorrow at 9.30 p.m. The amendment and addition of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament is proposed by the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system. The debate on the text of the decision is over. We have amendments. I ask MPs and MPs to follow the table and chair of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system of Mr Drazen Bošnjakovic to show about the proposed amendments. Number one. The Committee on Spatial Planning and Environmental Protection.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-29-0.u11313	We don't accept. The Committee has taken a position not to accept amendments concerning, to accept only those relating to the proposed text of the decision. And all this other about the expansion of the Committee, we accept as an initiative and a proposal for other amendments to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-29-0.u11314	Thank you very much. Representative of the Committee on Spatial Planning and Environmental Protection. He's gone. We have to vote. Who's up for that amendment? Thank you. He's not accepted. So, it's going to go as an initiative content part of the amendments. Second, the Club of Representatives of the CNS, the PGS.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-29-0.u11315	We don't accept the same argument.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-29-0.u11316	Without much consideration, we'd be begging for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-29-0.u11317	Please vote. Who's in favour of this amendment? He didn't get the necessary majority. Third, the Club of HNS Representatives, the PGS.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-29-0.u11318	The same argument, we do not accept because it refers to the motion itself and we will consider it.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-29-0.u11319	We're also asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-29-0.u11320	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Fourth, the HSS Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-29-0.u11321	We have partly accepted that these representatives we have given the right to remain a question at each session. We accept, in part, that it should be at each other's session if the proposing agrees.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-29-0.u11322	Comrade Lalic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-29-0.u11323	I thank Mr. President, so that's exactly how the Committee is actually as a proposing, they've accepted the amendment to something that's changed. And in that modified content, we accept. And that's why we withdraw that original amendment of ours and accept it this way.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-29-0.u11324	Thank you. Therefore, the amended amendment was adopted in agreement with the amendment's proposal and in line with the President's position expressed. Fifth, HNS's Club of Representatives, PGS.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-29-0.u11325	We do not accept because the solution offered is different from the concept taken by the board.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-29-0.u11326	A colleague of Shantić's.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-29-0.u11327	For principle reasons, we are asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-29-0.u11328	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Sixth, MP Dragica Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-29-0.u11329	And we also wanted to accept in part, but colleagues are not now going to indicate whether they would accept the amended text. The proposal was to replace the word "Club President who has the right to request a break" with a club representative. We, as a committee, have taken the view that the president should be appointed, that the text should be changed in a way that means that the president, vice president of the club, or if they are not present another member of the club. However, there is no colleague, so we don't know if she agrees to this. Here, as an amendment to the committee, we give this text.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-29-0.u11330	We have to vote because she doesn't have a colleague. Although I see you know,... whether we formally need to vote. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, who's for a amendment like this, Mrs. Representative, dear Zgrebec? Thank you. He didn't pass even though he practically went through this accepted amendment to the committee. HDZ Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-29-0.u11331	We accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-29-0.u11332	It's becoming an integral part. Eight, Agent Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-29-0.u11333	We do not accept for the reasons mentioned because they do not refer to the proposed text. But we'll take it into account in the next changes.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-29-0.u11334	The vote. Who's in?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-29-0.u11335	Oh, wait a minute. It is wrong here to point out that it is for Agent Damir Cain. We in the amendments wrote club IDS up in our heads.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-29-0.u11336	Oh, it's a club, then it's okay, okay. Okay. Who's in favour of this amendment? He didn't get the necessary majority. It's the same as MPs' club number nine.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-29-0.u11337	We also do not accept the fact that the Interparliamentary Cooperation Committee already exists in the Rules of Procedure under point 20. So it's unnecessary actually.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-29-0.u11338	Yeah, but no status rights are regulated.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-29-0.u11339	You don't even ask for an amendment here.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-29-0.u11340	Yeah, the club signed it. He writes up the IDS Club, and then he writes Damir Kai's representative, but he's not the president. Who's up for that amendment? Thank you very much. He didn't get the necessary majority. The last amendment is also the representative of the Damir Cain Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-29-0.u11341	We don't accept the same reasons.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-29-0.u11342	The vote. Who's up for that amendment? Thank you for not getting the necessary majority. We still have our own amendment to the Committee of Nomotechnical Nature, becoming an integral part of the Rules of Procedure's proposal. But please let's go for formal reasons. Who is for this amendment to the Constitution Committee? Thank you very much. Against? Restraint? I find that the amendment has been accepted by 79 votes and 1 against and 1 abstention. I am voting on the proposal for a decision on amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure. I note that the decision requires a majority of the votes of all MPs, so at least 77 votes. Who's in? Thank you very much. Against? Thank you. Restraint? I note that, with 83 votes for and 11 abstentions, the decision on amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament was made in the text as proposed by the Proposer together with the amendments adopted. Finally, the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System delivered an opinion pursuant to Article 209(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Rules of Procedure on the request of Representative Nenad Stazic, whether the chairman of the Croatian Parliament injured the Rules of Procedure when he took the floor away from the debate. I am voting on the opinion of the Committee. Who's in favour of the Committee's opinion? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Abstained? I find that, with 78 votes for and 6 against the committee's accepted opinion, with the hope that the Committee will never need to take a position on this.
