ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-22-0.u20524	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. At the beginning of my first official appearance as a representative in the Croatian Parliament, I would like to thank you for the support you gave when confirming the mandate of MPs in the Assembly. I know that most of you here have a long parliamentary internship compared to all of you I'm a beginner in a way says the freshman people, but I'm the youngest in Parliament, but I believe I'll catch up with you with my work and justify the trust I've been told about. On the agenda of today's session is the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Hire of Business Space proposed by my predecessor, Mr Mate Brletić, on behalf of the Democratic Centre. This Bill of Law was also made clear by the Government of the Republic of Croatia by giving its positive opinion. I expect you to make your contribution after this argument in order to obtain, after conducting the parliamentary procedure, one law from which everyone to whom this Law is intended, first and foremost, craftsmen and small businessmen will benefit. Today's craftsmanship and small entrepreneurship in Croatia characterizes the fact that it did not develop as a fruit of a designed economic strategy. On the contrary, today's craftsmanship and small entrepreneurship in Croatia have been created in many areas in response to the fired workers from former companies who gave their private initiative in the desire to provide bread to themselves and their children and their families in the opening of private shops. Clearly, they had the support of the current governments in the Republic of Croatia, the state helped through the I Enterprise and Entrepreneur II programmes, however, it was not enough to achieve the right results. Only when they opened the store did they start to face major problems, and the biggest problems stemmed from a lack of financial resources or from an unregulated market where they settled as craftsmen or small businessmen. Little is known that small economy and craftsmanship to rely on large and we know for ourselves that the great economy is so-called. The big economy is in big trouble, many companies are in bankruptcy, some have failed so that it has affected the increase of craft problems and small businesses. We at the Democratic Centre hold that under these circumstances it was not possible to develop an entrepreneurial spirit in craftsmen and entrepreneurs or in society to create an entrepreneurial environment. It is known that many economic operators are plagued by the great problem of indifference, everyone is obliged, accounts and obligations are not paid, there are many lawsuits, so that this entrepreneurial environment is extremely insecure. In the proposed amendments and additions to the law on the lease of business space, we see the possibility of implementing practical macroeconomic policy measures, even at a micro level that can help small entrepreneurs, craftsmen to create an entrepreneurial environment. I would like to look back at the goal we want to achieve with these proposed amendments and additions. The development of a small economy has been recorded as the priority of economic policy almost in the programmes of all political parties, meaning that as political parties we have the possibility to achieve the development of a small economy through the legislative measures means concrete rather than declaratively. Today we have two proposals here on amendments and additions to the Law on the Hire of Business Space, one we proposed in front of the Democratic Centre and the other proposed a club of representatives of the HNS-PGS. There are differences between them. The difference is that the proposal of the Democratic Centre allows and does not oblige the state or local administration and self-government to deal with its ownership. The procedure under our legal proposal has been left for the decision of the local administration and self-government and the state if they have an interest in a stimulating small economy. In the section relating to business space management, municipalities, cities and counties, the City of Zagreb and the Republic of Croatia will no longer be if our proposal is accepted limited to existing legislation, but will be able to provide business space without competition. In the case of a business space owned by a local and regional administration and self-government, that is to say, if it is a business space owned by a state. So an existing tenant if he is clearly orderly in carrying out his duties. Why it is important to make it possible to rent or sell without competition. Because the tender is just disqualifying small businesspeople in a relationship with large companies who are certainly able to offer the highest price for rent. In this regard, it should be borne in mind that, under Article 6(6) of the existing Law on the lease of business space, it is stated that the most favourable offer will be considered as an offer that includes the highest source of the lease with the fulfilment of the conditions laid down in the invitation to tender. The legislative proposal we have proposed is restrictive in relation to the tenants, as it applies only to small and micro and small entities, i.e. natural and legal persons who employ up to a maximum of 10 and up to 50 employees, respectively. If this Law had not been supplemented, it would have been a consequence that several thousand craftsmen in the Republic of Croatia would close their crafts from which only in the City of Zagreb over 1500 craftsmen. In fact, the contract was concluded after 1998, as a rule up to 5 years, and since the procurator fulfilled the legal obligation set out in Article 35 of this Law. For example, a public tender for around 1500 business premises should be opened on the harmonisation of the contract. For small-scale entrepreneurs with up to 10 employees, i.e. up to a maximum of 50 employees, if they are in a business space owned by units of the area, i.e. regional and local self-governments, they will be allowed without repurchase tenders and if they are in the business space of the Republic of Croatia and the ransom with special benefits of recognised rights based on investment in business space, and will equalise their rights with the rights of other economic operators. It's clear which ones they've acquired in the post-optics of conversion and privatisation. In doing so, the Government will regulate the conditions and procedure for the sale of business space owned by the Republic of Croatia as well as the way in which its price is determined, the discounts recognised to customers, the payment method, the content of the sales contract and the purpose of the funds achieved by the sale of such business premises. A specific benefit would also be given to units of local, or regional self-government which, without prejudice to their right of ownership, reduce the costs of carrying out the tendering process and protect their interest through a lease relationship with a well-known tenant who regularly fulfils his contractual obligations. On the basis of the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, the Law on the Conversion of Social Enterprises or on Privatisation, the Law on the Sale of dwellings on which there is a household law, and the Law on property compensation seized during the Yugoslav-Communist Government, the ownership structure, in particular the ownership structure of a significant part of the Croatian economy from a social or state-owned holding, has been amended. Contrary to employees in former social property companies who were able to buy shares by virtue of the Law on the Conversion of Social Enterprises or the Law on Privatisation to acquire rights from the ownership of these companies, a significant number of craftsmen have carried out and continued to operate in the premises of former social or state property for several generations. By converting most of the social and state ownership into private craftsmen and other small-scale operators rightly expected to pass laws that would allow them to become owners of business space in a way and under the conditions that it was allowed for employees under the Law on the Conversion of Social Enterprises. What's our goal? The aim is to encourage the development of craftsmanship of small and small enterprises, to prevent the closure of crafts and crafts and small entrepreneurships that could occur if, after the public procurement for the lease of business space was opened, those who offer the most favourable offer could report on the basis of the existing law, so that the main role here would actually play the amount of money offered for the leased business space. Namely, such spaces in many Croatian cities are threatened by so-called tycunisation of business spaces. The maximum price to be achieved after such an open tender would be determined for the lease of that business space. So in many of our environments, parts of our cities and almost entire cities would gradually begin to lose the identity and identity of these bodies of our cities. In that case, instead of traditional crafts, for example, we could move many shops with the inscription "Teana", "Shop", "Singapur Shop", "Fizulić Land",... We also want to equalise craftsmen and small entrepreneurs who invested funds in equipping and maintaining space with those who at the beginning of the conversion and privatisation bought shares that I was talking about earlier. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We also want to protect the interest of the tenant, i.e. the owner of the business space through the lease relationship with the known tenant, i.e. the buyer. In all of this, we also want to enable local administration and self-government that has its own plans, development of small businesses, craftsmanship so that they can resolve and implement their plans in a easier way. We also expect that, after the start of this application, there will be a faster payment and easier payment of the obligations of the existing tenants of the business space because they will see their interest in seeing that they will one day come into the situation as they regularly pay, in such a position as to be able to extend the contract without a public tender. It is known that in many environments you have such a situation that a large number of business spaces are not paid, there is a contract, a shower of lawsuits on all sides, so a bad environment is created in the environments. This is best known by lawyers, or mayors and commissioners, to whom lawyers orderly send accounts for representation, i.e. defending the interests of local administrations and self-government. At the end of the distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs, we have before us a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the lease of business space, which has concrete measures to preserve Croatian heritage and crafts heritage, the identity of our cities, preserve our tradition and culture. In front of those who have a lot of money, because if the amount of money offered is the main criterion, our identity goes into oblivion; our soul goes away, and the physionomy of many of our environments will change. This Law is a good tool in the hands of capable and vision of developing gifted mayors and mayors regardless of the belongings of political parties to whom their citizens are well in mind. Finally, this proposal carries a significant dose of justice and correcting the injustice done to craftsmen and small businesses who were always suspicious in communism and were considered to be leftovers of capitalism that should be destroyed as soon as possible, which had been beautiful, maintained and kept commercial premises in state or owned by local self-government for years. The craftsmen and small entrepreneurs everywhere provide adequate stimuli of the visibility of a particular environment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-22-0.u20525	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the CNS, the PGS, the Honorable Representative of Ferenchak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-22-0.u20526	Dear Mr. President, representatives of the government, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs. The Croatian People's Party Club and the Primorje-Gorski Alliance also offered a proposal to amend and supplement this Act by offering problems that arise in the functioning and operation of units of local self-government. According to the current law on the lease of a business space, all the tenants to whom the lease agreement stands must leave their premises, stop working and submit their premises to the management of the local self-government unit by the end of this year and then try to re-election of the lease. Such tenants in Zagreb have only 1500. You can imagine the chaos and confusion that would have caused such a provision of law that is now in force. In fact, this provision is unfair because it does not give security or the possibility to plan any business activity for a longer period and puts tenants in a very uncertain position. It is clear to everyone that the implementation of such a decision would cause a huge number of court proceedings because the tenants would not voluntarily leave the premises and would protect their rights by long-term court proceedings. In order to ensure the possibility of normal and secure business for existing tenants, and to provide them and local self-government units with correct rents, we proposed in the proposal to amend the law on the lease of business space that existing tenants have the right to the lease. Where they participate and fulfil the conditions laid down in a public tender, subject to the acceptance of the conditions set out in the most favourable offer and where the contract is concluded under the existing law and if they carry out their contractual obligations neatly. In this way we respect the principle of justice and equality of all and entrepreneurial equality, and we guarantee fair rent to local self-government units. It should be pointed out that the old crafts and crafts needed for each city should be protected by privileged rents and special permits to carry out such activities in certain locations. And all others need to be exposed to a fair match check. Furthermore, I would like to refer to the government's opinion on our legislative proposal, which I find both questionable and very unprofessional. The Government argues that the proposed provisions are contained in the existing law in transitional and final provisions and that this proposal is therefore not supported. It is not true and it is not true and it is the government itself who disproved it because it is the exact same proposal of a respected colleague, Piplovic, I apologize, so the proposal is exactly the same. The proposal received a positive opinion. Our proposal has not been given a positive opinion. So amazing for the same thing two different interpretations. And I will further support the unprofessionalness of the government that writes what they think, so I will read to you the opinion of the Government or the State's Attorney's Office on this Act which says that the existing provisions of the Law only apply to the harmonisation of the lease agreement until 5.11.1988. And only until that deadline was given the right of the former tenant's championship which clearly states that our bill is clearly correct and welcome. So I'm going to quote, I have here, the State's Attorney's Office, which says, "We're distracting you that after this, it's no longer possible to extend the lease contract, but you're going to have to call a new competition in accordance with the provisions of the Business Space Act." Indeed the incredible incompetence and unprofessionalness of the people of the government who wrote this. So this quote proves that acting under the current laws also requires the tendering for business premises for which the lease agreement expired, which is what I say at the end of this year because the first time it was called for in 1988 and without the right of the former tenant's championship. To assume that, in most cases, former tenants will remain in their premises and will not leave it peacefully, causing long-term court disputes and costs and unlawful use of space. In order for tenants, especially craftsmen who have spent many years or all their working life through independent performance, to achieve their existence, to give the existence of a number of families certain legal certainty in business planning, we propose such amendments and additions to the law, and I ask this high home to support this proposal for amending and supplementing the law on the lease of business space in the proposed text. The more the initiative for this law was given by the Chamber of Bretnička hrvatska, the Chamber of crafts, the Head of the City of Zagreb and all those involved in the crafts work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-22-0.u20527	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation. Honorable representative of Jure Bitunac.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-22-0.u20528	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Ferenchak said this: for the exact same two proposals of the law, the Government gives a different view, a different opinion. That's not true at all. These two proposals are completely different and they treat this matter differently. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-22-0.u20529	Does he want the rapporteurs of the Legislative Committee, right? The Committee on Economy, Development and Reconstruction? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. SDP representative club, respected deputy president Mato Arlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-22-0.u20530	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues! The SDP advocates' club will support the proposal, the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Hire of Business Space, which they have referred to in the parliamentary procedure of colleagues from the Club of Representatives of the HNS-PGS, and will also unfortunately not be able to support the Bill on Amendments and Supplements of the Business Area Act, which he referred to before this debate, and is now defended by counterpart Piploić on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the DC. Why? Unfortunately, you will hear 'for reasons we are about to expose. First of all, we believe that unlike the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which supports the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Business Area Act submitted by counterpart Brletić, this law has been unedited and that, from the point of view of the amendments and amendments offered, it is constitutionally-legislatively asked. It should first be recalled that the applicant calls for Article 49(2). The Constitution as a Constitution on the basis of amendments and additions to this law, while at the same time in Article 49, paragraph 2. The constitution, clearly prescribed, quotes: “The state provides all entrepreneurs with the same legal position. The market prohibits the abuse of a monopoly position laid down by law and so on. Now, you see, this is very interesting to call on this provision of the Constitution that requires an equal position, and at the same time we propose to amend and give special benefits, although in the interest of the Republic of Croatia, when it comes to the possibility of buying out a business space by the so far user of business space, and in such a situation it is quite clear that this question is certainly from the point of view of the Constitution itself, very, very, very questionable. The second issue that follows in itself is the question that the Government of the Republic of Croatia should prescribe this by a regulation. It should also indicate that, when it comes to the interest of the Republic of Croatia, it is in Article 50. The Constitution is explicitly prescribed, I quote: “It is possible, in the interest of the Republic of Croatia, to restrict or confiscate property to, in addition to market value.” Therefore, if such an advantage is to be given to entrepreneurs and our craftsmen who use business space in those business premises owned by the Republic of Croatia or in the majority of the ownership of legal persons in the Republic of Croatia, then it would certainly be possible, in accordance with the Constitution, to adopt the law and constitutional provisions or conditions prescribed by the Constitution, to further elaborate, only then, by law, how and under what conditions, in which way, it is possible to buy such a business space. Therefore, such authority could not have the Government of the Republic of Croatia, regardless of the situation that the Government of the Republic of Croatia manages real estate or business space on behalf of the Republic of Croatia. But when it comes to their alienation, in this particular case, we should take care of, in our opinion, the law should be passed rather than, as well, prescribing the regulation. The second question that we also, or third in fact in order that we must also point out, is that we are asking the question. Namely, when it is said that legal and physical persons carrying out public activity can actually benefit from the lease of a business space. That's exactly right. Any owner can do that. It is also called for in Article 2, Article 6, of a applicable law under which it is specifically required by local units, local self-government units, so municipalities, cities, the city of Zagreb and states should be prescribed, then, because of the interest to which the applicant of the state is again called, in fact, seen, and the interest can be manifested in Article 3. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia in order to develop, for example, multilaterals and so on, if it is parties or for the development of civil society, if it is the associations that actually give some minimum legal elements to make it easier for local self-government units to implement it. Among other things, and because such a possibility existed in the current law so far, but it was little used because there were no legal criteria to be developed by the implementing act of the units of local and regional self-government when this issue was regulated. The fourth reasons, of course, that are also important to us, is the fact that one part of Article 6a is affected. in the autonomy of local self-government units. It is said here, among other things, if micro or macro or small entity is a small economy, and neatly settles the lease and regularly fulfils the basic terms laid down by the contract to rent him a business space. Now, he says, owned by municipalities, cities, county and the city and legal affairs owned or mostly owned by them. In this respect, the legal conditions laid down for the management of ownership, not for the restriction of ownership and entrepreneurship freedoms, and in this respect should be different and elaborated because the management rights of local self-government units in relation to their ownership of ownership could not thus be limited. That's number one. Number 2 is the question which is the difference between micro and small, one, that's actually the same thing. Therefore, the question is raised here, if there is a code in the applicant's opinion, some difference between a micro subject and a small one, the law should define it. In the language sense it is the same, only one used Latin term and another used Croatian expression. Therefore, you should see what is meant because otherwise this will cause a different interpretation of this concept and, of course, a problem that will cause a situation in this regard. As for the second draft law, we consider it a SDP advocate club and it is fully justified. This is more so than the transitional deductions of that law have already been used as an explanation by the Proposer. And that virtually possible advantages in leases on equal terms, compared to current users of business space in units of local, regional self-government and of course state owned by the Republic of Croatia. Its legal persons are the same. And in fact, the law needs to work out this issue in a way to ensure that under equal conditions to current users of business space, they have to have advantages. And it was proposed by the club of representatives of the HNS consistently and consistently spent. In this context, too, it is not clear to us why the government has made an exception. Because this possibility also opens up a proposal from club representatives or colleagues Brletić, that under the same conditions the employees of the club have the same advantage except that they do not foresee the possibility of a public tender. Why are we afraid of a public tender, in fact it should and must be transparent because it is done between the other and the business space units of local self-government, let's never forget it. That the right to local self-government belongs to the citizens. Not the representative body. The representative body shall only perform on behalf of the citizens and shall carry out certain matters of interest for the interests of the citizens. It must therefore have the possibility that every citizen knows how to manage their joint assets to a local self-government unit. In order to actually achieve certain benefits and needs for and to satisfy them, it is now important, direct interests and the needs of those citizens themselves as members of that unit of local self-government. Of course, either in an indirect sense, or in a direct sense. In an indirect sense, for example, it can be prescribed, among other things, that the advantage is given and because of the deficitary interests of the deficited crafts that are needed in this area, and in the immediate situation should certainly be stimulated, existing entrepreneurs to continue in the leased business space. And that they use this part in quality so that it can achieve the greatest benefit actually in the development of entrepreneurship. Insulting new jobs to employment, and ultimately meeting the direct interests and needs of citizens in the area. For all these reasons, I repeat, what I said at the outset, the SDP advocates' club will support the bill's proposal to amend and supplement the Law on the lease of business space proposed by the HNS's club. Unfortunately, we cannot support the draft law amending and supplementing the law on the lease of business space. Proposed by his colleague Brletic. For the simple reason we believe, or who suggested that I be more precise colleague Brletic. And for the simple reason that we believe that if this proposal is to be left in the procedure, it would have to be done more seriously and brought into line with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia in order to be valid for a quality debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-22-0.u20531	Thank you. On behalf of the Club IDS the esteemed representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-22-0.u20532	Here you go. Your Honor, Mr. President, gentlemen of the Parliament. Here in this House a few months ago in a parliamentary debate, we had a very good proposal of the Business Area Act, which was referred to by the HSS Club in the parliamentary procedure on the proposal of the Chamber of crafts. Now we have two laws with the law of the CNS on the one hand and Mr Brletić, or Mr Piplopic, on the other. With HNS law, we welcome first of all this championship right. But only in a way that the tenant always has the right to the championship. In this second legislative proposal, I will call it Brletić, I welcome the Institute's welcome that an earlier tenant may come to the lease without a public competition, or we welcome the embryo of the sale of business space here set out in Article 6(3). But it can do as only the state here indicates. I'll explain that attitude later. But I will repeat what I said about this pay phone two or three months ago. But what's for a peasant country is for a craftsman's business space. The Croatian peasant country will be saved if we create working conditions for it, which is to give it land. Croatian village or rather Croatian peasant with 2.8 acres of average property cannot survive. You can't live off that. Or of those 2.8 acres, let alone that our peasant can cope with the conversation, whether large combinations, or importers, or the next day by opening a European market. Also, contio sin quae non, Croatian defense is business space. Without business space, craftsmanship in the Republic of Croatia is condemned to extinction. They must come if we want to save craftsmanship to that property. Secondly, the reverse is the only category in the Republic of Croatia that has received nothing from the Croatian transition. They were ideologically insolent with that communist authority, and today, they're the last holes in the play. The workers in this country received apartments, 400 thousand craftsmen did not because they were generally not in a working relationship, and they could not get to that apartment. Socialist directors and electors of the former authorities have come to the farmers' factories to get the country, the only turning points cannot reach business space. Without it, they can't develop. In one word, hard craftsmen with no business space under such conditions under quotes cannot survive on that market. They don't even ask for a discount when buying or anything. They're asking to buy it, and the city, the state, then the next day with the funds they get, they're building some other city facilities, so if they want further crafts and so forth. But now we're coming up with that city I don't know what to call it, and some other, I won't tell the mob, not that, because there's hardly any renting business space, especially in big cities that don't go without bribes. The third thing I'm saying is that gentlemen from this government are thinking about craftsmanship. If by any chance they were in that position of craftsmen, then overnight, an adequate law would be passed, and this clearly, they're thinking about selling INA, "Croatian power companies", "Croatian Telekom" or something like that. What is necessary, I think, is necessary, for the debate on craftsmanship in the Republic of Croatia to be opened in this House as well. And immediately stop the mystifications of how our craftsmen have something like that. I claim, there is no endangered category today in the Republic of Croatia since our cca. A hundred and a few thousand craftsmen. There is no category of people in the Republic of Croatia that works anymore, no category of people that are more sacrificed. So finally, they also correspond to their entire assets and then someone in this House brings them a provision on those 0.0 proms, which will bankrupt 30% of the catering, say objects or winemakers. I say, in 50% of the trades, employees are in a better position than craftsmen themselves. They first, so employees can at least count on wages, and these second ones can only count on new commitments every day. Let's just take that community rent bill IDS was up against. Well, did someone count for example now? that in one city in Istria 9 kuna per metre per square metre will be introduced retroactively since 1.1.2004. In the end, however, it gave up. Is someone, for example? In that town or another town, it doesn't matter, he calculated that if someone in one year had to pay 10,000 kuna just for so-called. a utility, that someone has to increase traffic by at least 60 or 70 thousand kuna, because otherwise they won't be able or better said to do business with a loss. Or now someone's counting on someone to give up their business space again because of this measure and share the pink under the table again. Secondly, what does Croatia not care about? In my opinion, someone mentioned it earlier, Ferenchek, if I'm not mistaken, they have to be guided, they have to start assigning so-called. licences for individual trades. No, I don't know, there's 50 guests in one Buzet. There could be 20 of them, for example. However, it may be the only city in Croatia in which guests do not work in the morning, because they are all employed, but it can't, for example, be 50 bread stores or 50 squares of electric goods or 50 stores of textiles. We need to set quotas so that everyone can work, eventually earn, and not end up in bankruptcy. Fourth. I claim that there is no city in the Republic of Croatia that targeted the construction of business premises, but rather those like here in Zagreb, the consequences of nationalisation, and in Istria primarily the consequences of options, or in some cities these business spaces were created "as the pertident of some business buildings" that eventually belonged to the city. In the case of this DC proposal in Article 6(3), with the possibility of a state selling business space, it is my view that the possibility of introducing a local self-government should also be decided. Without it, our craftsmen will again be discriminated against or they will be discriminated against. One, who will be able to buy business space from the state and those others who won't be able to. And it never ends. Mr. Arlovic is now calling for the Constitution. He claims everyone has to be in the same position, so all these business entities. But then we should be, I don't know, and all the citizens, I guess, if we have that constitution in the same position. Who, I don't know, guaranteed me an equal position compared to other citizens who could buy a social apartment for 5 or 8 thousand marks or for not getting a single share? I claim that the craftsmen under the same conditions, if we are going in that direction, should be allowed to gain business space from both the state and clearly from our cities or municipalities. I'll do it again. Only craftsmen are citizens of the Republic of Croatia who received nothing from the Republic of Croatia at the time of transition. However, they do not even ask for anything, but simply to be given the opportunity to buy this business space and it must be in the country where we sold all the banks to foreigners, it does not matter that those legal persons are registered in the Republic of Croatia, meaning Croatian legal persons, in which we sold 400,000 so-called countries. social flats where we sell INA to, combined, steel, iron, the only problem seems to be business spaces at this time, with a size of 30, 50 or 70 m2. However, I argue once again, it seems to be an injustice to one category of citizens and they are knowingly so discriminated against other citizens of the Republic of Croatia. The HNS proposes the right of the old tenant's championship, but also adds the rights of defender. I wouldn't want to just find the old tenants in a worse position than the defenders and have them forced into the street now and then trade those premises further as it is known to do with us. That's not how it can be. The old craftsman must have the advantage. It's got to have an advantage. Well, now you're not going to send someone who has some business space of 10, 15 or 20 years now to the street overnight. Where's he going? In Mr Piplovic, or Brletić's proposal, this proposal is missing in part of Article 6(3), but I think it is better than the CNS personally, and I think that if the state is going in that direction to begin to "dispose" freely with those spaces, then there must be local self-government in the same position.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-22-0.u20533	The HSS Club, Honorable Representative Zeljko Pecek, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-22-0.u20534	Thank you very much. Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. What about this bill? In fact, it would be best to say nothing this time, except that it is a good copying school of the HSS proposal that was sent here in the procedure at the Parliament on March 25th, so that the same explanation and quality proposal was in the process and it would be best to silence this, except that the law successfully photocopyed and even with the same explanation. However, there will be a paradox here that we will nevertheless support this proposal in the first reading with good faith that in addition to copying and, in addition to some solutions, find a better approach to craftsmen and small and medium-sized entrepreneurs who use the business space owned by the state, and would like to buy it for long-term business purposes or take it for long-term rent. In fact, what is the difference between the March 25th HSS proposal and this DC proposal, or Mr Piplopic's proposal? The difference is that we also talked about the advantage of selling should be craftsmen, small and medium-sized entrepreneurs. We said how that space should be sold, how to determine the price, how to define discounts. We said something about the content of the contract and the method of payment, and also about the purpose of the funds that are collected in this way. However, DC simply said that - all of this will regulate the government by its regulation. Here, it's a good interesting practice here in the Parliament, so I suggest that, for example, When we amend the Family Law, we make a proposal - we will amend the Family Law, all changes to the law will be regulated by the Government by its regulation and we have facilitated our work in Parliament. In fact, we're going to have a lot less paper, a lot less to read, and the government is going to do all that quality, obviously, for us. This is a copying that's even misspelled. However, in the second reading, a songwriter should probably read again what the HSS proposed and by law define what would be given in jurisdiction completely unnecessary to the government. I don't see any reason for the government to regulate that. But what is also interesting, the HSS proposal came under the government's negative opinion, and here on the DC proposal came positively. Interesting. However, if these two proposals were to be scored, it is absolutely certain that the HSS proposal would get a lot more points because it has better regulation of this area. However, it is absolutely certain that according to the DC model as we have seen in the judiciary, the one with fewer points would be given the advantage. So much for the law. We will support him with the hope that in the second reading he will be better and that he will respect everything the HSS has set out in his first proposal. What's the message to the craftsmen? Here's the best message through these dates. As of March 25th, the HSS proposal has slowed down in procedure, been rejected here on committees, the government's negative opinion is being obtained, we are now in September, and again we have one proposal identical only to other parties who, of course, get positive opinions even if we could have done it a few months ago and done it. The same is true in craftsmen and in the execution of budgets. 20 and some of the programmes planned to help this extremely important economic sector in Croatia are not realised at all, zero. Potatoes in the budget, not for a craftsman, nor spent kuna. And a sentence on the HNS proposal that is much more quality, which the HSS will also support because of an extremely important sector called crafts and small entrepreneurship, but we hope that in the second reading and the HNS will better prepare this law. We believe that the advantage of automation should not be given to all existing tenants, because unfortunately they still have companies that are in bankruptcy and a number of such companies that should not be given the advantage of automation as the most favourable tenant. We would like units of local self-government to define their relationship precisely to space and to say what they would like in certain areas of the city. We would also like to see here and that priority is given to craftsmen and small and medium-sized entrepreneurs if we swear by them and when we explain this law, then we could probably write it that way. In that case, the HSS will support this bill in a second reading.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-22-0.u20535	Thank you very much. You do not need to report for correction of an incorrect quote or for something else, as a proponent during the debate you always have the right to take the word and explain and explain. Is that what you want? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-22-0.u20536	I just want to correct the incorrect allegations of colleagues from Pecek... /The speaker is off, it is not heard./... who have received space by public tender and those who meet the contractual obligations neatly. They're paying rent and they're legally... [[You can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-22-0.u20537	On behalf of the Club of HSP Representatives, the esteemed representative of Slaven Letica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-22-0.u20538	Dear Mr. Shex, we have two small laws of great importance for Croatian society, for urban life in Croatian cities, Croatia is a country of cities, for Croatian culture and for Croatian business future. Even if I had a bad idea about Mate Brletić's legal proposal, I would have supported him because he came to Parliament as my neighbor, a self-secret Baranjac, a Croatian warrior and left without anyone noticing. So if he's watching us, good morning, Mr. Mate. So we should respect good people, and now I'm going to say something about a problem called small craftsmen and entrepreneurs. The HSP club will certainly send in the parliamentary procedure, soon send one material to discuss this complex problem, because this is not just about craftsmanship and small entrepreneurship, it is about art crafts, traditional crafts, intellectual crafts. What we call small craftsmen and small entrepreneurs are two concepts. There are two kinds of human beings living in this magical world. First, they are really small craftsmen, family entrepreneurs who have neither emotional needs nor aspirations nor ambition to develop a big business and second are incubators of the future big business. Yesterday I was visiting with colleagues from the HSP Club the second most successful Croatian company that developed from small crafts, production and sale of flowers. So we have today at home work, in garages, in rented and purchased areas the invisible world of future artisans, artists, inventors, creators and therefore it is important to pay much more attention to this problem, because it does not only come to the problem of buying business space, the right to hire, the problem of renting, but also to the problem of tax policy, flat taxation, keeping business books, lending, etc. When it comes to Croatian cities and business management policies owned by these cities, I will say why I will not be able to support either personally or on behalf of the club the proposal of the HNS Club. Because of the fact that the HNS Club, i.e. Mr. Srecko Ferenčak, has mastered the business premises of the City of Zagreb in a rather strange way. Namely, in my immediate neighborhood, I was drawn by the citizens' hands and pointed to the fact that the elite premises in my street had been leased mostly two or four kunas about it, something Mr. Ferencak would know more, mostly to political parties. The most prestigious business space in the City of Zagreb, the most beautiful business space in the City of Zagreb, is the most touching business space in the City of Zagreb, which is the business space of the Croatian territory on Knez Mislava Street from 6 to 10. I woke up one morning, I went out on the street, and I saw something big going on there, big investments there. There was always business there. People produced, placed, produced skins, worked tends, met and it was the centre of the true urban Purgatory Zagreb crafts and crafts business, and then the citizens told me that it was supposed to be obtained by the Croatian People's Party. Since I learned to function factographically, on September 6th I sent the mayor of the City of Zagreb to Mrs. Vladić, who I had previously talked to on the phone, a memo, asking to explain to me whether or not the investor is on it and who will be the future users, and by the way, I congratulated her on the great humanitarian gesture that she invited these unhappy children and parents to come to Zagreb. On her behalf, after the telephone interventions on September 13th, Mr. Zeljko Uhlir, graduated. ing. The town, which says it is true that this business space is in a street place which, by common sense and by a successful owner of the City of Zagreb, will never be awarded to a political party or any other... institution, but should be used to produce something intellectual, Croatian art, preserving the traditional crafts of Zagreb that fail which are not only economic value but are also the cultural value of this city. And that's why we have to have completely different space rental policies, leases, for different types of crafts, we should make some sort of trade classification, art crafts, traditional crafts, incubators of future crafts. And then this gentleman tells me that it is true that this space has been assigned to the Croatian People's Party but says the said space is located in an unattractive zone for commercial and similar activities and has always been used as a workshop. To remind you, this is a space next to the Sheraton Hotel in the traditional street where the owner was more the Croatian peasant party, which is not taking care of his own properties, lost much and the current Ministry of Defence, which was a workshop for studying Croatian poverty by various crafts and about the possibility of returning the building in perspective if it is going in this direction, should also be considered. The square of Croatian giants is nearby, and it is a step away from my apartment, so I am occupied by various political parties. And in that sense, gentlemen, there are norms and there is human honesty, and we must no longer allow one thing to be proposed in this House, offering some demagogue normative, and then somewhere in there in... these kinds of affairs that must be prevented. This time, I call on the Croatian representatives and the Croatian public, and I therefore conclude, that the immediate and unsustainable assignment of that space should be suspended and that it should return or the Academy of Design, it is fantastic, there are two cariatives down at the entrance to that building or that various other Zagreb craftsmen, artists and that this jewel of Croatian urban space is preserved for Croatian culture and prevented from harsh force and abduction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-22-0.u20539	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations by the respected representative Ljubica Lalić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-22-0.u20540	I thank Mr. President, so the truth is doing a very mild correction because the esteemed colleague Letica said that the Croatian Peasant Party lost its property due to negligence. Not a colleague lost, but the Croatian Peasant Party this year marks 100 years of existence, one who knows the history of the Croatian Peasant Party then knows that its large properties and Croatian works and economic style are nationalised and taken away. It's because there's a restitution process going on, is this going to be a lucky thing to get it back? We'll see.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-22-0.u20541	Dear Representative Zeljko Pecek corrects the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-22-0.u20542	It is true that the Croatian Peasant Party has lost its property, however, has made a timely request, but it is true that in the first proposal we were just trying to avoid taking advantage of city property, in the property owned by the state of the Republic of Croatia's political party. We wanted the advantage to be given to craftsmen and small and medium entrepreneurs, and in that very sense was the proposal of our Law. So HSS policy has been known in history and is also known today.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-22-0.u20543	On behalf of the HNS-PGS Club, the esteemed representative, Srecko Ferenčak.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-22-0.u20544	Dear Mr. President, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs. Proposal to amend and supplement the Law on the lease of business space proposed by counterpart Brletić, now colleague Piploić in Article 3. The proposal for a law is added to a new article governing the issue of direct allocation of business space owned by units of local self-government. The invitation to paragraph 1 of this article addresses the issue of the sale of business premises owned by the Republic of Croatia. The proposed amendments give certain persons the right to design and lease a business space without conducting a public tender. And which is contrary to the basic intensities of the law that business premises are leased through a public tender. The lease of business space through a public tender ensures transparent management of the property of units of local self-government and enables equal participation of all interested persons. In interpreting its law, the Proposer calls for the implementation of the constitutional principle of fairness and equality of all and entrepreneurial equality, but this is exactly the kind of proposal that favours only one narrow group in violation of those principles. Enabling the creation of leases without public tendering only puts one group of all other entities in an unequal position as this gives one a greater legal and economic security than others and creates the possibility of abuse. The same provision gives the Republic of Croatia the right to determine what is and which is not in the interest of the owner or units of local self-government. In this way, the right of the owner to decide on the management and availability of his or her assets is also directly affected by the decisions of the local self-government unit on its own economic development. Therefore, such a proposal for a law contrary to the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, which has already been said here. In its explanation of this proposal, the Proposer points out as an important fact that such a bill favours local self-government units in a way that reduces their costs for conducting a public tender. So, I have to say funny, and it's not said that in this way they're coming out of the budget with significant resources that they could get by renting their own space. Where the trap of this proposal is hidden from counterpart Brletić or Mr Piplopic, the proponent under the code of protection of small craftsmen is passing such an anti-constitutional proposal that goes directly to the damages of local self-government units. This view stems from the most likely ignorance of the fact that old crafts and craftsmen and small entrepreneurs who do not make significant profits are only 5% of the total tenants and are the largest part of the profitable activities of catering and trade, so at least in the City of Zagreb, it is most likely in all units of local self-government. With this proposal, we give them the opportunity to make high profits at the expense of small, rent and... local self-government units. So activities must be subject to competition and public competition so that units of local self-government can maximise their revenues and then re-enter... cities to return them to their citizens. Certainly local self-government units must ensure that the protection of old crafts and crafts such as urns, carpenters, hairdressers, umbrellas and similar crafts, which are needed by citizens of each city and they cannot achieve high profits by their activities. However, this must be determined in another way, such as city decisions on privileged rents for such activities as in the City of Zagreb, an agreement has been reached with the craft chamber of Zagreb and Croatia, and the giving of locals with an exact purpose for these activities so that cafes, pastry and other profitable activities cannot be opened. This bill puts everything in the same basket, old craftsmen remain in the old position and everyone else gets extra profits and... and damage to local self-government units. This Law is therefore extremely unfair for both entrepreneurs and local self-government units. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the lease of business space offered long ago by the Croatian People's Party and I must say that last year we referred this Act to the procedure, here it is only now that it has come to order, it has allowed old tenants to stay in their premises, the city's decision protects the old trade and everything else has to go to the market where the rules are transparently determined and it is possible for all entrepreneurs to participate equally in the competition and local self-government units to maximise profits. From all the above mentioned Club of Representatives of the Croatian People's Party and the Primorje Mountain Alliance will not support this bill submitted by the esteemed colleague Piploic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-22-0.u20545	Let's move on to the debate. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community, Honored Representative Drazen Bosnjakovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-22-0.u20546	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. Here we have the bill of law of two clubs and in the last session with the same theme we also had the proposal of the law of colleagues from the HSS in this topic. This means that it is actually a great deal of interest and that in practice there is absolutely certainly a need for the current regulation that certain relationships are related to the lease of business space owned by the Republic of Croatia, the counties, cities and municipalities to intervene in the existing regulation and to bring about certain changes. We rejected the proposal of a colleague from the HSS because the proposal was, in fact, determined by the obligation to sell space under the conditions set out in that law by the Proposer. We felt it was wrong to oblige neither the Republic of Croatia nor the cities or municipalities to sell their business premises. That is why we have two entirely different proposals here where in some way the current tenant is trying to protect himself, in a way with the proposal of a colleague from DC, in a way that gives municipalities the possibility to the Republic of Croatia, the counties and cities to be given the opportunity to extend the lease agreement with that tenant who is a small businessman and who, of course, properly fulfils his obligations. This is therefore only a possibility, so it is not the obligation of the municipality, cities and counties they can, of course, call a tender if they think they will achieve a better price or find a better tenant. This is only one option for colleagues from the HNS, the PGS, to retain the Institute of Public Competition, but in this public tender, they give priority to these groups that they are. I must say that we from the HDZ Club, we are more comfortable with the proposal of our DC counterparts and we will support this proposal from DC colleagues and we believe that it will be a very good solution especially for those small municipalities that have one or two business spaces in which there is a tenant who has been around for many years and who, in fact, in this business space, performs some activity of interest for that municipality or for that city. And actually, in such a particular case, a public tender might not have made sense because in principle there may be no one interested in who would come forward and the public competition would really be just a cost. And that is why we believe that this is a good solution and that, in any case, it should be introduced into the existing regulation. What I think is a little missing in both one proposal and another proposal is actually in the explanation, it's actually some simulation to see how many of these business spaces there are, how many of these craftsmen are and what these changes are actually going to bring on the ground, and what can be expected from that. I also think that the procedure relating to the DC proposal should also be carried out, in relation to the extension of the lease agreement with the existing tenant, that it is precisely in the law and that it means the period on which the contract is extended. The HDZ Club will therefore support’ the proposal of a colleague from the DC. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-22-0.u20547	Thank you very much. We're moving on to an individual debate. She is the first female representative, Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-22-0.u20548	Thank you. Your Honor, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-22-0.u20549	Excuse me, ma'am.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-22-0.u20550	I'd end up giving a few words after Yeah, yeah. [[Intruder: You can end up, you don't have to now]] Okay.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-22-0.u20551	I'm sorry, I didn't notice that. I didn't notice but it can always come out, but it's usually waiting to hear the debate and then look back at some... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-22-0.u20552	I'm sorry. You'll forgive me for these small indiscretions until I play with you like you've been played so far. So thank you to colleagues who have tried to contribute to the clubs either to dispute the arguments and arguments that make these amendments and amendments to the law, or yes, thank those who supported us in all of this. I must say, first of all, that the Democratic Center when it proposed these amendments and the additions of the Law on the lease of business space had no figure in its pocket, so that it would want to counter something, something suspicious, and I believe here after these public searches through the debate that so far there were no neural points, some, some hidden points of some future tumor that might have arisen from, resulting in a number of problems for people and society as a whole. Mr. Mato Arlović, on behalf of the SDP's Club of Representatives, made several remarks, however, because the Democratic Centre when he proposed, you are clearly told here that we want to favour craftsmen for a number of reasons, or small businessmen. Because those in competition with large firms on the market are in a completely unequal position. Large companies have the opportunity to offer a far higher price and clearly do, in such a way and come to rent that space. We said clearly that we see practical, concrete measures in all of this to achieve the development of craftsmanship and small entrepreneurship in every local environment. Of course big commercial houses can go to the competition for that special space and if units of local administration and self-government assess that and they can earn that kind of money somewhere, so they're not being defended here. The thing about them is how they will deal with their property. And with these additions and legislation, the possibility of helping, as a society, as authorities at local and national level, to help craftsmen and small entrepreneurs. The Investment Encouragement Act is intended as an incentive measure, I will now quote: “Selling or giving on the use of real estate owned by the Republic of Croatia under special conditions and benefits, and in extremely justified cases and without compensation or giving of real estate to the Croatian Privatisation and Property Fund of the Republic of Croatia.” However, from these, but also from all other encouraging measures, are exceptional gentlemen representatives, craftsmen with a saying because under the promoters are considered exclusively a commercial company registered in the Republic of Croatia. Other small-scale operators are also excluded from the incentive measures. In view of the fact that the incentive measures can only be achieved for long-term assets invested at a minimum value of 2 million kuna. These measures also exclude all companies which do not carry out the activities of the processing industry and tourism and research and development. Do such provisions ensure a level playing field on the market for all entrepreneurs? Of course they don't. Our legislative proposal clearly expresses interest in the development of the Croatian economy through the stability and development of the small economy. Therefore, as in the case of the Investment Encouragement Act, we have decided to encourage, encourage the development of certain entrepreneurs. The Democratic Centre believes that, in addition to declarative support for small economy development, the development and survival of craftsmen and other small-scale operators should be encouraged through clearly concrete measures contained clearly in this proposal. Small businesses are the basis for economic development and possible solutions to reducing unemployment. Remember that almost 50% of employees in the Republic of Croatia work in crafts and small businesses. That's what's the most, makes our economic base. Move along the small economy line are at the centre of attention, but their use will increase significantly if more accessible and longer-term safe business space is made as proposed by our bill. And it's said here that we want to correct an injustice against craftsmen that I wouldn't want to repeat here. We have no intention of asking to amend here now the Constitution, for this reason, and each government has the right to rule and manage its resources and its potential in its own space, etc. Furthermore, on behalf of the IDS Club, counterpart Damir Cain has also provided support here, however, gives one proposal to be installed in Article 6, paragraph 3, so that they can be sold or sold, sold as well as for the business space owned by the State. If what the owner is going to do with his space, he's going to sell him, we don't know. The initiative should come from the owners themselves. As far as the state is concerned, this bill or paragraph 3 of Article 6 is concerned, since the state is the owner, we can and we make such a proposal to open valves in this direction and that the state is often a bad master and that these business spaces are a kind of stimulant, and that, in this case, we are going to build such a provision that we are actually going to force the owners of business space within the local administration and self-government not to do so in this case. Mr. Pacek mentioned on behalf of the HSS Club that it was actually a copying school, that it was prescribed. I really don't know whether it's prescribed or not, but if it's prescribed, if it's good, I always like to learn from it, from those who do good and think good. I personally didn't prescribe it, I didn't prescribe it, after all, we all live under the same roof of God, living the same trouble. We have the same legal regulations, so if there's a match somewhere, it's understandable that it's for those reasons. But it's not about any copying. Why didn't he pass your proposal, I really don't know. But let's get this proposal through, so let's get out of the dead end. Mr. Ferenchuck, on behalf of the HNS Club, brought out some things here that just don't stand. There's no possibility of any possible abuse here. Because nobody here touches the property of local administrations and self-government. No one touches the law and the autonomy of local self-government which will work with their property, what conditions will they prescribe. What price they'll be looking for, that's their thing. And we simply open up the possibilities here that if those who regularly pay, those who do in certain g works and parts of cities correspond to the identity of these cities with their crafts, and pay neatly, to give them that space for rent. And finally here's the club HDZa has here given us also support. I'd just say that as far as the other objections are concerned, which is that we'll accept all the good remarks, and we'll install them. Clearly, unless they're turning from this basic course, or the basic goal we're trying to achieve. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-22-0.u20553	Thank you very much. Here's what ended up being reported in ten minutes, at 10.58. And now, with an apology, I ask Mrs. Igred Anticevic Marinovic to take his word for 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-22-0.u20554	Thank you again, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. So today we are discussing two proposals that require amendments and additions to one and the same law. The law on the lease of business space. One bill, one amendment proposal was made by DC-related former colleague Mato Brletic, who is now a new colleague from DC. It's a play. And who it is and who it is, which will be later and explained why it is now important to say, are in a coalition with the ruling HDZ party. On the other hand, we have a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Business Area Law, so identically the law wants to be amended, the Law on the Hire of Business Space. Which is proposed by the HNS Club PGS opposition club. It's a very interesting opinion of the government. The same day it was written, so we can't say that the government missed something, maybe forgot about all sorts of jobs and so on. So, the government writes its opinion to the President of the Croatian Parliament, which we all received, on 20 May 2004. Well then, when the government points out the bill proposed by the DC, it says very briefly, "The government supports the proposal. When it looks back and gives an opinion on the bill submitted by the HNSA club, the government then writes on the same day that it cannot accept these amendments to the law on the lease of business space because the government has also tasked the Ministry of Justice, and the Ministry of Environmental Protection, Spatial Planning and Construction. Ministry of Economy. And that it prepares a complete amendment to this law on the lease of business space. It's easy to unbelief. So when it's proposed by one club then it's prepared by aragumethin anchotraraio, it means it's not prepared. When it comes to the proposal of a representative from DC. Likewise, when referring to the amendment bill and supplementing the law proposed by the HNS PGSA club. Then he points out one notorious lie, contrary to the state's attorney's opinion. When he says that the proposed provisions are wanted by the HNSA PGS club, which he proposes to apply, he says that it is not necessary because these provisions contain the Law on the lease of business space in transitional and final provisions. And the state's attorney's office in several cases, I think it's already clear, so ultimately it's clear from the amendments proposed by the representative of DC, that these changes are necessary and necessary. There's as much government as there is. A little bit more on the content of one and the other pyredologists. I think it is absolutely unacceptable that this proposal was submitted by Mato Brletić from DC, and why. First of all, it's because I think it's anti-constitutional. Because he's making a rough attack on local self-government units. We've already had a chance to see how the government collapsed on the independence of local self-government units. So where she's in power, they're insecure. And now we see what he's doing in terms of property. The property of the local self-government unit. Which is its property, which it has the right to dispose of under the Constitution. And the legality of her acts we know is regulated by law. However, this proposal wants to avoid the law. So it is said in Article 3 of the proposal to supplement the law of the new article, that, in the interest of the Republic of Croatia without a public tender, what we will spend on public tender is an important impression, which will give us some transparent conditions. So not only will it be given what is the interest of the Republic of Croatia when it will be the interests of the Republic of Croatia when we want to give it to Janko. And when Marco's looking, it's not a state interest. Therefore, it is obvious that the ground is already being prepared to hide, for, therefore, narrow private interests of the already good old custom behind and behind the general interests of the state. It's not good, it's not good for any government, it has to be transparent, and clear. So there's no more public competition here. Already here, colleagues from the HSS pointed out from the HNS, so what needs to be pointed out will be re-proved by the government by its regulation. The interest will be the Republic of Croatia to master the business premises owned by the municipality, the cities of the county and the city of Zagreb. That's really outrageous. unheard and against the Constitution. I must point out that during the coalition government, the state was giving its unused premises to units of local self-government. Not seeing who's in charge. However, this is also the constitutional duty set out in Article 137(3). Where the state is obliged to help financially weaker units. But not yet to take away their property and such a humble property. And even more absurd on non-transparent terms. Because it is further said and suggested that the government will redecorate the price later, and the way in which the price is determined, and in particular every business, discount that will be recognised by the customer, so one will, one won't, completely unclear, when it's both clear and comatized. The way you pay, so maybe even in nature, I don't know, the way you pay, and the content of the sales contract and the purpose of the funds. Likewise with this same business space, the state will then, if it is a state interest, have and give free, of course, again without a public tender, to certain political parties. That's really outrageous. And what needs to be achieved by the amendments so much, and it is good that this proposal of the Club of Representatives of the CNS and the PGS, and the truth is that the HSS has proposed a very similar law, that the Law on the Hire of Business Spaces indeed requires changes in that part. But exactly the protection of what was already here when Mr. Ferenchuck, on behalf of the HNS Club, explained to the PGS, so to protect these tenants, the tenants who have old trades, trades. It's very sad to see where the carpenter wrote, and suddenly you come, or it's a coffee shop or something much more profitable. So the intensity of these people was, and it's also the interest of every unit of local self-government, so we see in Germany how in certain cities, right in the heart of the city, they even give them these spaces for free to save old crafts, because they're not only what we need, but they're very attracted to tourists. So, first of all, it has to be that units of local self-government, and in that sense, the state needs to encourage exactly that kind of orientation. And that's why it seems to me that it's worth this proposal, it can even be done until the second reading, and it can also enable buying, not just the right of the championship. But in any case, in a very transparent and clear way, it was said that the former tenant whose lease contract was concluded by the basis of the contract provision had expired that, through the deadline, he was properly fulfilling all obligations, had the right to, therefore, the championship, also in the course of the competition, to remain in that space. So, very clearly, and basically I say, the main grudge cannot be hidden here behind this proposal. Even if such an intention, no one can believe in these intentions, because it is very non-transparent, so everything we wanted to achieve, is gone, the state is touching the ownership of the local self-government unit, I repeat, instead of encouraging, instead of helping local self-government units. Unfortunately, that's not the case. Here, and Minister Shuker has promised to have funds in the budget for all units of local self-government to approve their duties, but we know that local self-government units, which, which have a good budget, are unable to obtain approval. Of course, because they're not devious to the current government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-22-0.u20555	Thank you very much. We have three corrections to the incorrect assumption that I, of course, once again, as the president has said, the legislators can come forward whenever they want, so there's no need for them to show up if it's not necessary to correct an incorrect quote. I can include it in my debate. Here comes Mr. Frano Piplojic, for correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-22-0.u20556	Dear colleague Ingrid Antičević has made several false statements here. I expected a lot more arguments and less pranks. No, it's not, it's said here that a lot of things are unconstitutional, in this proposal of ours, have not given any evidence of this contradiction. On the contrary, this is where we are honored to be touched by property. Ma'am, my dear colleague, it doesn't touch anyone's property, it doesn't touch the competition institution either, the competition remains, but only opens the possibility, so it opens up the possibility that it's possible, that it can be given in the same way as we suggested. Furthermore, the interest of the Republic of Croatia is certain to preserve its identity, help crafts, plan space, open opportunities to local administrations and self-government to preserve their identity. You can't be saying that you're trying to get people from the white world who have a little more money and that one day we won't recognize the streets of the city of Zagreb or any of the others. So, I'd like to beg... Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-22-0.u20557	Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect allegations, Mr. Representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-22-0.u20558	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. As my colleague Piploić said, too many lies have been said, so I will look back at them later in my advance, but it seemed important for the public to correct the incorrect allegations, because the first incorrect assumption is that this proposal of the DC law is affecting the rights of municipalities and cities. That's completely incorrect. That's what I'll say later in my explanation. Then, it is entirely incorrect for the government to treat certain municipalities and cities because they are not the same break in government in these municipalities, otherwise. It was a practice of the former government. And when a colleague talks about transparency, then I guess their way of transparency in which even the Prime Minister didn't know where budget state money was being spent, that's probably a good example of them. I absolutely disagree with that and it's incorrect.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-22-0.u20559	Thank you very much. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Mrs Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-22-0.u20560	The honourable representative has injured the Rules of Procedure, Article 209. He was correcting my exact quote, not correcting an incorrect quote, because here, I'll read it to you. Article 6 of Article 3 of the amendment proposes: "In the interest of the Republic of Croatia without a public invitation to tender, it is possible to rent a business space owned by municipalities, cities, counties and the city of Zagreb."
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-22-0.u20561	Thank you very much. Correction of an incorrect quote, Mr. Jure Bitunac.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-22-0.u20562	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. counterpart Ingrid Anticevic said the following - The state was without exception during the former coalition government giving premises, business premises owned and owned by local self-government units regardless of the political option in the local self-government unit. Unfortunately, that's not true. I'll make an exception, because she said no exceptions. The exception is Sinj, one request, when it comes to the town of Sinj, stood three years before the former government and only two months old, the problem was solved. It's the Alkarian Courts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-22-0.u20563	Thank you very much. Correction of an incorrect quote, Mr. Vlado Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-22-0.u20564	Mr. Vice-President, I am correcting Mrs. Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic's incorrect allegations in the part where she said that the current government has a selective approach to the possibility, i.e. the inability to lend units to local self-government, depending on whether it is insecure or insecure to the current government. I'm correcting that because I come from one such unit of regional self-government that calls it, where the ruling coalition is there, and that's because of some other circumstances, and not because of the inaccuracy of the current government, it's not possible to assign that unit to local self-government.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-22-0.u20565	Thank you very much. We're moving on to an individual discussion. Mr. Representative Miroslav Korenika, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-22-0.u20566	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues. Proposers. I have to start by saying that it seems to me that we have a situation again, and that's a message to everyone that the government has strayed from its principle. So far, all the laws that the MPs may have given, especially from the opposition benches, have given their subject-matter spotlessly and very quickly. This time she remained consistent, she didn't give and probably because, and that's also the message to HSS because, and that's also the message to HSS, because she supported the law given by a coalition partner, so the power of God doesn't see, we understand what the reasons are. It's clear to me, and I won't support DC law for a number of reasons. The first one is because I always stand in every place for a public competition. The fact is, we're gonna get the highest bid in the public competition and let's not talk here right now, and there's a message to Mr. Caine who's not here right now. We all complain that local self-government units don't have enough income for their normal lives and work. Local self-government units have come to business spaces in different ways. Some buy them regularly, and their wish is also the only way to additionally finance and use other programs is to get as much money as they can from renting business spaces. By the way, I'm asking the proposer of both laws. So who's been preventing local self-government and state units so far means the government from selling certain business premises. Representative bodies, i.e. the headships and the Government have property owned by the Republic of Croatia, i.e. the unit of local self-government, and if they consider it an interest to sell business space to craftsmen, small entrepreneurs, no one has ever prevented them from selling it in existing laws. The other thing is that what we should do, what part of the local self-government units are doing, to recognise the investments so far in business spaces, of course, that the units of local self-government that have most of the space, I think that when we talk about counties, they are minor in ownership of business areas, that certain units of local self-government, means cities and less municipalities and so far have a strategy of having their own property and that they can also determine in certain areas whether they want to have some service activities in certain business areas, meaning crafts, whether they are autochtonous old crafts, or whether they want to be left to pay due to the interest of money and everything else that in public procurement especially in the centres of attractive parts of cities comes as many highly profitable shops, banks and all that they can pay larger amounts. Therefore, the fact is that local self-government wants to get as much money as possible, and that is why it is going to public competitions to bring those highly profitable activities to the heart of the city. What I consider to be a grudge and what I believe is that the HNS bill has been better resolved, and this government and this majority have always respected us while in opposition, as little care is being taken of by Croatian defenders. My lords, under the same conditions in the contest I am for the current tenant to have priority and priority. Others who need priority are Croatian defenders. Only the gentlemen of the government from the majority coalition, if you know that the proposal on the rights of Croatian defenders will be defined, because they are full of the mouth of Croatian defenders when they need something concrete to do, and then you are against the CNS proposal that defines it. It seems to me that the same previous government and the previous composition of the Parliaments wanted to admit it or not, did a lot to develop craftsmanship. There were lots of credits for craftsmen, lots of incentive funds. It seems to me that the government doesn't know what a tail does either. A few months ago, we also passed the Law on the Community Economy where one part of the craftsmen related to funeral services simply one act of the law made their work impossible especially in transport and everything else. It seems to me that by the second reading, we should also get numerical indicators. How much does the Government, or the Republic of Croatia, owns business premises, by the means of what they are, whether they are production spaces or are office premises, and also about companies, and in particular, to see what they are and how they are local self-government units. I'm particularly in favour of a public competition. The interest of local self-government is to raise as much money as possible. I'll end up with it all the time, we're always complaining that local self-government doesn't have enough money, it's a message to Mr. Cain, he'd sell out what local self-government units have and later we'll ask for an additional redistribution of tax resources in favour of local self-government units. Let's say by which date and when that line is when we're going to sell out or when, according to this bill, we should and by what time unit of local self-governments sell out their business spaces if they're willing to sell out, because after that, local self-government, especially the one who's taking care of it, is going to buy new spaces, so that in 5, 10 years someone doesn't impose on her again, you have to resell your business space. In addition, it may be possible, along with this public tender, that business spaces for the safety of those who live in them, to set much longer deadlines in which the tenants will be, because then they have far more opportunities to invest in them and that they can make a real economic calculation. So in the end, I support the HNS proposal. I don't support DC's proposal just because I'm against every imposition for sale, he doesn't impose that he has to, he can. However, the existing laws of government or headship in local self-government units can also make a decision and no one prevents them from selling business spaces. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-22-0.u20567	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-22-0.u20568	I'm sorry, it's probably the wrong report. I didn't sign up for this point.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-22-0.u20569	Thank you very much. Mr. Frano Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-22-0.u20570	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I will look back at the debate so far, but most of all, I will commit myself to the law proposed by the promoter from the DC, the Democratic Centre. Already, a representative of the Croatian Democratic Community has said the reasons why we will not accept the HNS and PGS proposal, so I will not look back on that. In fact, in the debate we could hear so far, how this proposal rudely encroachs on the rights of local self-government. It is simply not true, because it was precisely the proposal that we had before at the meeting of the Assembly, which was proposed by the HNS, that it was precisely about to get into the rights of local self-government units in a way that business premises had to be sold according to the proposal. So the units of local self-government committed themselves to selling these business spaces of which many live well and fill their budgets, so they had to sell to those who were then, or those who then used that business space. So such a single proposal, of course, was not accepted. There's something completely different about this. It is not affecting the rights of the unit of local self-government but is said to be in the interest of the Republic of Croatia without a public tender, but I say without a public tender and this area owned by municipalities, cities, county and the City of Zagreb, which means that these same units of local self-government without public competition and in the interest of the Republic of Croatia will be given such one such proposal to their units representative bodies for adoption. So it's not about rough getting into the rights of local self-government units. I must say that, after the move of my colleague Anticevic, I am simply encouraged to say a few cases that occurred during the former government, it is about spaces, business spaces in the city of Dubrovnik. In the past period, the state has come into possession of certain business spaces located in the city center, i.e. the historic core of the city of Dubrovnik, and at the request of the local self-government units, specifically the city of Dubrovnik, which has requested that these premises settle for use, has simply not responded to any further management, and has not taken into account that the monumental core is that it is a protected cultural heritage, but rather put it on the market to fill the budget for one single reason to fill the gaps in the budget, probably those budget holes that we talked about here when we talked about the deficit last year. And this proposal for a public tender was in the government and the government allowed and released the procedure and, of course, having no other way but to report the city of Dubrovnik for the purchase of these same business spaces that have reached truly astronomical amounts, you all know that in Dubrovnik the price of business space in the historical core of the city has already reached 10,000 euros per metre of square, which is certainly a unique example in Croatia and few cities in the world can achieve such a price of real estate at all. Therefore, it was not up to the interests of the local self-government units, but to fill the budget items and not to worry about who is the best master of these business spaces and who can give the best solutions, the city of Dubrovnik appeared fortunately to have no means to buy them, and the new government is fortunately I hope to solve this problem and in favour of all citizens of Dubrovnik not only for the benefit of those individuals who responded to the competition. So, it is not true, it is completely incorrect what counterpart Anticevic said in her address, and in fact she was speaking out of her personal practice and practice of her government about the indistinguishable units of local self-government because it was indeed in the past meeting when it really looked at who was in power in certain units of local self-government and those units that were in line with the ruling parties at state level gave them the possibility of both borrowing and other benefits that unfortunately other units could not achieve. As for this law to return to it, it gives the opportunity, to save those economic operators first of all, small entities that are really hard to survive on the market, but I think we must all together take account of the units of local self-government to the state, of traditional crafts and crafts, of what is really the national identity of Croatia, and I think that we should really define what kind of subjects are also talking about to Mr. Brletić, or Mr. Piplojic, who is now suggesting that the second reading be defined clearly as being the subject of a small economy that could come into this privileged position, because it is a truly privileged position. But it must be privileged for a particular reason, that reason can indeed be hidden in the protection of traditional crafts and crafts and I think it is the way in which it is best to actually prepare this bill for it to really be accepted in general. I have already said that the former HSS proposal included the mandatory sale of business premises owned by units of local self-government, this proposal provides the possibility of selling business spaces but owned by the Republic of Croatia. So, we are invited here to worry about the ownership of the Republic of Croatia and to make our proposals and I think that in this sense this Law is a step in relation to what we had here before us because it refers exclusively to those premises, those owned by the Republic of Croatia, and in that sense I welcome this possibility to be under special conditions and procedures that will be prescribed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia itself and these business premises can be sold to these economic operators. So what seems most important to me to point out is the definition that these are the subjects that can come that can be classified under this proposal right here. I think we can all say together that, of course, we're all in the interest of as many public competitions as possible, transparency is going to be less of a possibility of manipulation. I also use the opportunity to support Mr. Slaven Letica's proposal more as soon as I got the information just before one of the business spaces also in the City of Zagreb of 500 square meters was rented into a boxing club, owned by a member of the City Assembly, and then the price of that business space is 500 meters square amount of 2 or 3 kuna. So, I think such abuses should stop happening in this area, and I think that this bill would really improve this area and that we would have a clearer situation.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-22-0.u20571	Thank you very much. We have a replica, a correction of an incorrect quote. The replica was answered by Mr. Korenik, please be my guest.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-22-0.u20572	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. When this article 6a is so praised. I would like to get an explanation from Mr Matusic who will and in what way determine what it is and who is of interest to the Republic of Croatia and how in this case the price of the business space will be defined. If someone has been in a certain business space for 10 years, we must be aware that the location has been given meaning and everything else so that the price can be determined differently from the public tender. And by the way, a colleague with regard to Dubrovnik should not have gone to a public tender, the Government can always give its property to any unit of local self-government. This way, if the city doesn't have any money, it shows up for a contest, then how do we treat those who report to the competition, they secure the money and it turns out we cheated on them. Then the government could immediately without a public tender, as it had previously done, give way to business spaces, property and all other units of local self-government.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-22-0.u20573	The answer to the line, Mr. Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-22-0.u20574	As for the first colleague of the Korenika, this is exactly what I was talking about, that we should clearly define which address we are dealing with and, of course, that in that sense, we will see how much should be seen, which right this privileged position would be acquired to come into possession of a business space without a public competition. This is quite clear, therefore, because I have made my point to the promoter to define exactly what turns it is. As far as this other guy's concerned, the exact opposite happened, I did, and I just said you just didn't understand your colleague. The state of Croatia, the Republic, the government you led in your term of office, I spoke about it, so specifically Mr. Granic was in charge of these affairs and opened a tender for the sale of business premises located in the centre of the old historic town of Dubrovnik. The city of Dubrovnik asked not to call the competition but to make it available because it was a monumental core, it was a monument of culture and the city thought it had the strength and knowledge to manage in the best possible way these same business premises, but your authority did not give it, contrary to what you were talking about. Unlike the current government that will meet the city of Dubrovnik and make those very business premises available. That's what this is about.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-22-0.u20575	Thank you very much. Correction of Mr. Zeljko Pecek's incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-22-0.u20576	Thank you very much. It is incorrect that we should redefine what a craft or a small economy is because we have passed this by adopting a law on a small economy that also has incentive measures. We have also brought a small economy development programme that is rightly binding on the state to act in an adequate way to make it available to both small and medium-sized enterprises. And here, it's a little unusual to pour crocodile tears towards craftsmanship because we know that it's one layer of entrepreneurship that employs 250 thousand people, so we find it interesting as a electoral body and when in the process of laws that directly concern craftsmen, they wait in Parliament for six months. One absurd situation, and I suggest we don't act that way in the future.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-22-0.u20577	You have expressed your opinion, it could not be considered a correction to an incorrect assumption. But let's move on with this same practice until further notice. There are now 10 minutes of Mr. Ante Markov, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-22-0.u20578	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The debate on these two draft laws that want to regulate the same matter, which is the lease of business space, opened up a perfectly understandable and principled debate on character, would say misunderstandings of relations in this very important segment of the Croatian economy, which is small and medium-sized entrepreneurship, crafts, cooperatives and all that has a long-standing negative perception, a negative tradition attached to Croatian political and labour parks. And it is evident that the message for those 250 thousand people who work, live in crafts and small and medium entrepreneurship, if they listen to this debate does not go in that direction, in that direction that I absolutely believe was the subject of both laws. In fact, this segment of the Croatian economy, unlike some other developed countries with developed markets, is constantly under one special trap in Croatia. First of all, it is completely atomized, it is always with one negative perception of history, it has, it despises what is very often expressed in this Parliament, and it has an irregular scale in terms of priorities, and also encouraging priorities that durge activities do not have. Why is this so and why the most flexible, working most active, the most pro-pulsory part of the Croatian economy is still in this sense, and why trade, small and medium-sized entrepreneurship is thought of in one way that is often not affirmative and can cause different views. And on the occasion of the debate, I say of a segmentary which, in the proposal of one, and in the proposal of another law, wants to give an incentive motive and create a more positive platform based on which better conditions for business in crafts and entrepreneurship will be created. It is probably because of the misunderstanding or not having a sense of the character of the job that absolutely must find its proportion between local self-government, between the state and the status that this activity must have. The fact that neighbouring countries, primarily Italy which has over 60% of the total economy, is located in the area of small and medium-sized entrepreneurship and in those 50% more than 30% is cooperative. This is how one of the largest Italian companies especially in the developed northern part of business on the notion or under the auspices of cooperatives. Co-operations that are still synonym for socialism, for something that has been abandoned, for a project that cannot succeed, for something that simply doesn't have the right to vote in public. It is this fundamental misunderstanding of the concept of relations in the modern economy that leads us to the fact that sometimes empty discussions do not serve the objective that should be served and that as a legislative body, we make a contribution, we encourage the development of these volumes that can be worn in a market game, which can cope with new opportunities on the market, which are quickly adapted to everything that awaits us in Europe, which, in our Croatian times where they did not have a proper relationship, are successful in certain crafts, some small and medium economies come to the level that they can deal with their products on the world market. That market is clear and wider. Tourism is one of those markets that is not effectively used as a basis on which multiplicitial effects can create a whole series of activities through crafts, small and medium entrepreneurship. This debate should, above all, be focused on the Business Areas Act, in fact, to synthesize everything that is good for this form of entrepreneurship and to offer one whole way in which business spaces will become closer, clearly, under the principle of justice that must have their own market commitment, but which must primarily serve those who wish to work and who wish to expand their rights in the working economy. Furthermore, a whole series of facilities located in both local self-government and state-owned are still in the so-called. Inactive status, we still don't have a register of state property, we still don't know what it is that we can help the economy with this or that, in one way or another, we still don't use all those resources that aren't in any active use anyway. And for this reason, I believe that it is precisely on the trail of that strategy which was discussed in this Parlamettna 2, 3 years ago, within the framework of the measures of small and medium-sized entrepreneurship, that it is necessary to continue and reactivate this very strong segment of Croatian economy, to give it the opportunity to come into possession of those facilities, those buildings owned by the Croatian state or local self-government. But because of the administrative bureaucratic apparatus, it is very difficult to reach these positions regardless of whether you have a party that is in power or not in power behind you. In any case, it does not matter where the municipality is headed by this or that party if it cannot benefit and cannot show its own personal or public interest to obtain the property in question and that it serves the development of the economy. That's why all messages must be sent that way. I personally absolutely support the intensity and purchase and purchase of business space if it is in the interest of the development of the economy of this part of the law in question. The question of a public tender or not is the question that is being raised here, has often dominated the main reasons and problems that exist. And it should indeed be in the function of development of craftsmanship rather than the subject of debate in order to disprove it for or against it. Therefore, it is only an instrument and a measure that will, in a fair way, allow for the more lasting use of this business space to be fully and effective. And there is no reason to divide these and those craftsmen. For this reason, I will personally support the first reading and one and two draft laws but I expect that the second reading of these two laws will achieve a consensus that will be in the interest of those 250 thousand people who live, want to live and can develop and the perspective of the Croatian economy, the Croatian state is precisely in these small forces and not those multinational ones who will choose tomorrow and the Croatian Government, which will affect the composition of the Telecommunications Council and which will ultimately state tomorrow and what you gentlemen would like to discuss and discuss, is ours. Therefore, support for small and medium-sized entrepreneurship, craftsmanship as our historical orientation, as a safe part of this Croatian economy in which they have been preserved through tradition, reflection and way and the cultural and sociological values of this society. Therefore, this segment of the Croatian economy doesn't deserve sometimes an irresponsible debate that throws political ideas about who's right, who's wrong. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-22-0.u20579	I thank Mr. Markov. Now he's got the word Mr. Jure Bithugnac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-22-0.u20580	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues! Here I, as a representative, welcome every initiative that goes towards sustainable economic development, better and socially fairer conditions in any sphere of human life for both individual and single, for individual groups, and in this particular case for small craftsmen. I think that the amendments to the law in question should go in the direction of giving greater freedom to units of the area, local self-government on the design of the development of a small economy and entrepreneurship and greater security and protection of the tenants themselves. When it comes to areas owned by the Republic of Croatia, I believe that politics should go, it should be compatible with policies of lower, lower levels. So with community policies, cities. And I think that they should go in that direction to supplement the existing law. Of course, urban solutions and decisions by local self-government authorities should define areas of cities, areas of municipalities, areas of the streets in which certain activities will be carried out in the respect of European and global metropolis and through leases should be given full protection to craftsmen, tenants and small traders in the long term. Let me briefly refer to one law and another. Your proposal, which you have presented in Article 1, which means that the name of the Law on the Hire of Business Space is changed and the law is being amended, and you are proposing the following: the Law on the Hire of Business Area and its sale under special advantages. I'm absolutely booked here. I am reserved for the simple reason that the sale of business premises is defined, defined by other legislation. First of all, I mean the Law of Property, the Law, the Law of Public Procurement and other ways. I think this is in some way suggesting to units of local self-government, the county and the state that it would be the only way, the only way, and not the exception when it comes to selling under special circumstances, benefits. So I think that you should consider as a proposer that this part that talks about selling under special benefits from the name itself is my suggestion to delete. Also when it comes to the sale itself, I am reserved in the first row because if one city or one municipality long-term wants to give a chance to a certain group and, craftsmen, to certain craftsmen, I think it is a much better mechanism of privileged lease and it is long-term on a long track and it is one greater chance in terms of control. Each sale carries a stable risk in terms of its further sale, as in the case of expansion of housing and business prices, particularly in Dubrovnik, as counterpart Matušić used to speak. We, I believe, in one, in this proposal of yours, and also in the P.Z. proposal. 93 that the public tender in some way is inevitable, but Mr Letica mentioned a matter that is very important and sheds one new light to municipalities and cities, and thus the state should also carry out the classification of crafts, small traders, tenants, tenants, and thus enables them to have an existing law in their own provisions in Article 3. And that only individuals can report to a particular business space, means so far the tenant and all those who are doing exactly that activity, and not that we have in competition for the same business space on the one hand one who wants to have a cafe or some catering facility and on the other hand, who will be, who wants to continue his job as the carpenter. When it comes to the HNS proposal, the PGS... I am absolutely reserved because the right of the championship in the way that it is defined is not precisely defined so that we are in a situation that we do not know in fact who has the right of the championship which, the motionary is talking about. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] On the other hand, in one open auction, if it were not for the classification of certain crafts, and in accordance with Article 3 of the existing Law, I find that the right of the championship is not a great advantage for the current tenant because someone will offer with another activity a far larger amount of rent that this economically simply will not be able to bear. On my assessment of this PGS proposal, the HNS is absolutely lacking and could not and will not receive my personal support, and when it comes to the P.Z. bill's proposal. No. 92 Mr. Piplojic, I believe that it should be completed, that they should be in this proposal for a thorough amendment, and that today he would be “de facto” and accepted in this House. However, my position would personally be that the government and the competent ministries should process this matter, come out with, with a proposal to the Croatian Parliament, with one whole proposal. I'll say from home, the existing law needs to be well shaken. Define, determine strategic policy when it comes to small craftsmen both at the level of municipalities and cities both at the level of the county and state. I think that the state should in some way adapt itself to the units of local self-government and I think that we can ultimately vote together a good law that will be adopted and that will be of great benefit not only to the tenants but to the first row of those who work, workers who work in, in small craftsmen for the safety of them and their families. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-22-0.u20581	Thank you very much, Mr. Representative. The word is from Mrs. Alenka Koshasha Chichin-Shain. Here you go. Thank you very much. You're giving up. Now it's the MP's turn, Mrs. Katarina Fuchek.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-22-0.u20582	Mr. President, it's been an application since last time. I didn't sign up for this time.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-22-0.u20583	I thank you, too. Mr. Vladimir Plesko.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-22-0.u20584	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs in the Croatian Parliament! Today we are discussing a legal proposal, legislative proposals, amendments and additions to the Law on the lease of business space. I think that today's debate has shown one new dimension of these amendments and the addition of the law in part that the Croatian Parliament, the Government of the Republic of Croatia, should consider a complete solution to craftsmanship, as regards small entrepreneurship, about one economic activity, the economic branches in the Republic of Croatia that currently have the largest, the number of employees currently in growth, activities which, of which the Republic of Croatia and all of us expect to take one major battle to the economic part for the preservation of the Republic of Croatia and all the economic branches that exist. I also believe that this debate today also shows that there is a great interest in all MPs in this topic. I can explain it from a personal example with a few things because I come from a crafts family, a crafts family that has worked for years in manufacturing activities. And that's exactly how I know what the problems of craftsmen were 90 years ago when craftsmen were practically anti-state elements, when craftsmen from their employees are practically looking at what they have on their plate, whether they have more than a director, a utility company or a public firm. Do they have a better car than a director, or a civil servant, and they were called for proesis evasion, and practically then a witch hunt was opened. These witches were craftsmen in the past regime, and entrepreneurs who had only their own hands to achieve profit, and who fed their families in this way. Today, craftsmanship, small and medium entrepreneurship is actually one of the most flexible economic branches. Because when you look at an example of a small county such as Krapina Zagorska where a hundred crafts are shut down annually but 130 to 150 crafts open, it means that people can change their business very quickly so that they can overload from one craftsmanship to another, meaning from one crafts activity to another, thus practically increasing the number of employees systematically and not reducing what is very important to us in Croatia. Also in the part of craftsmanship and small entrepreneurship there is this largest employment increase index, there is the largest investment index in new technologies. And that's what the Republic of Croatia can get out of the economic crisis. That's why I have to mention some of the things I wrote down here as a problem in the existing laws. There are problems in part of the legal lease business space, because I know from the division of the local self-government unit that sometimes local self-government units give through the tenders their business premises to craftsmen that there is a problem with the collection means the claims that these local self-government units have towards craftsmen. Or entrepreneurs who have low-accumulated branches of activity. But I also know things when they tried to deliberately move craftsmen out of their facilities to move into these facilities some large multinational companies. And that's why the legislation has to be solved in a way that we all benefit from this. And the Republic of Croatia, Ministry of Finance and craftsmen who employ people. Speaking of people, I must remind this esteemed House that in the Republic of Croatia there are currently about 230 to 250 thousand people employed in crafts. If it's between 150 and 200 thousand, I don't have the right data, people employed in raspberries companies, it means businesses up to 10 employees. It's a total of 400,000 or maybe more employees. This should be taken care of by this high House of Legislative Authorities in the Republic of Croatia. We also cannot if we look at these legal proposals, miss thinking and ask ourselves a question, which is better for the local self-government unit, which is better for the Republic of Croatia. But that's what we need to let think about, so it means responsible people in those institutions. If it's better to rent, let them still have the rent of their own space. If it's better to sell the space, let them decide to sell the space for themselves. And through legislation, it is necessary to find one option that will allow one and the other to be used. I must also commend this proposal from the DC Club which says that this proposal provides opportunities and no one commits it, and we must also remind that through this legislative proposal it has finally been established and that there are crafts and small businesses that are practically traditional crafts or turns in extinction that should have greater assistance to the Republic of Croatia but also greater legal protection. Because we know ourselves, sometimes it's hard to find the carpenters or someone else here in the city environments, and it's just that kind of twists are shutting down. But we also need to think if we're talking about buying a business space, selling a business space, that maybe because of that constitutional provision that speaks of equality we can think about some other possibilities, which is through subsidising loans that these craftsmen will buy out. It means market prices. It can include the Ministry of Economy, the Ministry of Finance, and then, according to estimates, determine the criteria. But I also can't help but say one other fact. And that second fact is the fact that by the year 90, craftsmen were also investing in housing funds. That even workers in craftsmen were paying into housing funds and they were never in a position to get flats from the state. And that all those who were, to put it this way, were much easier to get apartments from the former authorities 90 years ago, and that these apartments were later purchased by the Parisian officials very favourably and were bought practically by them. And today, on this side, I can say that the present provision that speaks of the possibility of one means this easier way of coming to a business space, craftsman or entrepreneur in a rented business space, to be acceptable. But we need to find a certain limit between constitutional provisions and what we need as a Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-22-0.u20585	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative Krunoslav Markovinović please welcome
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-22-0.u20586	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. In fact, by observing this earlier law proposed, and these two laws, it is certain that we can all find weak spots. They're all prone to criticism, which is good. And I believe that in some other reading, I guess we'll find a law that fits which might be the least bad. When I ask the question of whom will most benefit this law or these laws most talk about small and medium-sized entrepreneurship. I don't know, 240, 250 thousand of which is just a small part of the business space. And of them should certainly take care of the most of those who are becoming extinct, and there they should do everything to keep them. Namely, all of us are curious about numerous places, numerous business spaces in the city of Zagreb that are empty. But I don't think this is about state bars. It's about the slow work of the Justice Department. Because many of them are not returned to the owners because they are waiting because this huge number is located, the courts are buried. And when those questions are solved, I think it'll be much easier to assign those joints. The state itself should certainly make sure that locals or business premises rent to associations, parties. So life goes normal and I think it's done and it can be done. But what's the problem about is that it's attractive locals, attractive and in the middle of town, where small craftsmen and poorer craftsmen have absolutely no chance of looking at the HNS proposal. Because by accepting the most favourable offer, the most favourable offer is so high that neither defenders nor the little poorer tenants have any chance at all. The DC proposal opens the door so that a direct, some kind of contract with current tenants can be treated a little differently and I think it's good as a possibility, but in any case it shouldn't be cafes, it shouldn't be those that are, therefore, representatives of foreign very wealthy firms. Let's take a walk with Ilica, and we'll see, left and right, we don't have any more locals that are renting any domestic tenants. So, if not for much longer, we should really take care of a few crafts that are important for citizens and for tourism, maybe give priority to some streets, such as, finally, Radicov or I don't know Tkalčić anymore, where the city of Zagreb is above all, and certainly has an interest in tourists who pass by these streets and see these traditional turns, to buy something further, and in all of Croatia it is certainly not like in Zagreb and I think that in smaller municipalities the state has very, very little. I also agree absolutely that in Dubrovnik and the old city core, the city should have the advantage of renting and buying such places, because the city is certainly the closest to that, it can best know who and what is the most, to whom to rent, which of which is the greatest benefit. What I'm afraid of is, with all the bickering that's been happening here, we're lowering the political rating, so it turns out that everything we're doing is in good interest, we're doing something else, but we're all going to have to make sure that this picture changes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-22-0.u20587	Thank you very much, colleague. My colleague Jelena Pavići Vukičević, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-22-0.u20588	Thank you very much. Dear Madam Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Here, today we have really heard a lot about the problems of craftsmen, small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, especially with regard to their use of business premises owned by both state and local self-government units. Personally, I would really like to support every law that would want to protect the rights of both craftsmen and small and medium-sized entrepreneurs. I am particularly aware of the problems these same craftsmen have in renting space owned by units of local self-government, as well as natural persons returned to the premises under the Property Compensation Act taken from them during the Yugoslav communist rule. After 50 years of exorcism, some craftsmen were able to carry out their traditional and family craftsmen no longer in the business space of social property, but finally again in their private ownership, in a business space that was mostly the grandfather of the same craftsmen. But other craftsmen have actually found themselves in a position that owners who have regained ownership of their property, impose high rents that craftsmen cannot pay, and for this reason I believe that we all have an obligation to work on resolving this issue and actually enable craftsmen to continue their work. This refers in particular to traditional crafts, i.e. the crafts in extinction, because it is a fact that without special care about the Croatian craftsman and the traditional professions, we could soon not boast about tourist events such as the SpanishCirfest in Varazdin or the Stubic Knight Games. But unfortunately, games don't make you live. For this reason, they cannot agree with the proposal of the esteemed representative Brletić, i.e. Piplovic, that the terms of sales and new lease should be prescribed by the Government by its regulation. The reason here is that this reduces the costs of carrying out the competitions in the local self-government unit. As my predecessors, I believe that actually the terms of the sale, but also the terms of the repurchase must be prescribed by law, which is ultimately constitutional provision. Second of all, this is about saving. I don't think it's about saving actually, but the possibility that craftsmen who can't pay the high amount of rent of their competition that deals exclusively with commercial activities can still exercise the right to rent. This can be much more skilled in the legislative proposal that we have also received in the procedure and legal proposal of the HNS and PGS Club. In fact, if we were to withdraw the parallel, we could say that also calling elections at all levels, that this is also one competition in which parties, political options compete with their programmes, offer conditions and actually wins the elections of the one who offered the best conditions. So calling and holding elections is one job that costs a lot of money, but it really doesn't occur to anyone to say it's not necessarily a democratic instrument. In fact, no one's ever thought of advocating, say, the abolition of that democratic institute. And I consider the opening of a tender for renting a business space the same as an absolutely necessary job, which the unit of local self-government, but not even the state should give up. This is the case in Article 3(3) of the DC, which actually refers to Article 6a, which states that the Government will also regulate the way in which the price of the business space is determined, the discounts recognised to the buyer, the payment method, and the content of the sales contract and the intention of the funds achieved by the sale of the business space. This provision is indeed arbitral, unequal and unfair, which enables the government to actually have a monopolistic influence on the purchase of business space. As we heard at the end, it's even a jury provision. Furthermore, I would say something about another problem, which is the problem of recognising investment in business space. In my view, the law must also standardise the highest percentage of investment in business space compared to its estimated value, otherwise it will actually achieve the opposite effect and fictitious investment in state spaces, business spaces not only to reach the level of estimated value of real estate, but in some cases, not only that users can buy them at a very low price, but that they can actually get them for free. So, I propose to the PGS Club's proposer to consider this problem in particular, if we get a chance to have this law in a second reading, to specifically consider this investment problem, to recognise investment in the business space. So I've already touched that law. I think that law is good, because it wants to give new rights to former tenants and that right primarily to the conclusion of a lease agreement. The democratic institute of public tendering is respected, it is complemented, the law is complemented in an acceptable and consistent way, and some units of local self-government are, in fact, already acting in their own decisions, so I think it is appropriate for others to give such a legislative incentive to try to solve economic, economic and other problems just like this. But I'd also say one more thing about one problem. That's the problem with auctioning the business space itself. In fact, an earlier tenant should, if he wants to stay in a business space owned by a state or a unit of local self-government, accept actually the conditions of the most favourable offer, that means the highest exemplified, highest offered price in a public tender. Unfortunately, abuse is very common. So let's say that if the bidder offers a price that is too high for the former tenant so this guy gives up the space and returns it to the owner, who actually guarantees that the same owner that the highest pricer will pay the rent at all, because in practice, that's exactly what's happening. The new tenant offers a price that he has no intention of paying, the owner, or unit of local self-government or the state sues him and is sought by court through this lease out of business space. We know it's a long-term process, and eventually it can be delayed for four to five years. The consequence is that the craftsman who had the right to the championship could not pay the price of that highest price. The new tenant had no intention of paying, and as long as the court proceedings lasted, the tenant used the space for free. It's mostly about attractive spaces. I therefore propose to the HNS and PGS promoter to limit this highest quoted price for renting a business space and that it cannot exceed five to ten times the lease so far. In fact, with this proposal, we also in some way make it impossible for an earlier tenant to actually consume this right which we now wish to give him in these legal frameworks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-22-0.u20589	Thank you very much, colleague. Next is Honorable Representative Marko Širac. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-22-0.u20590	Madam Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. The law on the sale of business space was passed in 1996 and since then, many conditions have changed and it is indeed time for us to bring the supplements and arrange some things that need to be arranged. Unfortunately, when discussing the lease of business space, we are all somehow ready to discuss only the attractive space and the places located in attractive, attractive locations in our municipalities, cities and, of course, the centre of the state, the City of Zagreb. However, business space under the provisions of the law since 96 are business buildings, business premises, garages and garages. We need to settle issues that are not only related to that part of the attractive space where a part of our craftsmen and small businessmen carry out their activities. What I am familiar with in this problem, the Republic of Croatia, or the Government or rather the Government of the previous one, has transferred a large part of the business space to large cities. Here I learned for the first time today that this was not done for Dubrovnik, obviously for some other reasons that were not motivated by the state’s encouraging and helping local self - government units, i.e. entrepreneurship in those areas. I personally think that apart from individual buildings and certain business premises owned by the Republic of Croatia, there should be nothing more to be left than what is called business space. It means neither buildings, nor business rooms, and especially garages and garages. Of course, if that doesn't apply to that part of the garage that's gravitating here to the government and the Parliament to solve business-related issues and the work of the Government and the Parliament. Another problem is this important, which is how business spaces were created owned by the state and why we couldn't do it until today, and I'm not 100% sure that even during this debate, or another reading, we're going to be able to solve things until the end. These areas owned by the state were created by the denationalisation of those areas which are not, which currently cannot have the owner or their successors have moved from the Republic of Croatia or have either died or already, naturally, one process over the past 45 years, i.e. now almost 60 years. Unfortunately, the process of denationalisation is not over right now, and I think we should take this seriously, and if we're embezzling the provisions on the sale of business space, it would have to do so in such a way that at any moment it is known when the business space actually comes into state ownership, if then the state should pass it on to the units of local self-government as it has now done, so it only gave them control. I don't know, Zagreb, Rijeka, etc. Great cities until these others were given nothing by the government. The problem is that, according to my assessment, we should legally oblige local self-government units to bring the general schedule and purpose of business space to cities and settlements. This is the most obvious example in Zagreb and these great cities of ours. Only interesting are these locations along Ilica, around Ilica, this central part. However, I believe that you are all witnesses that no one is interested in opening an elite sale of gold or jewelry or something in Spain, New Zagreb and so on in Dubrovnik in those suburban parts. So I suggest that in the second reading of the motion we choose today, it must install a provision to commit units of local self-government within a certain time limit, so I do not order them to do so, and what space they will define attractive or any locals, or business spaces, will make it attractive, but every unit will do it for itself, but within a certain time, because we will never solve this problem. As time goes by, the conditions change, and of course other views of municipal furniture, or urban furniture, that takes over after the elections and have other approaches, other views. A few words about the bill. The law proposed by Mr Frane Piploic suggests that the law regulate the lease of business space to an earlier tenant, without a public tender under a certain condition. As far as I understand the provisions, it's just a possibility, it's not mandatory. Secondly, it has been proposed that a decision on the sale of this business space can be made and that is also an option. In my view, there are serious dilemmas in Article 3 where it states that, exceptionally from the provisions of Article 6(1), the interest of the Republic of Croatia may, without a public invitation to tender, be placed on the lease of a business space to an earlier tenant or sold by a business space based on a procedure to be regulated by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. It is not clear whether the word is exceptional. Also, who makes the decision under what conditions, which is considered to be the interest of the Republic of Croatia, of course in the sale of business space and who determines that interest. I think the question of selling a business space, although this is a possibility, this is a truly created possibility, but if we go to the sale of a business space and I think that the state should sell everything except what it needs or pass on to cities, then those issues really have to be regulated by law. I will support and I believe that this Law should be supported but that the Proposer may consider what has been presented in this debate and what I have put forward. Just a few words about our colleagues' proposal from HNS-PGS. In my view, all this that has been proposed on the right of the lease agreement of the former tenant is already resolved by the provisions of Article 35 of the existing Law and these provisions are not clear to me until the end because I cannot read from them who actually has the championship whether he is a former tenant or a disabled Homeland War. So I think we should concentrate on one proposal, and this is Mr. Piplovic's proposal, and then, in the second reading, we should really do it right.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-22-0.u20591	Thank you very much, colleague. We have one replica, colleague Lucine.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-22-0.u20592	Thank you very much. It's not clear to me that on the one hand we're pushing for the central state to get rid of its properties and transfer them to local self-government units. On the other hand, we support a law that regulates what is actually going to happen with these business spaces, wouldn't it be logical for the state to keep its property in power and to rule it the way it wants to. We're all really into helping craftsmen, but on the one hand you see from certain discussions, I don't know, in the city there's something to be excluded, the old city cores should be excluded. In my view, it would be the simplest logic for the state to take away all the nice spaces where these little craftsmen are and simply divide them. We forget that this way of entering the sphere of the market is significantly disrupting the game. There are other mechanisms to help small craftsmen, especially those small craftsmen who are not profitable, help, via the Ministry of Economy, through the tourist community, through the Ministry and state bodies responsible for tourism, but please do not enter the rights of local self-government units to determine their own way of managing their own assets. I warn you that the significant income of local self-government units comes especially from the rent space. Because with this logic, someone's actually coming tomorrow to sell out all the state land.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-22-0.u20593	Thank you very much. Right to respond to the replica, Mr. Širac, please be my guest.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-22-0.u20594	I didn't argue at all that anything was being ordered by local self-government units. I have argued that the property available today is transferred by the Government of the Republic of Croatia or by the State of Croatia to management, and in my opinion puts it for sale to those who are interested, of course, with the appropriate criteria that cannot be equal everywhere. Another interest in certain crafts and crafts is better said for users of this business space in Dubrovnik and another interest is for users of the business space in Bjelovar. Such crafts and crafts in Bjelovar do not have what they have in Dubrovnik, and we have to give full confidence to the local self-government unit to make a plan of purpose at all and certain conditions under which business space will be given in each place. Here's what I had in mind.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-22-0.u20595	Thank you very much, counsel. The following came forward for the debate, representative Jozo Topic, please choose a colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-22-0.u20596	Dear Madam Vice President of the Parliament, imported colleagues and fellow MPs. We're the spring session of the Parliament, we can say, done with this particular matter. I see that this autumn session of the Parliament is also beginning with this matter, which I find extremely important and good that there is an interest in all parties in doing something and doing something to improve the status of craftsmanship in the Republic of Croatia. I will now say a few words about this bill from my colleague Brletić or DC, who was taken over by fellow MP Piploić, personally at least as I read this proposal for a law on the lease of business space he is defacto very similar to the proposal we discussed as I have already said in the spring session of the Assembly before the summer break from the HDZ Club. The representative of Bletić or DC proposal foresees the possibility of selling a business space owned by the Republic of Croatia by means of a regulation to regulate the conditions and procedure of selling space owned by the Republic of Croatia and, of course, set the price, which is almost impossible for me that a body, an institution or a person can set the price alone, I think that the price can only determine the market. This proposal does not only affect the ownership of units of local administrations and self-government and in that part it is significantly different from the proposal of the HSS Club. The second moment in this proposal by Mr Brletić or his colleagues is to enable the tenants or the lease of a business space to conclude or extend the lease contract without a public tender. I think this provision is difficult for me to accept. I agree and share the opinion of a large number of colleagues who discussed this matter. I think my colleague Plesko is very good quality, and I would say he spoke very precisely about this matter. A small economy and entrepreneurship, we are all aware of it, and craftsmanship is part of it and it is very important for the development of the Republic of Croatia and that this is a very important segment of the economy of the Republic of Croatia. Because it's mentioned here, and we know that from before in crafts, or in small entrepreneurship, about 230 and up to 350 thousand employees are employed. And logically and it is necessary for the Government and, of course, the Parliament to pay particular attention to this part of the economy, which is exceptional for the Republic of Croatia, to pay attention not only to this law, through this Law, I do not think that this law can solve this problem in the best possible way. It's just a question and that's how we differ and how we can contribute more to the development of entrepreneurship and craftsmanship. On the other hand, that a competition works and it is all transparent and legal and what is very important to space, that one value owned by cities, or the state, that one space that significantly determines the appearance of the city and the experience of the city is these business spaces, that it is used in a quality and rational way. I think that's one of the important questions. And does this suggest that I could expand whether any of these proposals we had in the debate were secured and enabled? I didn't think that was the case. And again, I would go back to an important topic, which is with this bill and who was with all these bill proposals not to ensure that equality, equality of all entities, all craftsmen on the market are not guaranteed. Because now that we're talking about craftsmen that this law should, which should please, which should give us the possibility of renting under special conditions and buyouts, we need to do a full analysis in craftsmanship. We need to see which entities, when they came to those premises, what price they paid in those areas because we make sure that there was another, very significant number of craftsmen who never had the opportunity precisely because of some of the achievements that craftsmen had ever had in place to rent a business space, that they paid even before and now, paid a far higher price, paid a market price than certain fellow craftsmen had the possibility that they used rented space from units of local self-government or state. So this bill defacto corresponds to a single narrow number, a number of subjects, a small number of craftsmen. And here it's completely forgotten, abandoned, and we keep saying that we need to support the development of crafts and entrepreneurship, about new entities, about new craftsmen, about new entrepreneurs, about new young people who need to be involved in crafts and should be included in entrepreneurship. They are not spoken of here at all, and with such proposals as we discussed before the summer break and now we are again that part of the people, we are bringing that part of the young people into an unfavourable and unequal position relative to a particular circle of people. Of course, I agree with all those who talked about this matter having a twist, that there are certain interests to protect, that should have a special status, because, here some, they can't handle the competition, they're important to the atmosphere, they're important to the image of a city, and one environment and they need to enjoy certain benefits, it's just a question of how and how they should be protected. And in order for us to even be able to do this matter in quality, I would say debate, I think we need to do one analysis of the entire state of craftsmanship. To make one analysis of how many interests there should be to protect and who in individual units and cities, local self-government units and cities, and then should make one proposal for a new law that would respect all these facts and that one quality bill that would be designed to develop craftsmanship, develop entrepreneurship, but again stressing that these three main objectives are being taken into account, which is that advanced craftsmanship and that in some way we can have recognizable cities, thanks to certain specific, or traditional crafts. And on the other hand, that this space is being used in a quality way, that it is being used economically, because we have nevertheless opted for the market economy and I think it is very important that this potential can be used in the best way. But, gentlemen, dear, I wouldn't accept a single proposal that would go past a public tender because a colleague here mentioned that no business space was even assigned without certain, let's say, cloudy shops and no arrangements under the table. I agree with that, but gentlemen dear, none will be sold without that method, especially these extremely attractive spaces, in extremely valuable locations. Therefore, one public and transparency in solving this problem is more than necessary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-22-0.u20597	Thank you. We have 3 replicas, 1 correction of an incorrect quote. First the replica of Mr. Zeljko Pecek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-22-0.u20598	Thank you very much. So I would like to remind again that the former Government has passed the Small Economy Act and has adopted a small economy development programme where the most powerful measure is to activate the state of property, i.e. the business space that should be put into the function of crafts and small entrepreneurship. However, the programme, as well as any other measures for the past 10 months, has not been implemented by the new governments, though for unknown reasons. We're here declaring ourselves to be in this sector. However, if the government made a decision to speed up the privatisation of portfolios at the Privatisation Fund, it was also necessary to make a decision on the accelerated privatisation of the business space. I also find it unacceptable to propose here that the state should give a unit of local self-government to a business space that will not be in office of its jurisdiction. This area should go directly through the competition to this sector, if we want to strengthen its intensity of growth that has occurred in the last 4 to 5 years. It is the only sector that can resolve employment, which has been stepping strongly towards exports lately, and therefore we must support it. And I'd like to correct the incorrect allegations that have already slipped through here several times when we say that 250 thousand people work in the small economy. No, only in the craft sector is 250 thousand people because we have over 100 thousand craftsmen registered and over 150 thousand people working in crafts. And in the small economy sector, let me point out how important he is to over 600 thousand people. So this Law and everyone else who wants to change something in this area should be more active if we want to respect this 600 thousand figure, not 250 thousand people who work in a small economy.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-22-0.u20599	Thank you very much. The replica was reported by Mrs. Representative Marija Lugaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-22-0.u20600	Dear Mr. Vice President, I'd like to replicate my colleagues in the part where he advocates young craftsmen and young entrepreneurs and entrepreneurs. In the same way as counterpart Pecek, and we see this from the report on the implementation of the State budget for the first six months, the programmes introduced during the past term are the primary lending programmes of beginners and young entrepreneurs and entrepreneurs in the implementation of the budget 0 kuna, and simply these programmes are not implemented. Therefore, this, in this declarative statement, is quite touching in this sense unless a colleague for the same reasons he supports this Law will not support the implementation of the Budget, because it will prove, in fact, that for these and young entrepreneurs who here specifically potentiate what I am commending, advocates and indeed not just declaratively.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-22-0.u20601	Thank you very much. Answer to the replica Mr. Jozo Topic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-22-0.u20602	Well, I'd just like to say for a little while. We are discussing here a concrete bill. And I've been discussing this particular bill. I didn't talk about some whole economic policy, nor did I try to politicize and polarize it in such a way as my colleagues.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-22-0.u20603	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-22-0.u20604	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. counterpart Topic rightly said that traditional crafts should be protected. This has already been discussed by other fellow MPs. But it also seems to me that it would be important and even more important to protect the positions where these same traditional turns are being carried out. I think it should be true, and that's what it was about, I think my colleague Shirac made it very clear that he should commit the units of local self-government to make their plans. But primarily local units, local self-government units need to bring the purpose of business space. In this way, they will protect craftsmen, they can protect them, and thus craftsmen can enter the competition. Because if one business space is intended exclusively for one craft, then we really leave the possibility that in one market competition, those craftsmen who deal with this business can compete in one quality way because we know that then there will be no one who will offer, I don't know, some profit quickly, and it will throw out this traditional craft that has been there for centuries and in this way it can be better protected by myself, and the craftsman himself and the craftsman himself. Because what happens if you don't? In the opposite business space, a tender for a business space is launched without purpose and, of course, the previous tenant cannot compete with a price because he performs, for example, one of the crafts that does not have such a accumulation. It simply cannot compete with some large chain of trade or food and of course it automatically falls out of quality... [[/The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-22-0.u20605	Answer to the replica Mr. Jozo Topic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-22-0.u20606	Oh, I support the presentation of fellow Matusic with me personally thinking, it's my position, we can't forbid what he can do, we, we can't direct what he needs to be. We need to forbid, or what we disagree with, what is unacceptable to us. I think it's very important for certain cities to have quality facilities. Because the economy is very dynamic, look out today are, today is something actual. There's something completely different going on tomorrow. But we, units of local self-government, can in some ways ban cities, which is not, which is not acceptable for cities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-22-0.u20607	Thank you very much. Mr. Vlado Jelkovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-22-0.u20608	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the House of Representatives! The problems of craftsmanship are much broader than those defined in these amendments and the addition of laws. It contains a series of other segments such as tax policy, labour problems, and the problem of business space is one of the most important problems in this segment of craftsmanship. Namely, without properly solved business space, of course, there is no suitable trade. And unfortunately, in all our cities, this business space is almost regularly missing. There are two draft laws ahead of us that, I would say immediately, I would be more inclined to Mr Brletić's or Piplovic's proposal, but not for the reason that the proposer listed here, and that is to reduce the cost of carrying out the tender because of the adoption of this bill. I think that is the least reason or one of the last reasons why this proposal should be accepted rather than a long-term quality solution to one of the legal certainty that craftsmen expect. And precisely because of this long-term legal uncertainty, it seems to me that a good part of our business space has been poorly maintained, of course, because, rightly, many craftsmen are wondering, so why should I invest more considerable and greater resources in something that I'm not sure I'm going to be able to use tomorrow, or I will be able to use. And therefore, from city to city are different circumstances, different situations and, of course, it is very difficult to count all the problems that are important for a city in Zagreb with 1500 business spaces. Also parallel to the same law and to a small municipality that has only two or three spaces. I think it's important to define the three things mentioned in these bill proposals. First, who can be helped or favored? I don't really see any need to benefit everyone because it is still an interesting circle of people and compared to that of Mr. Topic and Matusic, there is no problem that cities and municipalities define the future purpose of a particular business space. And it can be determined, and there will be some traditional craftsmanship and only such stakeholders can in the future procedure, whether the competition or the other occurs, report to those premises. So I think it should be said that individual uses or individual types of crafts, production crafts, traditional crafts can use certain benefits because I think that society, every unit of local self-government, is interesting that it has these activities in a particular area, a particular neighborhood, at a particular location. This part of course must be further defined by urban, municipal or county decisions on the assignment of business space because, of course, the units of local self-government are obliged to take care of the arrangement of space on their part of the territory. As for renting or renting a business space to non-profit organisations, political parties, citizens' associations, I think there's a big colour in the field. Namely, the non-critical, non-selective hundreds and hundreds of such associations exist and, of course, it is possible and they are looking for this business space, therefore they need to be actively defined who to define more closely, who might have the right and under what conditions in that business space. And sales of business space as the last thing I'm saying is, of course, whoever owns who runs the business space and so far he's had the right to sell business space because of course to the owners. And cities and municipalities are the owners. However, I do believe that it would be good to mention in the law and such an opportunity, by saying, to give that possibility, not to mention the obligation, but also to define the right and the right that there is such a possibility because I do not think, for any reason, that the property of the state should be defined differently from the property of the county, the cities and the municipalities. And I conclude, therefore, that even if these two proposals were to be decided on, it would be more prone to the proposal that came from DC, of course with certain additions that were heard and in discussions at today's session. And perhaps even the happiest would be a solution if the government respected both these two proposals and other proposals, with one perhaps new law that would fully regulate the problem of renting business space and other other segments standing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-22-0.u20609	Thank you very much. We have one replica. Mr. Zeljko Pecek, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-22-0.u20610	Thank you very much. It's just this part I'd like to replicate about the possibility of right or right or obligation. I agree that the municipality or city has the right to do so if it wants to sell a business space or eventually rent it under more favourable conditions. But the state has an obligation to privatise a business space that is often out of service. And who has stood unused for years at the same time at the best locations and serves to glue posters to the windows. I'd make a big difference between the municipalities, cities and the state. According to the model, I reiterated the accelerated privatisations, the portfolio in the Croatian Privatisation Fund needs to be privatised according to the Small Economy Development Programme and hastened to privatise business space owned by a state that is out of function. Finally, this is what the program says, and several hundred million kunas for crafts and small and medium enterprises are planned annually to activate. Unfortunately, we didn't activate any kunas today. And my proposal is to make a commitment to the state in the conclusion of this law to what it is already mandatory but not to implement.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-22-0.u20611	Thank you. The answer to the line, Mr. Vlado Jelkovac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-22-0.u20612	The answer to Mr. Pecek and regarding the different situation of cities and municipalities on one side and the other state, is that all this he said about the state certainly exists in cities and municipalities.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-22-0.u20613	Thank you very much. And on behalf of the club IDS with five minutes of final debate Mr. Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-22-0.u20614	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. President, Your Honor, Mr. MPs. Here's to resuscitating something I was saying in the morning. And that's when I said, and now I'm gonna do it again. That what's for a peasant country is a craftsman's business space. As Croatia's peasants will not be saved unless we give him or better say the conditions for working, and unless we give him land. That way we won't save a craftsman unless he comes into possession of business space. Our peasants now have 2.8 acres of farmland. Without coming into possession of larger parcels, these will not be able to cope with the conucretion of either large combinations, peaks as they are already called, or with European competition. The same thing is with craftsmen in the Republic of Croatia. Without business space, craftsmanship is doomed to extinction. It's just that I want to say equally that craftsmen are the only category of Croatian citizens who, by the time of our unfortunate or happy transitions, got nothing. They were ideologically insolent to the communist regime, unfortunately today they exist in the citizens of the second order. Our 400,000 workers were able to buy apartments, the craftsmen couldn't acquire them because of their situation. Socialist directors don't know, former authorities have come to buy large businesses, peasants have won or will get land only craftsmen can't reach business space. And without it, we all know that they can't develop in one word can't survive. They finally don't ask anyone to give them anything, they ask for the opportunity to buy out that business space. I'll say what I said this morning, there's almost no business space in some cities that don't share, so to speak under the table. I would also like to say that there are no more vulnerable categories of citizens of the Republic of Croatia at this time than our craftsmen. There's no category of people who work anymore, no category of people who sacrifice more, they're the only ones who match in that business world all over their property. And what they have so expressed, inherited, or created during life. I also claim that in 50% of craftsmen's families, there may be employees in a better position than craftsmen, because at least they can count on safe wages, and these other issues they can even share. There's also no city that's built business spaces. Business premises owned by them were found as a consequence of nationalisation, confiscation here in Zagreb in Istria options. If it is the state that will sell the business space, then the same obligation must be read for local self-government, and I agree here with Mr. Jelkovec. Without it, our craftsmen will be second-class citizens again. They will again be discriminated against in relation to each other, those who are in the premises of our cities, municipalities, compared to those who are in the business premises of the state. In this country where we have sold so to say everything, the banks to the sites of the hardware store don't know the combined, steel, only Ina in this similar, the only problem seems to be at this moment these craftsmen who simply don't want to give in and create working conditions. And he said well just before Mr. Pecek that in craftsmanship in the Republic of Croatia it is the category I repeat for the third time that nothing from the state has been won, doing 250 thousand people. And in a small economy, nearly 600 thousand people. One word of a million and 400 thousand people who are on the payroll of that public, private or not, I don't know what kind of sector everyone else works in small entrepreneurship. Simply if we want to value that element too, we will think carefully about how to put everything towards the craftsmen in the future. And for the end. If by any chance the leading people of this country were in a situation of craftsmen, then they would have resolved the problem very quickly, as the 91st odina resolved the problem of apartments, or privatisation. So I'm on the verge of saying it more in my personal name than perhaps on behalf of the club to honor the amadmies of this proposal DCA.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-22-0.u20615	Thank you. Whether Representative Frano Piploic would like to finally explain the proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-22-0.u20616	Mr. President, dear colleagues and fellow MPs. Here, for the very end. What to say after such a quality and extensive debate. I believe that both proposals, and the proposal of the Democratic Centre and the second proposal of the PGS, have provoked a very high-quality debate and a lot of quality proposals have been made in what has been said. What on behalf of the promoter means on behalf of the Democratic Centre I can say here is that I thank all those who have supported the proposal of the Democratic Centre, particularly HDZ, HSP, HSS, IDS, thank you and colleagues from the SDP and the HNS who have also referred us to our comments and criticism on the building-up, better and better quality of the bill itself. All the proposals that are going towards improving this law we will install, I believe you will get it in another reading, so we will probably come up with one solution that will benefit all of our craftsmen that we stand for here. On behalf of the Democratic Center, again here I say, there was no figment in the pocket, we don't want to fool anyone. We want one quality solution, and if someone has a better quality solution, I'm willing to support it. And finally, I would like to ask my colleague Ingrid Antičević, since she has expressed her doubts about this proposal and mentioned one sentence, that it will be possible to pay with the nature of the rent, if it is possible to explain it so that we can install it in the final draft of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-22-0.u20617	Dear Representative Ferencak, on behalf of the second legislator of the law, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-22-0.u20618	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and fellow MPs. It is obvious that these proposals have spurred the great interest of all MPs. It means it's a good thing they came here on the agenda. We've been discussing them for almost three and a half hours. Unlike my colleagues, however, I do not agree that the debate was constructive, or at least I did not write down any constructive proposal or criticism of the law proposed by the HNS and PGS Club, except for the proposal of counterpart Pavicic, whom we will absolutely consider. I think they're very useful. As for colleagues from the post, Mr. Jure Bitunjac says the government's opinion is different on our law and on DC law, because these laws are different. No colleagues here, so unfortunately they won't hear me. Maybe they'll ask what I said. It is clear that our proposals are different, because we prefer a competition, we ask that they have the right to a championship under the terms of a public tender, and colleagues from DC say they would assign it directly. But the government has shown itself negatively on our proposal because they said that the lease of business space in the proposed text, says they are contained in the existing law in transitional and final provisions, which is why this proposal is not supported. It's just not true. I've given you two examples of why it's not true, because then in the final terms, it should be reflected in the law proposed by the DC. They're the same. They're the same terms. Thus, the government does not understand or purposely do wrong. I also read to you the opinion of the State Attorney's Office that these transitional and final provisions apply only to those premises until 15.11.1988 and that they had to be re-expanded into the lease of business premises. Which would have brought it, I've spoken before. So four and a half thousand in Zagreb are just such craftsmen, what confusion and confusion would lead to among these people, means to get them out of their space. Therefore, this law is necessary to change at least in this part that people have the right to hire first. It was further noted by counterparts Shirtz and Mr Bitunjec that they had to classify the premises according to their activities. I don't know how you do it, Mr. Matusic in Dubrovnik or Mr. Bitunjac in Sinj, but in Zagreb, here you now have on the city of Zagreb website, whenever there is a public tender, I am talking about this coalition government in Zagreb, it always writes the purpose of space. You have www.zagreb.hr, look, it always writes the purpose. Therefore, in this way we protect old crafts and crafts, and we have done so in agreement with the Zagreb Chamber of crafts and I think it is a good observation and we must continue to do so. The reference was another one that the right of the first lease was not precisely defined. So, obviously, or colleagues haven't read our bill, so speak from their heads, I'll read you what it says. "If it participates and fulfils the conditions of the tender under the conditions of acceptance of the conditions laid down in the most favourable offer, the right of the championship to enter into a contract on the lease of a business space shall be limited to 1, 1. It can't be clearer. And then 2. "has the right to rent a Croatian disabled Homeland War, a developed Croatian defender and members of the dead families, imprisoned and missing Croatian defenders." So we put that provision out of the old law. Therefore, first former tenants if they meet all conditions, then Croatian defenders. Clearly, therefore, I don't think that comment is appropriate. We did not have any other comments, even though colleagues Markovanovic, Topic and Bošnjakovic supported our efforts to support the competition for these premises, I thank them for that. They obviously like our bill, but because of the party discipline, I can't vote for it, which I don't think is right, but good. As for Mr Letica's statement, he held this one winding-up show, the campaign, using the Assembly's pay phone for these things, and says he will not support this law because I am in the city of Zagreb in the management of property. And he doesn't care at all, it's not a word, he didn't say whether the law is good, whether it's not good or what concrete proposals or remarks he has on that law. Well, that's why I'm in charge of property management in the city of Zagreb. Two and a half years ago, I still started with my associates in the city and my colleagues to amend and supplement this law. Here, only after two and a half years he came to the meeting. Well, that also speaks of how slow our administration is. So I think it's just an advantage for someone to deal with it so that they can solve these problems this way. And I'll look back on his exposure. Completely incorrectly and unnecessarily here, he said that the HNS granted itself space in the Street of the Prince Mislava which is true, while forgetting to say that this coalition government, therefore not the Srecko Ferenčak who assigns spaces in the city of Zagreb, but the City Headship which has 15 members, has assigned spaces to all parties, so to all parties who participate in the work of the City Assembly and in the work of this Parliament. There's all of you and you know we've given you, each and every one of you space. So we gave the colleagues of HSP, that's not what Mr Letica said, bigger space than that of the HNS, and the HNS was assigned that space because the space in which we are now in the process of returning from both Tomic and Ilica we have to move out. So this is an explanation of why it is, therefore, a very incorrect and non-legislative statement. ... What? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Perhaps by your knowledge. Look at all the polls, and you'll see what kind of party rating is in the Republic of Croatia, and I don't think it's time and place to discuss it here right now. Therefore, I ask you to give the tenants, in particular, craftsmen who for many years or for their entire working life, through their independent activities, their existence or the existence of other families, certain legal certainty in the planning of the business, I propose that we adopt these proposals that we have heard, that this bill is supported, more because the initiative has also been supported by the Chamber of craftsmen of Croatia and the Chamber of craftsmen of the city, the City of Zagreb, let us overcome the consequent interests and support the law that comes in favour of Croatian craftsmen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-22-0.u20619	Another correction to an incorrect quote. Honored representative of counterpart Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-22-0.u20620	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr Ferenčak said the city was assigned to the right space for the Croatian party. The truth has been assigned, but that space is in dispute because the owner is asking that space to return to him and we are not going to enter a situation where property-legal relations are unresolved. And my colleague Letica used to say this primarily for the point of view that he received from the City of Zagreb, because we know what the location is and then it is said in the response of the City of Zagreb that this is an unattractive space which surprised him and normal and all of us, so one huge space. We know that "Croatian Rada" worked there, which is the area of the City of Zagreb. Therefore, these are incorrect things. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-22-0.u20621	Thank you very much. I'm concluding a debate on these two bill proposals. What fellow? ... What about my colleague Ferenchak? ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] You can't correct an incorrect quote. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] You can come in as a proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-22-0.u20622	Here, I'm reporting as a proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-22-0.u20623	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-22-0.u20624	Mr. Kovacevic, for two years now, you have been in the space assigned to you by the City of Zagreb to Petrinjska Street, HSP. What do you mean, it's not? For God's sake, you've been assigned a space that's also in the process... like ours and just these days with Mr. Rozic we're talking about finding you another space. You've been working in that space for a year and a half. Well, I don't understand.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-22-0.u20625	What is the city's headship, to whom and how it assigns spaces, another thing. I'm concluding a debate on these two bill proposals. . May I have your attention, ladies and gentlemen? Now let's go to the polls. First we will vote on Amendment Laws and Supplements to the Law on the Hire of Business Space, First Reading, Proposed Law No 92. And before that, I'm asking that we determine the quorum in the assembly. So let's get involved with this I.D. key. I'm asking representatives and attention counsels. Would you please have every MP and MP after the I.D. key applied for the system, did the bulb on the voting tag turn on? Is there anyone who isn't? Okay. Then let's see what the quorum is. 81 MPs are therefore present in the hall, 91 MPs therefore have a valid quorum. So we're going to the first draft law on amendments and additions to the law on the lease of business space. Proposed Law No 92. Please get the MPs involved. We get involved every time. [[/Intruder: Every time?]] Therefore, in accordance with the proposals of the working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Hire of Business Space proposed by MP Frano Piploić is hereby adopted. 2. All objections, proposals and opinions will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare the final draft law. Please vote for, against or withheld. Thank you. I'm asking for a result. I find that this conclusion has been accepted by 85 votes for and 10 against.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-22-0.u20732	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. This bill first needs to be said, there is therefore, a substantive suggestion is that young people over 16 are entitled to vote in local elections and, of course, after that, the reasoning of the law. The interpretation of the law, of course, is in the bill of law, but I'm going to say something else on behalf of the Proposer. The promoters are therefore members of the club LIBRE, Mr. William Herman and Mr. Zeljko Pavlic and my little one. Thus, lowering the age limit for obtaining voting rights in general, thus also in general parliamentary, presidential and local elections is a general trend in the world, and the age limit is constantly decreasing, but for various reasons, especially traditional reasons. Many countries still today have very uncoordinated age limits for the exercise of individual voting rights, active or passive voting rights. So in some countries, the right to vote, the passive right to vote, is acquired by 21 years of age, and in some other countries there are, in that sense, extreme solutions to France and Romania, even from 23 years of age. That year is moving somewhere depending on what kind of choice it is, somewhere where there are elections for the Senate that year, that age limit is even greater, so it goes beyond 23 years of life. But this proposal, therefore, is not about reducing the years for voting rights in the general elections, so parliamentary elections and presidential elections, but only in local elections, and this is about the Council of Europe and its bodies for a number of years, and in particular the Congress of the Local and Regional Authorities of the Council of Europe, which adopted a recommendation in 1997 calling on all Member States to vote at all levels to 18 years. Therefore, all active and passive voting rights in all types of elections to reduce the whole of Europe, i.e. the members of the Council of Europe to 18 years, and reporters, promoters and resolutions, therefore rapporteurs of local and regional authorities suggest that the right to vote in local and regional elections be reduced to 16 years, and voting rights, active voting rights in national and European elections to 17 years. In 97, therefore, rapporteurs of the Council of Europe Parliamentary Assembly, or the Congress of Local and Regional Authorities, propose a reduction of voting rights in local elections to 16 years and in national and euro elections to 17 years. This is not also a recommendation from the Council of Europe but is just the opinion of those people who have dealt more with the issue, so the rapporteurs of the local and regional authorities of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. Today, there is no country in the world, or Europe, that information is more familiar to me because I followed the documents of the Council of Europe, which fully adopted the proposal, so that young people at the age of 16 have the right to vote in local elections, but in the year 96 the right to vote in local elections of young people at the age of 17 introduced some German federal states, Donja Saska, and then in preparation... from the state of Saxony. [[You don't understand.]] Meanwhile, eight years have passed since then, this right has been introduced in these countries and several other federal states of the Federal Republic of Germany, so young people have the right to vote on some from 16, some from 17 to 17, elections for the parliaments of these federal states and, of course, in elections for representative bodies of units of local, or regional self-government. This is the situation in the world today, so these solutions already exist, but there is not a single country that is entirely, introduced that right of vote either at 16, or at 17. What are the reasons for actually going in this direction in the modern world? One reason is, indeed, that young people are actually losing interest in monitoring politics and participating in social life. We know that, unfortunately, this is a general tendency to lose interest in politics, so all populations of citizens, but this is particularly about young people. In particular, young people lose interest in monitoring politics, in participating in political life, and if young people respond, especially young voters who vote for the first time, their response to our parliamentary and local elections is less than their share in the total population. So, unfortunately, young people are also part of this general trend, losing interest in politics, and, of course, politics is an important segment of the common social interest of young people and, of course, under such circumstances, young people are marginalised and, of course, they become easier victims of all those negative phenomena such as crime and become possible goals of easy manipulation beyond, of course, the control and desire of society, or the legal political structures of any country. Another reason why this bill is and why this trend in the world or Europe is so interesting is the change of traditional relations in the family. In the past decades and centuries, the family has been the foundation of society’s life and, of course, young people have kept their traditional relationships with society and their interests through the family. Unfortunately, this is no longer the case, of course, to deal with this issue of losing that traditional family position or finding a new family position. But today this is the case, the family is simply no longer the segment of society that has strong cohesion power and then influences young people, of course there are more such families, but it is generally said that the family is losing that traditional role in the education and social inclusion of young people. Of course, that should also be taken into account. The additional reason why I propose this law is the ageing population. More and more older people, as people live more and more, older people make up an increasingly large part of the electoral body. This means that the total population of the electoral bodies is actually on average moving up and, of course, not good. Young people are the ones who particularly follow the changes that are happening in the world, young people are the ones who participate in these changes, which create them, it would be logical that in the modern world to achieve such a balance of the age of the total polling population, since this population is moving up to gradually in this way that we are proposing to move and down and that is, of course, the additional reason why we think this is a good proposal, that is, to talk about and to think about how it can be found in our positive legislation. Of course, this proposal also requires some effects of the state or state bodies, young people are very young to really participate in this process in political need and education, and of course the Croatian entire education system has a very large task of preparing young people to participate in such an important segment of social life as participation in local and parliamentary elections. In our opinion, that should be just the first step. After giving a vote to young people in local elections, we expect that Croatia will have such European elections very soon, and then giving full voting rights to young people at the age of 16 and in one and the other and in third elections, which I am sure will be our perspective, of course, is the question of how long it will take for us to spend this perspective and bring them back to life. Otherwise, in the modern world, young people try to engage in social life in a variety of ways, so young people in many countries are involved in the work of schools, many councils of young people are formed, who are in an appropriate way involved in the management or monitoring of the lives of the institutions in which they are located, and so are formed various, local representative bodies of young people, etc. Parliaments of young people who are then approaching political life, simulated the work of a representative body, and that is one of the useful ways for young people to get involved in political life and what we are proposing is just a step further in this direction. Last year, I think that, or this year, a council of young people was formed in the city of Zagreb, which is the parliament of young people who kind of simulated those processes that take place in the city hall of Zagreb, in the capital of the City of Zagreb, and of course such councils of young people would do well to organise at the level of all units of local self-government, as the first step in joining young people, bringing young people closer to the real very important relevant processes that take place in representative bodies. So these are reasons why we believe that this bill should be considered and, of course, adopted in perspective. Otherwise, the Government of the Republic of Croatia does not support this proposal. The Government of the Republic of Croatia has explained that this Law does not comply with the Constitution of Article 45. The Constitution. I am sorry that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has not given a broader explanation, and I call on colleagues who will participate in not falling into the same trap. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia says that Croatian citizens have a general and equal electoral right, which is acquired at the age of 18, that is true and there is no dispute about it. However, there is an interpretation of this and that constitutional provision, which means that a special right, in part, could be given to young people who are not 18 years old, is one of the interpretations of the Law. I suggest we don't wear ourselves out here in what the Constitutional Court thinks. The Constitutional Court has been paid to do this job, of course the MPs have the right to say it but I would be sorry if it were the only content of the debate as it is in the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The opinion of the Constitutional Court on this issue can be asked, and ultimately if this is considered to be a good initiative, that this is a good idea can be approached and changed to the Constitution, therefore I suggest that we do not do the work of the Constitutional Court, but that in our discussions that will follow in a great number of concerns about the scale of this proposal, I call on you in this sense colleagues and colleagues to approach this approach in this way in considering this proposal, I do not expect that the proposal will be adopted in the first attempt but I repeat it is certainly one of the trends of modern European policy and the way that young people can draw closer to social life against the marginalisation and loss of interest that young people then become the victim of all negative tendencies in modern society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-22-0.u20733	Thank you very much. The committee's rapporteurs. The Committee on Law, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the Political System, the President of the Committee, the Honored Representative Drazen Bosnjakovic, please welcome.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-22-0.u20734	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. The Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System discussed at the 16th session of July 2004 the draft law amending the law on the selection of members of the representative bodies of the local and regional self-government, which was submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Club of Representatives of the LIBRE. In its discussion, the Committee found that the proposal for a law disagrees with the provision of Article 45. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, which stipulates that Croatian citizens have general and equal voting rights that they acquire from the age of 18 in accordance with special law. In this regard, the Committee stressed that the proposed solutions could not be accepted without a change to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. The Committee also believes that the proposal to give people of 16 years of age the active right to vote in the elections for local and regional self-government, with passive voting rights still being acquired from 18 years of age not in line with the fundamental constitutional principles. The proposer's intention to enable a younger population to be included in all aspects of social and political life, as recommended by the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, could be achieved if possible by setting up advisory bodies for youth issues in local and regional units of local self-government. In addition, the Committee stresses that the implementation of this Act would require additional resources in the state budget contrary to the applicant's claim made by the draft law. The Committee unanimously proposed not to support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-22-0.u20735	Thank you very much. The Committee on Local and Regional Self-Government? No, I don't. Since it's 13 and 21, I'm setting a break by 3:00. And you're Mr. Caine first in line after that break. On the way, I'd like to ask MPs and MPs who have the I.D. keys to meet me at 2:00 and try to test our voting system one more time. ... Who can come! [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we will proceed with the session. It is the club of IDS MPs, the esteemed representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-22-0.u20737	... However, no matter how good this argument is, we have an extremely bad law ahead of us. [[Specially enabled.]] The explanation is very good, because it clearly indicates that such a recommendation by the Council of Europe, which Mr Rados spoke of, has not been accepted in the European Union so far, and the law is on the other hand bad because neither young nor want it, means those to which it should apply. I don't underestimate anyone, at least I underestimate young people, but they themselves say that when they're 16 they're not too interested in what's going on either under quotes locally or at national level. Now, if that's good or bad, we can discuss it. I know it's not good to use a cell phone in a conference room. I know it's no good to instrumentalise anyone, but children at the age of 16 don't need to be guaranteed the right to vote. It's better for us to provide them with other benefits, I don't know the zero rate either on shoes, whether on computers, good schools, free schooling, halls, and most of all what it takes for young people to get a job when they finish education. Recently, I was in a Buzet high school together with Mr. Hreja, when students of the fourth grade of high school decidatedly, don't do this, it's not what we need at this point in time to allow us to vote from 16 years of age. In this Buzet they didn't even say that they needed a job either, because in Buzet with 2% unemployment it's not a problem number one, but I would also ask Mr. Representatives, above all, that we don't play with those under quotes, imaginary rights that ultimately turn out I dare even say to the negation of common sense. There is no European state in which someone is allowed to vote at the age of 16. In the European Union, mostly passive voting law means being elected is acquired at the age of 21. That's the case in Italy, for example. In Croatia clearly at 18 years of age. I also want to believe that no one in this House is going to be able to choose at the age of 18. In France, being chosen can be achieved only at 23 years of age, in Croatia I repeat at 18 years of age, which is clear to all, and here in this legislative proposal a solution is offered to be chosen at 16 years of age. This is in some way in my court, I allow myself to be wrong, to return some of the principles of the socialist alliance of the working people, self-government had clear solutions, but beyond self-government, the idea of choosing at the age of 16 I think it was utopia. So there's no other way but to say it one more time, let's not do it. To assume that all this needs to be done in the end and to change the Constitution itself. The constitution is decided, he says the active passive law is acquired at the age of 18 and I want to believe that in the end we will not engage in one of these under quotes "constitutional adventure". You can't do that. Finally, let's just start an initiative to change the Constitution and then we'll see what happens at the end. We may also choose the President of the State in Parliament, not more among citizens or from citizens. What's certainly important about IDS, to make something else possible. The immediate selection of MPs, first of all MPs, mayors, mayors, or mayors, seems not to be a dominant thought in this House, and I am also aware of the dangers that this would bring, but primarily bearing in mind the benefits that the IDS would benefit from all of this, so that we are clear. For the end of the IDS is not for any adventure, we are not for adventure of any kind and neither is this one to allow a vote at 16 years of age. IDS is not for any exhibitionism, and I don't see anyone being courted in this way. So we offer a choice to young people of 16 years, we show that we're an avant-garde under quotes, and then we count on us to get 18-year-old support, and on the other hand, when they're 18 years old, we don't even give a driver's license to finish a little beer. But what do you say? You don't need to underestimate young people, they know clearly what's reasonable for them, and that's what I'm saying, they don't stand behind such a proposal, and what they expect when they're already Parliament's LIBRE initiatives, it's because they cancel military service clearly with military professionalization. For them it is important, it is important for their parents, it is important for the Republic of Croatia, and no exhibitionism is necessary through this form of legal proposals to this country. I think that with such a proposal as Libra referred to in the parliamentary procedure, young people will continue to lose interest in politics, i.e. that public expression and, at the very least, for this legislative proposal, we can say that at this time, it is premature.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-22-0.u20738	Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect quote, Mrs. Lugaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-22-0.u20739	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, only without the intention of entering the discussion, one quote. It is incorrect that young people are against this proposal for at least two reasons. The first reason, this proposal is not some special Libra invention, which is a proposal defined in the national programme of action for young people that adopted unanimously this Croatian Parliament in 2002 and which was created as a proposal for over 100 youth associations. The second reason, there are no systematic research into the views of young people, but the last one that was done in 2002 for the cause of 1,500 people conducted by Dr. Spajić-Vrkaš and Vlasta Ilicin, on the question of young people who are the most responsible for solving young people's problems, 482 said that they are precisely every young person who must take responsibility in this way. We can discuss it and it's really a topic for discussion, but this quote of yours is incorrect, it may be your impression, but it's in fact incorrect.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-22-0.u20740	Thank you very much. A gentleman on behalf of the Proposer would sooner, wouldn't he? Here you go, then, on behalf of the promoter.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-22-0.u20741	Here, let a few words just in the name of the promoter. I can say that we are uncomfortablely surprised by this reaction by the IDS gentlemen who have always supported the progressive initiatives that have come, primarily which are working together in Europe and the European Union. Unfortunately, that didn't happen today, because we heard that the proposal for this law is a negation of common sense and so on, we don't think that it fits the truth, just the opposite, as well as some of our other initiatives that didn't get much support, so last week we proposed a law on compulsory military service, last week that initiative didn't get support, but we're sure that in a few years it's going to get that support in this House. We are also sure that this will be with this initiative that is a trend in some countries, i.e.. in some regions of certain countries in Europe, which is certain to be a trend that will be transmitted to more levels, so that in a few years we will be witnessing that in certain EU countries, in some countries it will certainly happen that younger people of 18 years will have the right to vote. The proposal for this law therefore speaks of an active right, the right to choose rather than the right to be chosen, for us it is only the first step, so in the future in terms of equating those younger than 16 years, so that the whole right is down to 16 years, we hope that it will happen, but it would not surprise us in a few years that the IDS would support this our or some similar initiative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-22-0.u20742	Thank you very much. Government representative Mr. Secretary of State, Antun Palaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-22-0.u20743	Mr. Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, the Government has considered the bill proposed by the Club of Representatives of the LIBRE as regards amending the law on the election of members of the representative bodies of the units of local and regional self-government. The government advocates the development of local self-government and is extremely concerned with the participation of as many Croatian voters in the local elections as possible, and the government will do everything in its power in a technical, professional manner in any way that the more citizens participate in the exercise of the right to local self-government, the choice of their representatives because this constitution guarantees the right and the right is even limited in one segment by state power. However, this is not a path that will encourage young people to participate in the work of political bodies, in the work of representative bodies and in the opening presentation, the proponent has pollomised with the government's opinion in a way that the government did not refer to the arguments, to trends in all the reasons set out in the Parliament. But we must say this, the Government but not only does everyone in this country have to stick to the Constitution and the Constitution is the fundamental law of this country. If the Croatian Constitution states that the electoral right is being reached from 18 years of age for us no longer has been discussed, we have not found room for a different interpretation of this constitutional norm in order to allow for some half-election right or the right to choose and not be chosen. Therefore, we are open to all debates, to all opportunities for participation, to encourage young people to participate in political life, especially if the fact that this will affect the reduction of crime, drugs and all but we can do so at professional meetings, at round tables, however, we do not think that such a law as is proposed can be adopted. Of course, the final assessment, if it comes to this, will be given by the Constitutional Court, the Government does not take on itself the jurisdiction of the Constitutional Court but the Government reserves the right to read the Constitution as it writes and we continue to believe that this legal proposal is contrary to Article 45. The Croatian Constitution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-22-0.u20744	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Mr. Representative Dražan Bošnjaković please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-22-0.u20745	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Election law is fundamentally guaranteed by the constitution of political rights of citizens, in modern democratic states consisting of the right to elect their representatives therefore of an active electoral right and the right to be elected to representative bodies and other public positions, that is, passive voting law. Equally, the electoral right implies that all citizens have the same right to vote, one person one vote and each vote has the same value, one vote equals value. The general electoral right in modern democracies is restricted only by formal citizenship and residence in a particular community, age-limit, mental health and civil honor of individuals and by enrolling in the electoral list. Active voting law has been acquired in more than 90% of the world's countries since the age of 18. Some countries have been legally able to vote with a lower age limit and rank for 15 years, Brazil and Nicaragua 16, Indonesia and North Korea 17, while some have demanded a higher age limit, Japan, Cameroon, Morocco, Taiwan and Tunisia for 20 years, Azerbaijan, Fiji, Kuwait, Lebanon, Malaysia, the Ivory Coast, Pakistan and Singapore 21. In some countries, therefore, the age limit in which voting rights are acquired is lower in local than in national elections. This passive electoral right is rarely legally conditioned to a higher age limit for selecting important political positions. Our Constitution has made it very clear in Article 45 that the electoral right of general and equal to that of all Croatian citizens of 18 years of age in accordance with the law and that the voting law is exercised in direct elections by secret vote. We therefore feel that this Law really exists a serious constitutional obstacle to making it because if we were to go into such a legal solution before this, we would have to amend the provision of Article 45. The constitution to go to such a legal solution. In the light of this Act, the Proposer refers to a recommendation of 1315. The 1997 Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, which actually calls on Member States to coordinate the age-limit to achieve a general voting right at 18 years for all elections. We therefore believe that this Law has opened one topic in any case and many of the arguments that the proposer has made here in the opening statement, absolutely deserves to be discussed, in any case and the age of our electoral body and in any case a greater activity of young people in political life, however, we, as a club other than these formal reasons, have to admit that at this point they are an insurmountable obstacle to this, in addition to these formal reasons, we still feel that it is necessary to carry out a slightly larger analysis of whether to go with the reduction and age limits and in any case, I think we need to go with these others to get young people involved more and to live these councils by county, by municipalities, by cities, by schools, so that they are first in such a way that they become more involved in political life and then we will see little of the trend as it is in the world, because I think that this is not yet still the age limit that I have been reduced because these data that I read in this way. Therefore, the Croatian Democratic Community Club, respecting all the arguments made by the applicant and considering that this is a serious topic for discussion, cannot really support this law for these serious reasons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-22-0.u20746	Thank you very much. On behalf of the SDP Club, Ms. Representative Marija Lugaric, please welcome.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-22-0.u20747	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. As I just said, the national youth action programme on our initiative left us from the SDP at the end of 2000 was unanimously supported in the Croatian Parliament in October 2002. One of the 110 measures in the national programme envisions a debate on the introduction of voting rights in local elections for young people from 16 years of age. I would like to start by saying that in the SDP, we support all ideas and initiatives aimed at making young people more involved in social processes especially in today's situation when young people are young, as shown by recent research and everyday practice, mostly uninterested in involvement in political and social life. This proposal aims to encourage young people to accept their own reality more responsibly, to become more involved in decision-making processes. This is particularly important because the participation of young people in social life is one of the most important indicators of success in general state policy for and towards young people, and even political participation as that indicator is particularly isolated. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I don't think we can define the chastity that the social status of young people mostly stems from a policy that has been established for young people. What kind of policy is this today? For the first time, the 2002 national programme has defined both strategic and concrete content for young people. Strategically, it comes from young people as a resource, which means that young people view as representatives of the idealized future. And in that sense, this proposal by LIBRE is fully in line with this fundamental week that we and the SDP... The opposite approach is to view young people as a problem, to view young people as a population in a sensitive stage of development and a potential source of danger. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And here we from the SDP are particularly warning that the policy towards the youth of the current HDZ government, despite pre-election promises and the declared declarations, is unfortunately headed in this direction, in the direction of the opposite, uniformly established policy towards young people. Let us only remember in what contexts the young have been mentioned in the past 8 or 9 months. Young people were mentioned in the context of drug abuse, violence, alcoholism, road injuries, and demographic potential. In this discussion, it is not in the least of my mind to reduce these problems, of course, these are major problems which are fortunately affecting a small part of the population, but unfortunately, such an approach completely ignores and completely excludes the focus of the public and politics of a large majority of normal and capable young people who want to be equal participants in this society and who do not want to be seen as a problem. A sign of such misorientation of HDZ's youth policy was already visible at the time of Prime Minister Sanader's entry into office and in the formation of new ministries. We have already warned in this debate that the abolition of the State Institute for the Protection of Family, Motherhood and Youth, as well as the inclusion of young people at the level of the Child and Youth Department within the Family Department in the Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity, is quite the opposite of European weekdays becoming a rule, and this has also been confirmed by the Council of Europe advisory mission when it was here in June of last year that a special administrative body is needed for coordination, realisation and responsibility for policy towards young people. But, well, all together, this institutional solution wouldn't be a problem if a uniformly established policy towards young people were implemented. But that's not the way it is. Implementing plans have not been adopted and even the implementation and financing of existing projects for young people has been halted. The funds for the national youth programme itself have been reduced by 5 million kuna in the 2004 budget compared to 2003. For 4 million kunas are reduced funds to improve the November standard, for millions of kunas are reduced funds for entrepreneurs' incubators, etc., not to repeat everything we said when we were making the profit. Unfortunately, it does not care, the budget rebalances are reduced items for the preservation of youth reproductive health, for the prevention of alcoholism, for the student centres and for the employment programmes. To make the situation even more tragic, this left behind, already twice the reduction in the state budget is not being spent and existing projects are not being implemented. Thus, only 8% of the planned funds were spent for monitoring and improving youth policy during the first 6 months, to promote social participation of young people only 5%, for programmes targeted at young people, no single kuna was spent, no single kuna was spent to promote youth entrepreneurship, no single kuna was spent to encourage entrepreneurship, of the 17 million kunas for spring centres was spent. There is more than that in the discussion of budget implementation. From all of this, it is obvious that young people for this government are not important when they have invested zero kunas in it. And let us remember Prime Minister Sanader's guarantees, and I quote, "We young people will not be taken to the future without hope," I don't know how you do, but in the SDP, it seems to us that I am based on what is done for young people, i.e. It doesn't work better, that guarantee looks more like hope without a future. Well, well...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-22-0.u20748	I'm sorry, ma'am, you're completely out of line and you're just holding a lecture here on what the government didn't do on some powers, and you're not even going to discuss the subject of this, this law, but something else. I'm asking you to get back on the subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-22-0.u20749	I'm sorry, I talk about the subject all the time because the topic is how to involve young people in social life.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-22-0.u20750	Here's the theme of having the right to vote, the right to vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-22-0.u20751	All right, all right. We want to go to Europe, and here we agree, the European Commission in its White Paper, which is called "The New Encouragement for European Youth", defines a policy towards young people who are solely responsible for Member States and expects the country to be effective mechanisms, and this proposal by LIBRE can be one of such mechanisms to ensure that young people are involved in the life of local, national and European communities. So far, we've done nothing on this plan. During the term of office of the last government, more precisely half of 2003, a draft law on youth councils was drafted. The Youth Council would be established at local level, municipalities and cities from representatives and representatives of youth associations and young political springs, students, students and representatives of the local community and would be responsible for representing the interests and needs of all youth groups at the level of a specific local community. The plan was to pass the law in June of this year, which was also adopted by the current government in the national programme of Croatia's accession to the European Union for 2004. Unfortunately, like other things, not only have we not passed this law in June, but he has not reached the Parliament until today’s day. I don't think it should be repeated that the adoption of this Law is our obligation in the process of joining the European Union, but more importantly, this Law and the one we are now discussing are heading towards the same goal. Include as many young people as possible in formal or minor formal processes of political decision-making. In the SDP, we strongly advocate that this goal becomes both a reality and a daily demonstration. We're looking at this Parliament here, us of 152 MPs and MPs is only three under 30 years old and all three of us are from the SDP. No other party has anyone under 30 here in the Parliament. For 30 years, the limit towards which statistics are done at European level has been formally established. It is a similar situation in city councils and municipal councils and city halls where our younger SDPs have about two hundredths. Both at the end and according to the conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-22-0.u20752	I'm sorry, ma'am. I hate to do this to anyone. You're reopening some other topics. Listen, what do you think the MPs are doing right now, and they start talking about anything else? Come on, please, come back on the subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-22-0.u20753	Mr. Vice President, on behalf of the HDZ Club, my colleague spoke about the Youth Council, and that's all I'm talking about. The participation of young people in social life is an important indicator of the success of politics towards young people. As an indicator of this social status, particularly isolated political participation. The situation in Croatia today is such that this level is so low that it is seen as a real threat to the future of representative democracy. Unfortunately, though, the shifts to which young people should be involved do not come on their own. As far as these topics are concerned, it is important that we all know and be aware of the fact that involving young people in social life depends mainly on the willingness of the elderly to tell the young, I can tell us to leave part of the space. Young people cannot fight for this space alone, and there we must be aware of these responsibilities and give up the works to say my own powers for the benefit of young people. In that sense, our support for such and similar initiatives. This is why the SDP Club is proposing to the Parliament today to draw two conclusions: 1.to task the Government to deliver within 30 days to the Croatian Parliament the Proposal for a Law on Youth Councils, which is also an obligation, which the Government itself has defined in its accession programme to the European Union and 2nd to provide a report on the implementation of the National Programme of Action for Youth and Implementation Operational Plans so that we can discuss all this. We are proposing both of these conclusions in order to address and make the best decisions that should cause as many young people as possible to be responsible for decision-making in the situation of the deprived constitutional and legal problems that we have today. In view of what we have said in the debate so far, especially by the HDZ Club, we in the SDP have no doubt that the clubs will support these conclusions because I don't think anyone should forget that young people in public affairs and politics will be as much as we do older or you older open up space. In the SDP, we think that door needs to be opened wide. It is also our obligation, and I think it is also high time for politics to turn away from major ideological problems towards the specific problems of young people who are now completely neglected. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-22-0.u20754	Thank you very much. Fellow MPs have here several corrections of incorrect allegations. I beg of you, I'm reluctant to intervene from the President's desk, but there's been an entire almost off-the-book exposure here. Another thing, qualifications that are more difficult or disqualifying are not the strength of the argument. I dare say that moderate qualifications are a force of argument. Especially if they express themselves outside the context of this bill. Those disqualifications. Please make this more, if this was someone else, I don't know how to react. I've reacted twice, and I'm asking that we stick to the agenda. And now Emil Tomljanovic has a correction to the incorrect allegations and several other MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-22-0.u20755	Mr. Vice President, in a series of incorrect allegations, I will only correct one because I think that he, both as an quote and as an untrue, paints the whole message in the presentation that we had the opportunity to hear. A respected colleague said: “For the Croatian Democratic Community and the Government of the Republic of Croatia and its President Ivo Sanader, the youth are not important.” This is not only not true because from a whole series of procedures and government and all of this in the last 8 months of the Croatian Democratic Community programme and its work, it does not correspond to the truth but it is offensive to every political party and, of course, for mine, for the Croatian Democratic Community. And especially this isn't true, and I don't think this should be discussed. In the context of the proposed law, therefore, the law which, therefore, only treats one entirely different issue, quite different from what we have now heard in your presentation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-22-0.u20756	Thank you very much. Let's keep going in the direction of correcting opinions. And since we're so tolerated about it then that's what we keep looking forward to. Correction of the incorrect quote Mr. Franjo Arabovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-22-0.u20757	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen! I think this is an exposure, I'm very surprised, given the fact that it seems to me that Miss Lugaric did not do it, but someone wrote it. And I would like to correct one thing as she says when she is young, “no kuna is invested in young people in Croatia.” That she means young SDP or young Croatia? We're currently investing a lot of money in youth. I will tell you 38 thousand young people this year in the “Young Croatia” sports games. Which is the money financed by our Ministry, the Croatian Ministry for a large part. And now whether you're glad that we invested in young Croatia, and maybe we didn't invest in young SDP, I apologize. ... [[/The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-22-0.u20758	Please, please, let's be in accordance with our Rules of Procedure. Don't go in there. Don't remind me it's past someone's time. And when it comes to the other side. And when it comes to you in person, then it lights up here for five minutes and you keep talking. Don't make me talk like that. This is the chairman's office, if you don't have the authority to warn me about it. Mr. Vlado Jelkovac, correction of an incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-22-0.u20759	Ms. Lugaric said: "This government does not care because the government has invested 0 kuna in them," and it argued with several items in the report on the achievement of the budget, of course, which are potentially in favour of this thesis. Of course that's not true because there are a lot of those other items where the needs of young people are respected, but of course the missus did not quote them.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-22-0.u20760	Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect quote, Mr. Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-22-0.u20761	Dear Mr. Vice President, I will correct the incorrect quote of my colleague, Lugaric, in which she claimed that only the SDP potentiates the young fit to be in the Parliament, to be in Croatia's social life. I can now say against it that we can be proud that we have the youngest mayor in Croatia, in Osijek-Baranja County and that we have the youngest mayor in Croatia, in Lika-Podravska i.e. in... so much compared to the SDP. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-22-0.u20762	Thank you very much. Mr. Vladimir Plesko, correction of an incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-22-0.u20763	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague, Mrs Lugaric said this way, that "the opposition to this law of the HDZ wants to allow, does not want to allow political affirmation of young people" which is not true, but is already true today that a law that provides for the rights of young people of 18 years of age is being discussed and that is contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and that it has naturally mixed two basic things. The law under discussion today and its complete meaning for the debate has brought about something completely different.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-22-0.u20764	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Mrs. Marija Lugaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-22-0.u20765	Dear Mr. Chairman, my colleague Plesko and some speakers have previously injured Article 209. I didn't say it, I didn't say it, and you didn't correct my quote. And Article 144 was also injured. The Rules of Procedure, which says that in the first reading, the first reading of the Law also includes a general debate on the proposal for a law based on further reasons.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-22-0.u20766	Thank you very much. Let's move on. On behalf of the HSS Club, Mr. Agent Ante Markov.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-22-0.u20767	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, Mr. Proposers, colleagues and colleagues! The HSS gives up the obvious right to fire political arrows in the name and for the account of young people and we want to lead this debate in a different tone because I think we'll all agree that the least we need is to use young people to talk about politics especially about the one they don't support. And they certainly do not support such aspirations. First of all, we consider this Law in the HSS as a particular declaration initiative to be consistent with the natural things in the process, and the processes in social life happen and the fact that we are sitting here today and that we have the right to vote is distinct in a year by some people who obviously didn't all have the same attitude. But a certain policy won. And the general right to vote thank God is present today everywhere in the world or almost everywhere in the world. But it is always good to remember what history remembers and to say that there once was a National Assembly in this city. THAT there was no right to vote, that only in 48 years, by the regulation of Ban Jelačić, we introduced a civil right of vote that did not involve women's right to vote. Of course, the further development of social consciousness and relations created relations and circumstances in which the right to vote was right to consult all citizens of a country. Of course, the future time will also bring its new rules of conduct that will be proportionate to the social will, the needs of man to the needs of those circumstances in which it will take place. In this sense, first of all, wishing for the right of young people to wish from this pay phone to say that the very perceptions that are often associated with young people in Croatia are not interested in politics, that they are subject to the use of intoxicating drugs. That the corruptions of this society are often spoken with great disdain in the context of their ideas and their understandings. And bringing more often into the day-to-day political connotations. I think it's good and it's a unique attitude, so if you want and the conclusion of this debate is not the fundamental objective of this debate to determine whether it's time to change the 18 to 16. It's a question of social set-up, of plight, of the conditions that will take place. But it is very important to report in terms of this topic, and I hope that this is not going down from the path set in this material, in which the text is to be sent to young people in politics, that it is a place for young people to decide on all the important things that local self-government and regional self-government are the place where they can and must accumulate all of it, all the young people they have and who are not burdened with either conversion, or malversions or relationships that exist in society. And who by the nature of his being can have another more contained character than we have here today. And I believe that in this very sense, all the pronunciation lies on the very careful rejection of everything that can be interpreted negatively from the aspect of youth. Therefore, those who refuse and those who agree with such a proposal must be aware that the way of spoken words often changes and the content of what is said. So it's not good to have arrows here that can lead to absurdity. And I believe that even though there is no constitutional legal possibility, there is definitely no constitutional possibility of changing this age limit from 18 to 16 because it also causes the need to change the Constitution, and a whole series of other documents. But this debate must bear witness to the seriousness of this House in terms of our commitment that young people have their right, that we must support it. And that those changes that took place hundreds of years ago will happen in the future and should happen. Well, it's that idea that often the church itself advocates, which is strengthening individuality. A real man as an individual. The right in which consumption and politics and economies and social gatherings will be interpreted in the name of man and man. Not by putting it into some collective that will turn it into a general voting element or machine. Therefore, the question that definitely raises this small article with its 18-to-16 amendment is actually one big and serious social debate that should be taken very seriously in this House and that should be the legacy of our responsibility for the future in which we all swear so much and that is our youth. No matter how much their lives are burdened with this or that they have the right and they must get the chance, unfortunately not only declarative but those opportunities must be real, and therefore all that is decided, all that we make, we just have to stand up for that right, and we just have to testify that we really support one such one of their aspirations. In this sense and thus realizing this proposal of the law, the HSS Club is absolutely on the side of young people and will support all those initiatives and all those solutions, so that, indirectly, when conditions are obtained and such solutions on the reduction of age for the achievement of the general right of hunger are given at local or national level anyway. Therefore, our support for these efforts and these efforts and these proposals. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-22-0.u20768	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HSPa Club, Mr. Representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-22-0.u20769	Dear Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The HSPa club would be fine if in the Constitution for 16 years we would determine the right to vote both actively and passively and we would be happy to support the adoption of this law. For which reason, look only at the analysis of the last parliamentary elections the youngest voter is the HSPA average of 34 years. Look at the analysis of the radio it was a college of political sciences. And the oldest voters are SDP and HDZ voters, the oldest voters on average. And according to the atom, at this point, it would be realistic for us to actually respond to this legal proposal. But we are legalists and in the name of our party Croatian party rights and because of this we cannot vote for such a legal proposal without amending the Constitution. Because we know in the Constitution it's exactly 18 years old. So I have to say here again that we can't share a mole. Is the youth of the HDZa, the youth of the SDP, the young man living in Croatia, is Croatia. As we keep saying, it's not the government of the SDP, it's not the HDZ, it's the government of the Republic of Croatia. And what is the government's decision by citizens in parliamentary elections. So I think the late President Tudjman is listening today so he can hear these divisions again, your youth, our youth, their youth. We're little enough to share all the time. Let's do what we can for young people, to have perspective in every other sense both in every other sense and in education, in employment and in everything else. So we'll give them the opportunity to have both passive and active voting rights. Speaking of this proposal, it means in a certain way even though it is given here in the proposal Libre so-called. Passive law means I can only choose in local elections. And I can't be chosen. Then I don't really see in that part of it that there's a lot going on around here right now to get the bride involved. According to the fact that this is constitutionally possible, it means that the youth from 16 to 18 would only have passive voting rights, meaning she could vote and could not be elected. That's not right again. If we agree and if such trends are to change the constitution to be a 16-year voting right, then you can't give a part that you can vote, and you can't be chosen. Because where it's going again, it means something's being given again, and a young man doesn't have much use for it. Speaking of this very law, we must look to the fact that the Law itself on the selection of members of the representative bodies of the local and regional self-government is mature for change. We know for ourselves how many cases have occurred after the election that there have been some crisis in the area and cities and municipalities and everything else, and then it is clear to you that the Ministry of Justice when giving legal opinions on these matters has been called to court practice. We know that court practice is not a source of law in our legal system, in Anglo-Saxon it is, but it means how deficient the law tells you and this fact that judicial practice, that the Ministry of Justice has been called to judicial practice. It also says enough that this law needs to be amended and complemented, especially as they are soon, meaning that the year should be regular elections for local administration and self-government in a way that all these shortcomings that have so far proved to be in practice in various situations and cases to be fixed, so that what happened to the Ministry of Justice is that one opinion in a variety of situations, the Administrative Court normally, and these opinions have always been in such situations politically given opinions as to whom anyone in power is responding, gives such an opinion in some kind of dispute on the ground, so that clear and accurate treatment in all the variants is decided. Therefore, the HSP Club, although I wish there were 16 years in the Constitution, cannot vote in favour of this legislative proposal, although I am telling us at this point would be the most appropriate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-22-0.u20770	Thank you very much. Correction of an incorrect quote, Mr. Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-22-0.u20771	Thank you very much. Let me just correct the allegations of fellow Kovacevic that there are local government and self-government elections ahead of us. Namely, there is no local administration in Croatia, because if the administration is state-owned, there is local and regional self-government. I am correcting this because we are helping ourselves to drop the term of local administration out of use, because in Croatia, there is no law or Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-22-0.u20772	Thank you very much. We're moving on to a ten-minute hearing. The first is Mr. Representative Nenad Stazic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-22-0.u20773	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The purpose of this bill's proposal is to involve young people in political life and that's completely justified. Young people are mostly disinterested in politics. That proves their weak response to the polls. Why are young people so uninterested in politics? So I think their general view of politics and politicians is that politics decides on them, and that they themselves have little influence on political developments. When it comes to young people, politicians then usually say that young people should be cared for, conditions should be created, perspectives opened. But what is the real relationship between young people and politics? We've heard here, here, in this assembly, there are only three young people under 30 in this assembly. All three of them are SDP. In the Zagreb City Assembly, of its 19 members, SDP has 5 younger than 28 years. The HDZ in the Parliament has no one younger than 30 years. For example. in the Zagreb City Assembly he had, but what he had you went with Pasalić. It's a shame the young are gone...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-22-0.u20774	Mr. Representative, come back on the subject, on the basis of Article 210. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-22-0.u20775	Mr. Vice President, the law we're discussing has two articles. Article 1 says: the number "18" is replaced by the number "16", and Article 2 reads, "This law takes effect on the eighth day of its publication in "The People's Journal." You do not ask me to talk about replacing number 18 with number 16 and not to talk about anything else, because I remind you of Article 144(2) of our Rules of Procedure which says that in the first reading, and we are discussing this law in the first reading, the debate is also in principle. It means details, but also as a general debate. The topics to which a specific legislative proposal applies or may be in contact with them. This legislative proposal speaks of involving young people in politics. I'm sorry, you can't tell me that the relationship...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-22-0.u20776	He's not talking, he's talking about 16 and 18.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-22-0.u20777	He's talking about 16 and 18, yeah.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-22-0.u20778	It's a broader topic that you want to talk about, and then we'll find out about it, and so far this is a legal proposal and please stick to the legal proposal. That's your second warning, or I'll take your word for it. On the basis of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-22-0.u20779	I wouldn't be surprised if you were preventing a debate about a legal proposal, about the position of young people in politics, when it's a topic...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-22-0.u20780	It's not about the position of young people in politics, it's about turning 18 into 16.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-22-0.u20781	Which means that turning 18 into 16 means allowing young people to actively engage in politics, i.e. the position of young people in politics and the position of policy towards young people. And please warn if there is any chance of a debate from the HDZ Club to discuss and discuss exclusively the change in figure 18 in number 16, but please do not prevent me from discussing. Because you have no right to do that.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-22-0.u20782	Don't ask me, I didn't ask you to help me run this session. I lead her as best I know her and I warn you once more, don't be so persistent, because you are constantly in conflict here in the Parliament, so to speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-22-0.u20783	I'm not in conflict, I'm talking here on behalf of those...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-22-0.u20784	You're always passing something and you're teaching everyone a lesson. Please stick to the subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-22-0.u20785	I speak here on behalf of those who choose me. Excuse me, Parliament is also a representative body and don't stop me from speaking on behalf of the electoral body. And it's a shame to continue, it's a shame that there are no more young people in politics or even within your party, Mr. Vice President. Why? Because then maybe they could react and probably react when, for example, they do. announces the abolition of some tax reliefs that young people are currently concerned. For example. for the adaptation of the apartment or for the payment of the rent. It's about young people and if they were involved in politics more actively, if they had the right to vote, if they had the right to vote, then they'd be opposed to these announcements, and if they were here in the assembly maybe they wouldn't vote them...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-22-0.u20786	It's in the Parliament and stopping... Please, if it's up to you, give your term, you've got plenty of years, someone younger. Don't always lecture us.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-22-0.u20787	So different parties have a different relationship with young people, they take different care of young people. For example. The Democratic Center, DC, is its young people, bad students, employed as trainees in county courts. Good luck, little party, little and young people, so that process we hope is over. There's something else interesting about DC. They give up their young. They gave up their youth, so they gave up their member, Mr. Maria Bulum, said he was not their member, although I have one news here from "Free Dalmatia" since 5 June 2004, the issues are young. The president of the Split DC said at the press conference that he...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-22-0.u20788	You've moved away again, Mr. Stazic, and I'm taking your word. You have no right to discuss this agenda item anymore and please sit down. Please don't step away from the subject, let's not convert one article, one or two articles of the law into a general debate to gather knows what. We all admit it's not constitutionally founded, but we'll talk. Why are we talking? Let's open a discussion about it and we'll talk about it, not under article 2 of the law, and then we'll talk about what comes to mind. Article 210 of this Rules of Procedure is clear. Did you ask for a replica or a correction? ... Here you go. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Mr. Frano Piploic, correction of the incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-22-0.u20789	Correction of the inaccuracy of fellow Stazic. The Democratic Centre did not hire its members, but he hired citizens who reported neatly to the competition and services that made the decision, means the commission. They hired it, so not the Democratic Center. And besides, it would have been better if you'd decoded a respected colleague of this effort because he wants to be reduced from 18 to 16, it means to give the right to younger citizens, passive rights. You're probably 16 years old with more quality materials for processing and manipulation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-22-0.u20790	Thank you very much. Let's move on with the debate. The word has Mrs. Ivanka Roksandić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-22-0.u20791	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's a whole series today, and we're hearing a debate about it, and I'm gonna have to argue with the public in the first place if you're gonna listen to our debate, and I'd say that young people don't even have the right to vote in the first place. Well, young people are 18 years old, it's just about changing the age limit. So it's really just about changing an article according to my colleague Radosa's proposal and I think he had a very good intention to allow young people to participate in social and political life as soon as possible, but as several times it has to be said today that this is impossible, because it would actually violate the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. I think it's a little premature without certain preparation of young people from once to determine these rights. I agree with the argument that today they are young and mature, that they are more educated, more directed, turned to European orientations and very critical. But from the very explanation of this proposal, it is clear as the Proposer states, and I quote this from the reasons, it is necessary to enable the appropriate education of young people as a preparation for the application of this right, i.e. to accept this responsibility. I fully agree with the above and for this reason, and also because of the experience we have in working with young people just 15 to 18 years of age, we young people must prepare for this responsibility during this period, because the right to vote is also a responsibility. What's most important for this age of young people, I'm talking about this age between 15 and 18 is that young people who are going or coming out of family authority at this point in their life. They are very often resistant to both parents and adults. To them, peers are a role model. They're in the experiment phase. They're curious. They want to prove themselves and prove themselves. I'm just talking about the character of young people so we can figure out how young they are...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-22-0.u20792	Return to article 2 as proposed by everyone else.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-22-0.u20793	I just want to prove how young they are between 16 and 18 years old, and I have to tell you that they can learn a lot at school at that age. At that very age, and that my thesis at the beginning that we can prepare them to be and have the right to vote at 18 tells us that even in some cities we have heard in debates, young people participate in city councils and very successfully, that those in high school learn about politics are involved in the alphabet of political thinking. So this age limit that stands in our Constitution I think it's good and that in 18 years of life young people are exactly that year when they can really have the right to vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-22-0.u20794	Thank you very much. Now he has the word of representative Mr. Mato Arlovic and Vice President of the House. I'm sorry, you had a correction. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-22-0.u20795	Just facts do, correcting an incorrect assumption. counterpart Roksandić said in the first sentence they were young from 18 years of age. The fact is that the only thing that defines young people is a national policy that has been unanimously established in the Parliament, and it defines young people from 15 to 29 years of age for reasons I will not explain here. There are different criteria in Europe. What is found in Croatia is that young people between 15 and 29 years of age, and not from 18 years of age, and in that sense, the alleged colleague is incorrect.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-22-0.u20796	Thank you very much. Here's the vice president, Mr. Mato Arlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-22-0.u20797	Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. It cannot, of course, be debated only for figures 18 and 16 but must be discussed in accordance with Article 144 concerning Article 132. Rules of Procedure. Article 132 speaks of what the legislative proposal may contain and in this respect at least when discussing the draft law can be discussed, as this is a constitutional justification for the adoption of the law, etc. And therefore let me immediately warn that I think that this bill is actually a good basis to open a debate on a single problem, in fact how to allow young people to express their specific interests and needs and, by my deep conviction not only at local but also wider social communities and that they can potentially influence the preparation and decision-making that will be addressed, such is their question, of their interest and for their needs. And in this respect, I personally advocate the question of where young people should actually be allowed, or where the Parliament should consider the possibility of opening the law to the possibility that young people may have advisory bodies in local self-government units and not only in local units, but also in the units of regional self-government, but also in the Parliament of the Republic of Croatia. Why not? They're not the bodies that will make decisions. These are the bodies that will give some incentives, initiatives, and for the bodies who decide it will have a character or could, if agreed and determined by law, have the character of a mandatory initiative that must be considered and discussed because it is about the interest of one, specific interests and meeting the specific needs of one part of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Another thing I would like to point out and say, is that I couldn't support this bill's proposal, or any other one that leads in this way actually to the division within the framework of electoral law, and in a substantive sense. Namely, this bill primarily divides actively from passive voting rights, and for the first time separates that one who can choose cannot be chosen and chosen. According to my deep conviction, not just to the philosophy of Article 45. The constitution rather than the spirit of the constitution, in relation to the spirit of democracy, would be difficult to prescribe by the electoral right only to vote rather than to allow the electoral right to take part in the decision on those issues which are of direct interest and ultimately only the voting right was not related to the fact and was created by the fact that only the choice is made but that it can be decided through elected representatives on certain issues and interfaces. The second division is the division by which a specific territorial criterion would be introduced, that we could vote or be able to participate and vote for representatives in local and regional self-government bodies, and I can't repeat for the state level, I think that if we wanted to, then we would prescribe the burden for the young and therefore further detimise them to go to the elections, instead of stimulating them to go out to the elections and stimulate them to the elections, we can if we prescribe the right and the possibility to be elected, and of course they choose their representatives by my deep conviction not in the part in which they could not... but could form legislative bodies or councils of young people, they can be called and in a different way it doesn't matter, which part they would allow. Otherwise, this is the kind of manipulation that suggests that young people would only have an obligation to vote, could actually be treated as a certain way of misusing young people. The second thing to consider is the question which rights, with the right to choose and to be elected, must be further added to the political segment, political rights and freedoms of man and citizen or each one by our constitution must be extended to young people. It is not enough to say that it will reduce the age limit that will allow young people to see how this proposal goes from just choosing, by my deep conviction that they are chosen and elected, but not in representative decision-making bodies, but in advisory councils or bodies that will have the possibility of legal initiative to decide on their issues and needs, until it is certainly changed by the Constitution, the other thing is that if we decide one day that the Constitution should change, and eventually really enable the status with full civil rights and freedoms of citizens, and the citizen not from 18 but from 16 years of age, I think that this is specific and that there are specific issues of compliance not only with the recommendation of the Council of Europe, and that I must indicate it to a whole series of conventions of international communities that protect citizens and children, minors and, of course, of course, to a certain age of age, should be taken into account whether it could be possible to speak of any kind of justice and may be, in any way, in which way, in which way, in which way, in which way, it would be possible, in order to be possible for them to be possible for them to speak, if we can be able to continue to speak to speak, if we can be able to speak, if we can be able to be able to be able to be able to speak. CONSIDERING all these reasons, it is clear that it will not be possible to vote for this Bill proposal because in this context it is not sufficiently in line with the Constitution, but certainly for this proposal of the law to consider the possibility for Parliament to adopt one specific conclusion, that through this conclusion the Government and, of course, other interested bodies dealing with youth issues, as well as our civil society associations, which are engaged in preparing an appropriate thematic debate in this Parliament on the situation, importance and... the role of young people and of course the position of young people in achieving and protecting their rights and interests in the common social segment, starting from units of local self-government to the state level and in this context, to consider only then the possibility that, through changes and complementing the relevant legislation, these issues should be incorporated, of course, that they cannot be elected and elected in the name of the state, i.e. unit of local self-government, but that they may be able to provide that they have the need to have an openness to discuss their needs and to discuss their needs in order to take care in order to discuss the matter. The Council of Europe, and in the Republic of Croatia, and in this respect, or on the basis of all this I have said, I must say that this bill, however it seems to be moved against the constitutional provision, is actually welcome to open this issue and that we can talk about this issue because we must not forget that our youth, our youth, and when she is 16 she is very well informed about the issues, problems and interests she represents of which she is concerned. The second question is that they do not have the opportunity to show that they participate in this every time. They certainly many of the issues concerned by the Parliament or the units of local self-government will not be interested at all, but when it comes to their interests and needs, they will certainly want to be in this respect if we come to the opportunity to open the thematic and then... the amendment and addition of the Law to advocate the possibility for young people to open space and units of local self-government, regional self-government and state authorities, above all in the Parliament, that through advisory bodies or their councils may have the opportunity to discuss those issues that concern them and, of course, give the incentive to discuss these issues in the representative body, regardless of whether local regional self-government or Croatian parliaments and who will then have the obligation to discuss this and to take the appropriate decision by taking into account and the exercise of constitutional rights and freedoms concerning young persons in our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-22-0.u20798	I thank Mr. Vice President Arlovic. And now Mr. Krunoslav Markovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-22-0.u20799	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Unlike these pre-election talks and conversations, I went to two schools and talked to that population 16 to 18 years old and I can tell you that it's not really an interest to vote, although one part of them likes to talk politics, they also get involved in the talks and say that politics and television are too much, that they're quite often angry at their own when they come home to observe political shows all the time, and there were two of them, three of them who were voting, which is probably a youth of SDP who are a little more aware. I think all of this between 16 and 18 years since it's not anywhere, so now we want to push it in here is still more to manipulate young people, because we can promise young people if you vote, so you don't have to go to the army, so you don't have to study until we open up the college again in Kumrovec. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-22-0.u20800	I thank Mr. Markovanovic. The word is Mr. Zvonimir Mršić. He's gone. He's losing his right to debate now. Mr. Rade Ivas, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-22-0.u20801	Dear Vice President, colleagues and fellow MPs. Today we are discussing the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the selection of members of the representative bodies of units of local and regional self-government whose proposal is by the Club of Representatives of the LIBRE, which is proposed to lower the age limit for obtaining the right to vote at local levels. Certainly, lowering the age limit for obtaining voting rights in local, regional, national elections is a sovereign trend and that these issues have been dealt with by the Council of Europe for many years but so far no European country has reduced that age line. It should also praise the proposals' intentions in terms of motivation and early involvement of the young population in all aspects of social and political life. Among other things, allowing them to vote in local elections earlier. The second question is whether this young population is interested in including it at 16 years of age. I can begin by saying that the proposal for a law is in conflict with the provision of Article 45. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, which stipulates that Croatian citizens have a general and equal electoral right, which is acquired from the age of 18. Also, the proposal to give voters 16 years of age the active right to vote in the elections for local and regional self-government in which the right to vote continues to be acquired from 18 years of age is not in line with the fundamental constitutional principles. But I'd like to raise a few questions here that I think we should resolve at this stage. First of all, the question is, can anyone have a partial right to vote? It is difficult to defend the thesis that someone is able to make a political decision and going to the polls is a very active political, political activity, at local and not national level. It is the exact same business, the same responsibility and power, regardless of local or national level. It's really not clear how someone would have, someone had little, so they didn't have any voting rights, so someone could have the right to respond in constructing the representative body of the executive authority at local rather than state level. I think one question is definition and adulthood. How it's possible to tell someone you're entitled to vote and you're not an adult. It turns out that 16-year-olds could do one of the most important jobs in democracy, go to the polls and not be able to carry out a number of private jobs related to adulthood. The same legal statement... The responsibility of a 16-year-old so we could, so it might happen that I can go to the polls, but I can't get into the penitentiary. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I think here and try, these proposals try and even two things, work ability and voting rights, based on an argument on the fact that work ability is acquired at 16 years of age. But here we can ask the question that these two categories differ by time, namely, voting law with certain completed years of life does not end and the duration of working ability is, for example, by leaving retirement is abolished. I think that these and a number of other issues are current issues that should be discussed, resolve them, and then move on eventually into these changes. Finally, giving local voting rights to 16-year-olds must require changes to a number of laws such as election, family, criminal law and clearly should be made to change in the old. And clearly, because of these, in the first row for these reasons, I can't support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-22-0.u20802	Thank you very much. Now the word has Mr. Representative Emil Tomljanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-22-0.u20803	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, so here I am going to focus my debate on just what is important or most important by not going into sociologically different analyses, the issues in question, and I hope and try to be precise or concise in that sense. The proposed amendments to the laws that take place, hence the active right to vote in the elections for local, or regional self-government, would give all of these people 16 years of age instead of being regulated by 18 years of age. The proposed changes to the active right of vote in terms of age would separate or separate from passive voting rights and therefore the right to be chosen which would continue to be acquired from 18 years of age. That's the point of the whole story, and that's where we come across all these legal and constitutional legal problems, so let's get on with it. First, it is crystal clear and almost all speakers repeated or pointed out in their discussions, so the proposed changes are directly contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. By way of derogation from Article 45(1) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013, the The Constitution of Croatian citizens, therefore, has little, general and equal voting rights with 18 years of age and according to the law. What does that mean? Thus, such a voting right is exercised in direct elections and in secret voting. The Institutes or the Institute of Constitutional Law, of course, of general and equal voting law, does not imply a time-limiting of the acquisition of the rights in question and any legal solution contrary to the provision of Article 45. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia between the rest of the Constitution and the fundamental constitutional principles of equalising all in terms of the acquisition of rights and obligations in this case of the Constitution, before the Constitution, of course, before the law. The intensities of the proposings are absolutely not acceptable even when it is called for by Council of Europe's recommendation of 97th year 115, which makes a recommendation to lower the age limit for the achievement of general voting rights but at 18 years of age and in which there is no secretion, i.e. a different age-long acquisition of the right of activity from passive voting rights. At the time of 97th and today, practice in all countries as we like to say Western europe or Western modern democracies, we know that, we have had the opportunity to hear it today but they are trying to reach that age limit of 18. So we have 21 years old, 23, somewhere even more when adulthood expires, rights and obligations are acquired, and when young people are therefore allowed to vote actively and passively in any case. So it's still above, over 18 years old. The proposed amendments to the law cannot even be considered a valid parliamentary initiative, because today we have had plenty of opportunities to discuss the issue in question because it implies not only amending the law but also amending the basic constitutional provisions, which absolutely implies a different approach to the issue in question and regarding the constituent elements of the legal order also implies a different approach to amendments, i.e. amending the constitutional legal solution. Due to all this and regardless of the first reading, the proposal in question cannot be accepted without prejudice to the basic constitutional provisions and fundamental constitutional principles elaborated by the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. Finally, it is absolutely necessary to distinguish between the various parliamentary initiatives that, in the future or in the future, should result in certain normative changes, therefore, in relation to amendments and additions to laws that are directly contrary to constitutional provisions. All the above certainly represents a foothold in all those considerations that the proposed changes are rejected as unacceptable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-22-0.u20804	Thank you very much. She has the word of Mrs Mirjana Brnadić, a representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-22-0.u20805	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. I am sure that the Club of Representatives of the LIBRE as a proposal to amend the law on the selection of members of local and regional self-government representatives, which lowers the age limit for obtaining voting rights from 18 to 16 years, knew that the proposed amendment was contrary to Article 45. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, which is why the Government has also rejected this proposal which has been repeatedly and here in the Assembly of the Assembly benches and said so. That is why I read and respect this proposal in fact only as a good intention of proposing that young people are motivated to get involved as early as possible in all aspects of social and political life. By interpreting this proposal with the trends of some already adopted solutions in certain European countries, i.e. the text of the 1997 Council of Europe recommendation 1-3-1-5 parliamentary assembly, I do not accept it as a pattern of imagery on our occasions. I think it's premature without the right preparation for young people to establish these rights. The promoter says that the direct cause of dealing with this issue is a general impression of the loss of the interest of young people for social processes, especially for political life. Following the thinking of young people can say that they are losing interest in social processes, especially political life, which could be a topic for someone else and a broader debate that we have already heard here. I agree with the opinion of the motionor and the opinion of my colleagues in the debate that young people today are more educated and more directed, more critical and so on. I also agree that in our curriculum it is necessary to educate young people more widely and prepare them for the exercise of this right and to accept responsibility, most important of all for young people, for their own opinions and responsibilities for their own decisions. It has already been stated here that in some cities there are councils of young people who are very well accepted. So young people want to get involved in social life and thus accept responsibility and responsibility for their ideas and actions, and we need to give them that chance and not only in cities but also in small communities. The education of young people primarily from family to school to all segments of society will result in the interest of young people in social and political life. So we prepare them well for their civil rights and obligations and then consider the possibility of introducing electoral law at the age of 16 and thereby applying the 1997 Council of Europe’s recommendation to 1-3-1-5-5. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-22-0.u20806	Thank you very much. The Croatian Democratic Community Club. Honorable Vice-President Luka Bebic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-22-0.u20807	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament! This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day The Rules of Procedure for the Law and Proposal of the Law need to meet certain conditions, and the first is the constitutional basis for the adoption of the law. As regards this particular law, there is no constitutional basis. She, though, would exist by changing the Constitution. However, we are talking about the current current Constitution of Croatia where there is no constitutional basis for the adoption of this Law. We've heard that in some debates. The second condition, among other things, has more conditions, is the consequences of the adoption of this law. Whether all possible consequences stemming from the adoption of this law in all areas of social and political life are considered, including then liability related to countless laws or leaving for criminal laws and the like. What does that mean when this status changes and if it changes, it changes and let's say it does not comply with the current Croatian Constitution? And the necessary means are the same condition when it is proposed to pass laws. The necessary means to implement such a law. I will only mention one segment of these funds that should be, and that means reviewing, reviewing voter lists in Croatia. What would that mean about funds and the like? So despite all this, I agree in much of what Mr. Mato Arlovic said. So let's open the discussion. We see what opportunities are political, which are realities for involving young people under 18 in active political life and even making proposals, advisory proposals and the like. That's real. We also have to talk about this, and as far as HDZ is concerned, it does not oppose such a preliminary debate from the point of view of all the segments participating or, or the condition, a prior condition for such a comprehensive debate on a political, sociological and any other plan resulting in a possible change in the Constitution and powers that would be less than 18 years old. Not by authority, it may be a harsh expression, but by some means, to see how involved young people in political life would be in a advisory sense. So let's go that way. And not that, with two articles, we start talking about it, so it came to this, about the reception of trainees in Split. So we can do that on every subject, connect it, every topic is connected, and there is no such thing as being representatives and being alive we have the right to speak. So are we going to go so far as to expand so many topics that we're talking about everything and everything because that's something like this, in a way, the basis for a broader view of some kind of problem. Well, that would be absurd. So when I intervened as chair of the session, I had no idea that, to prevent this public debate or the beginning of a public debate or to limit it in some way rather than be politically responsible and not to collect political points on the basis of proposals that are not in line with the Constitution. And then to take advantage of such a single proposal to speak in the widest possible way about everything that this or that authority has failed to do and to bring it down within the framework of the bill. I don't think that's acceptable. The road proposed and explained here by Vice-President Mato Arlovic is a road that we would agree on and that is realistic for opening the issue of the wider opening of issues regarding the participation of younger than 18 years in the political life of Croatia. That's what HDZ's ready for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-22-0.u20808	Thank you very much. You are no longer entitled to any debate or correction of incorrect allegations or violation of the Rules of Procedure. Does the Proposer want a representative? Yeah. Dear Representative Pavlic, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-22-0.u20809	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, let me thank you, first of all, to all of you who have spoken of this law. We are therefore pleased that most speakers today supported the arguments, supported the initiative even though it is clear that the law itself will not get the necessary majority to confirm it, but it is also a pleasure to find out that this law was needed to establish that a debate must be opened on how the possible rights of younger people of 18 years of age have been achieved, and that the debate on the situation of young people in our society has also been opened up, which I think is very much related to each other. As far as voting rights are concerned, we said that this initiative is actually the first step and that in the perspective we actually see younger people than 18 years of age as those who will have both an active and passive right in all elections in the Republic of Croatia. We are asked why shouldn't Croatia be among the first countries to take that step? Unfortunately, Croatia also notes the phenomenon that we stated in our explanation, which is that our electoral body is old. Because of the low turnout of young people to the elections and also because of the extension of the lives of our people, it is precisely the interests of young people themselves that young people are actually sub-represented in units, municipalities, towns and counties, we have heard that we here in the Croatian Parliament cannot boast of a large number of young people who would just represent and protect the interests of young people. As a good example, I would also like to cite the formation of a Croatian pensioner party as a party which is therefore an interesting party that protects the interests of a particular population, i.e. relatively well and succeeds. In the future, therefore, it is still waiting as analogy is the establishment of a Croatian party of young people or something like that, but we must do something because really young people for now, given the problems they have and the difficulties they find in life do not therefore satisfy those who would represent them and who would help them solve their problem.e So it can be solved best just so that the greater number of young people can be able to directly bout, to directly vote for those who will represent them. And also in the perception that they too are active participants in political processes. So to someone today it seems unimaginable, but also centuries ago, it was also unthinkable for some that women would get the right to vote or that the right to hunger would spread to people of other skin colors or other social status. So in Libre, we think that we need to take a step further, and we're anticipating the future, so what we think is going to happen in a few years. And so our position is, as with previous initiatives, to try to do so as soon as possible. Therefore, in view of the position of most clubs, Libra will also launch a change of initiative for the change of Article 40, so in perspective 45. so that it will provide the possibility for young people under 18 to have an active and passive voting right at these levels. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-22-0.u20810	Comrade Pavlic, given this latest proposal that you will launch an initiative to change the Constitution. And what that means from your point of view is that you stay with this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-22-0.u20811	Yeah, we're staying.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-22-0.u20812	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. Third, Proposal for a Law amending Law on the selection of members of the representative bodies of units of local and regional self-government, first reading, Bill No 94. Please get the MPs involved. In accordance with the proposals of the working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: It does not accept the draft law amending the Law on the selection of members of the representative bodies of the units of local and regional self-government proposed by the Club of Representatives of Libra for the reasons set out in the opinion of the Government and the reports of the working bodies. Vote for, against, abstention? Thank you. I'm asking for a result. I find that with 80 votes in favour, five abstentions and 11 against the proposed conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-22-0.u20817	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear ladies and gentlemen. Let me briefly present to you our proposal for a law supplementing the law on value added tax. Therefore, its basic intensity to be tax exemptions in Article 12. The law complemented in the sense that from paying taxes on added value is freed and good for blind and undersighted persons. It is the opinion of LIBRE that the tax policy of each state must be based on both the principles of equality and justice. And special care should be given to the protection and inclusion of non-governmental persons in social life in the best way possible. As Croatia is known to live on about 400,000 people with special needs. Which is about 10% of the total population. Of which, according to available information, about 5 and a half thousand or 1.3% are blind and impaired. Today's medicine, as well as neither modern technique nor the most noble and well-organized endeavors of society, are not able to compensate for the complete damage of the eye and thus the loss of vision. In a way that blind people in life have equal chances. So blindness is one of the most difficult disabilityes. Because there are many specific needs and difficulties such as co-consistency in movement, special letter, few available professions, and others. Also most perceptive experiences precisely in our organism our brain comes through vision. In Croatia, all blind insurance companies of the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance can receive 4 basic aids for free or with minimal participation. The white stick, the watch, Braille's sonic, the quadrilateral tape recorder and Bray's typewriter. It's an electrical writing aid, if it has one. The rest helped, so did the modern - day and expensive, brail lines, brail printers, speech units, screen readers. talkers and things like that, blind people have to get about their own cost. All aids for blind persons are exempt from customs payments but other than those mentioned four basics and VAT. The prices of such aids are very, very large, the cost of the computer ranged from 20 to 80 thousand kuna. One textbook on the braided letter stands several thousand kunas about it will probably be more Mr. Lesar speaking. But what we would like to especially warn this Law is actually the total position of persons with disabilities, in the Republic of Croatia. So which would have been improved by this law. So organizations dealing with people with disabilities warn about the many problems they have. And the biggest problem is the one I would especially warn today about when it comes to employment. I will warn of the fact that, in 2002, the law established a fund for professional rehabilitation and employment of disabled people, but this has not been done until today. And so in this report of the budget that we will have in a few days here in the Parliament we see that this fund is approved for 0,00 kuna. Thus, according to those with disabilities, we will not meet the goals that they themselves have set, set by society. And that's to improve the quality of life of people with disabilities. To allow people with disabilities to get equal chances as healthy people. To ensure that they can participate fully in the life of the community and to ensure that people with disabilities therefore decide on programmes and policies that affect their lives. To a large extent, this division also depends on these aids for which we propose to free them from value added tax on the occasion of imports. Because most of them are import appliances that are not manufactured in Croatia. Now on Saturday, I was at a event that was just organized by a disabled society in Čakovec. Among other things, they also took action to mark cars that bothered disabled people who had been illegally parked on sidewalks. It says here, don't be marked and marked. I hope, therefore, that in support of this law you will choose this here so that you are not marked, that you will give support to this law of ours. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-22-0.u20818	Thank you. Would the representatives of the board like to take the floor? The Committee on Legislatives, Finance and Economy? Thank you. We're going to a club debate. The first is on behalf of the CNS PGS, Mr. Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-22-0.u20819	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, in their explanation, say there are 5,000 in Croatia, about 5,500 blind people who can be directly or indirectly interested in the proposed privilege, when it comes to import aids for the blind. However, in my debate in support of this proposal and the explanation of why the Croatian People's Party Club will support the proposal of colleagues from LIBRE, I will look back on only one smaller group of those blind people in Croatia, which are blind children who attend regular kindergartens, regular primary and secondary schools in Croatia, therefore, who are not isolated from special groups, but integrated into a regular system of education. The process began a few years ago, based on recommendations from experts and on the data I have given extremely good results, and according to my data, such children in Croatia are currently 124. So 124 of them are in the regular system of preschool education, primary schools and secondary schools. They achieve extremely good results, the mahogany is about excellent students who, with these ability to master materials, each of them deals with other things, activities, and I have had the opportunity to meet a girl, a girl who is a completely blind excellent student and is an excellent piano player. Some of them also achieve such significant results as to win three years in the first or second place in the national competitions in Croatian, foreign languages, mathematics, and a young man seems to be now in the first grade of high school, he recently published his first book. Why is this proposal extremely important? Namely, when these children enter a regular system of education, they do not have any supplementary rights under the rules governing primary or secondary education to special assistance they need in their regular education system. A colleague, Pavlic, mentioned that they exercise the right to a white stick, a clock with Braille numbers, or handcuffs, a quadruple tape recorder and even a typewriter on "brailette". But fortunately, the technique is progressing, and even in the last few years in Croatia, textbooks can also be purchased in Braie's letter in notebooks, both for primary and secondary schools, but part of the textbooks are not put on paper but recorded on audio tapes, so that blind children can listen to the same material that we see, we can read. However, in the system of education, buying and equipment, it helped only parents. Since it is technical means that are not textbooks and in that category of free textbooks that are obtained from the social care title, they only come true if they find understanding in social care centres, and these aids subscribe to textbooks. And where does the problem begin? There's a price problem. For example, the book of Geography No. 3 for the 7th grade of elementary school recorded on an audio tape in Croatia at the moment costs 1.360 kuna or a geography textbook No. 4 for the eighth grade of elementary school, that's something cheaper and costs 800 kuna. If, for example, a German-language textbook for the seventh grade of elementary school that is in Braille’s letter, its price is 3.150 kuna. There is also a specially adjusted device for blind children for the purposes of geometric drawing and this drawing device, triangle, sixer, angler costs 720 kuna. A typewriter, therefore, a device, a spike and paper made into a prospectus of 300 kuna, and a simple plastic drawing foil adjusted for their needs, one box of 90 kuna. So if parents wanted to equip a blind child, with textbooks on Braille’s letter in combination with notebooks or audio tapes for one grade of elementary school, they would need at least 18,000 kuna. But there's a technique that's gone a long way, so there's a complete computer with accessories used by blind people, and most simply, it's made up of the computer that we're using, and we're going to see people with the addition of scanners, screen reader, voice unit and Braille printer. So instead of a regular printer, they must also have a Braille printer. In order to complete such a personal computer for the needs of a student at this point at the lowest price in Croatia, 60,000 kunas should be allocated. That's the lowest price you can get. And a screen reader, so-called. How with the voice unit and the Braille printer are exclusively import goods. The manufacturer in Croatia does not have those who decide to do so really have to introduce it. They're free of customs, but that's what VAT is paid for. Of that 124 figure, it is true that they are in kindergartens of 17, in primary schools of 98 and in secondary schools of 13. This personal computer set was set up by blind students, the biggest help for them was to convert the text from the textbook through the computer to speech and print it on Braille's letter, so the reader in his letter that I can only read, so that even homework can be done in a way that they can solve on Braille's letter, using the computer, turn it into a simple printer, and turn it into a text that serves teachers or teachers for control and possible corrections. When there is such a unit of computers, no more textbooks are needed on Braille's letter, because only using a scanner and a Braille printer can turn material out of text every day and print yourself on Braille's letter. If these 98 parents and children in elementary schools and 13 who are in high schools and who had the parental courage and listened to the advice of experts and directed their children blind children to regular schooling, do not deserve special recognitions, that disabled persons in prison in ghettos rather than integrate into the regular system of education, then they should be able to enable them as responsible people in power to buy these aids themselves, at least buy without value added tax as the lowest sign of support for us in the authorities of such parents. I was personally fortunate to have been able to intervene and assist in the acquisition of a piece of such equipment, and at this time I would like to extend my public gratitude to Minister Primorac, that several personal cases of such children's needs were solved and successfully solved, but this is not a systematic solution. This has been from case to case, from possibility to possibility if we make these devices especially for blind children cheaper parents who have to finance them, we will not significantly affect the damage of the state budget, but trust me, we will have a more significant impact on the willingness of parents whose children do not yet go into the regular education system to encourage them. And finally, so far, we've been taught that blind children, after completing primary school, continue high school possibly for the professions of telephone operator or something like that. Their inclusion in the regular system of education with such aids enables them to expand, far wider choice of professions and professions, for example those I know, who have now defined themselves in high school or other secondary schools and have decided to become translators for two languages. Let's make an effort. Let us help them to afford at least 22% of VAT from abroad to buy equipment that does not exist in Croatia, which is not produced and as long as they are not in the regular system of education funding, so let us compromise. That's why our full support for this proposal to a fellow Libre. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-22-0.u20820	Thank you. On behalf of the IDS Club, the respected representative of Dorotea Pesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-22-0.u20821	Dear Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Here is the proposal for a law supplementing the Value Added Tax Act, and of course it concerns VAT exemption for aid to blind people. The fact is that in Croatia all blind insurance companies can get the four basic aids we heard, the white stick, the watch, the tape recorder and the typewriter for free or with minimal participation. But we in the IDS think that in the 21st century it's not enough anymore, modern aids as we've heard, special screen readers, thermals, printers have to get and pay, blind people have to be on their own. We have to say that all aids for the blind are customs-free and it would really be good for the blind to be released and the VAT. Even more so, that blind people with such specialized equipment are schooled and, of course, make it easier for them to work. In the IDS, we even think that maybe this Article 1 paragraph 4 should, where only imports of the blind person are proposed to free the VAT. We believe that imports and traffic should be freed from VAT by such aids. So if they're also buying in our stores to be released from VAT, I think we're going to give an amendment to that article as IDS. We have really heard a lot about schooling children with these special needs, but when we look at what it's worth to them and that they're schooling and integrating when today-to-morrow jobs won't get, because we know that employment is one of the biggest problems that blind people have, and I think we're going to have to deal with this problem seriously. Because of course blindness is a factor that determines a specific route of employment, a special way of material protection with the aim of removing all negative effects of blindness so that certain work and life activities can be performed. I have spoken with the Association of the Blind Primorsko-Gorski County and say it should be pointed out as the biggest issue of hiring young blind people who, after schooling and rehab, need to find an appropriate job. Let us remember a system of social ownership where, with all difficulties, all the blind people have been able to be hired, and since the time of democratic change, the privatisation, the choking of large companies and the shut-down of large companies, we are faced with difficulties in hiring any blind person. I have to tell you that in 14 years, only two blind people's employment has been realised. Today we have about 30 employees of the blind, but when they retire to their workplace, they certainly won't be able to hire some new blind person. As regards the argument that the law in question is not in line with the principles of VAT taxation, as set out in the sixth Guideline of the European Union, I would like to know whether we must respect the European Union's guidelines for certain things and not some. Here is the last example we have of not agreeing with the 0.5 alcohol spill in the blood, but for the blind, we must respect the principles of the European Union that they must pay VAT on their aids. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-22-0.u20822	Thank you. It is next on behalf of the SDP Club, the respected representative, Vice-President of the House, Mato Arlovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-22-0.u20823	Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. It appears that the proposal for a law supplementing the Tax Act on additional value proposed by the Club of Representatives of LIBRE came at exactly the right time. It could be said that by discussing the principles and details of this law, we are slowly entering into the debate of the announced and expected tax reform. We of the SDP Representatives Club must remind us that already in the debate and voting on the trust of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has pointed out that a reform of the tax system will be opened and that in this respect the Government will, as I quote, "the government will prepare an effective system of supervision and collection of state budget revenues, a stimulating tax system, will start production and create new jobs and increase the purchasing power of citizens" etc. etc. Which we agree with, and if such tax reform comes, we will support it. Unfortunately, however, in addition to this proposal, the law at the same time discusses what is public, which is hidden in some of the restrictions relating to tax reform and, in addition to the concrete possible solution of this VAT Act, it is actually related to a memorandum signed with the international monetary fund, which I quote among other things: "We are considering a number of changes aimed at reducing the improvement of incentives, expanding the base and support for employees, low incomes, for example the elimination of a certain number of exemptions from personal income taxes, reducing some tax rates, simplifying the taxation of reinvested profits and reducing the number of goods subject to 0 rates of VAT.". Therefore, as soon as we look at this aspect, it seems that this proposal for a law that the libRE colleagues have implemented is practically contrary to what has been accepted on behalf of the Republic of Croatia with the International Monetary Fund and that it is difficult to discuss the extension of the zero rates to which VAT will be applied, the goods to which a zero VAT rate will be applied, because here is actually going to be abolished at the already existing ones. And in such a situation, of course, those issues that are extremely important should be considered, first of all, to remember what products the zero rate applies to today. These are, as we know, bread, milk, books, medicines, aids for disabled persons, this is a question of scientific journals and, of course, since September 2001, among other things, the issue of organised stay of tourists and foreigners. It should also be recalled that the European Union guidelines for harmonisation of VAT rates speak of the fact that the lowest VAT rate can be 15%, the highest is not prescribed, and also says that they can be introduced inter-steps, which we do not have in the Republic of Croatia, and that among the rates there could be no lower rate and something else that can be kept zero rates if they were prescribed by the law on value added tax in 1991. I would like to remind my esteemed colleagues and colleagues on behalf of the SDP representative club that we before the Value Tax Act had the Act on Transport of Products and Services, and that this law on Product Transport and Services was one set of products and among them, some now covered by a zero rate of value tax, was covered by a zero rate and was not applied accordingly, we in a negotiating position in relation to the European Union can even defend the position with a zero rate. What is perfectly clear is that we cannot talk about the stimulating role of the tax system as such, nor the Tax Act on additional value if at the same time we do not have a compatible tax system with an environment surrounding us in the economic system and we allow us, in fact, our economic branches and activities, for example, a competitive position in agriculture and tourism, certain services, etc., such an interface if it is present in neighbouring countries, Austria, Hungary or I do not know Italy, Spain, the tourism countries, and so it is clear that the possibility of being introduced between us and ourselves must be discussed. What is actually happening now is we simply ignore the fact that in 25 European Union countries 22 have an interrelationship and we forget that more than 50% of the European Union's 25 countries have more than 50% of the zero rate, or if you want to know exactly 13 has a zero rate. And we need to get close to that environment, simultaneously get a tax system that will have a stimulating... Now, with all this, we are ahead of negotiations with the European Union, i.e. first of all, before the creation of an economic elaborate on the accession of the European Union and then later in negotiations in which, among other things, some announcements that we announced when we took over the Avis, about the possible review of the abolition of existing zero rates, in fact, that we need to do something. But removing zero rates in itself implies opening up a debate in the Croatian Parliament on the introduction of rates and in this context it is not possible to discuss and reject the proposed zero rate proposals and that, before that, through tax reform, we have not found an adequate position not only for our producers but also for our consumers with the principles of constitutional law of equal and fair tax burden on the one hand, citizens and, on the other hand, relatively their opportunities to participate in the financing of public needs, in fact, that we have not found such a position that we have not solved this issue. And we are facing a very serious debate on these reforms. At the same time, it must be said that it is impossible to prepare for the entry into the European Union and to discuss the European Union about the possible movement of rates on certain products and services in our tax system, and even when we have committed ourselves to the International Monetary Fund and this to the International Monetary Fund, we did not ask for this ourselves, so in such a situation that we do not worry about transitional sickness before that, and the transitional period simply imposes as a social necessity in view of the structure of the Croatian population that we still have certain products and services as burdened with zero rates. Look, you're discussing that 3% of the rich will be helped more than the poor if the poor pay zero rate doesn't pay on bread and milk, they won't actually pay for that argument, it's a false economic argument because it's very important for the poor to have such savings and such an opportunity to... create you for something else. The same thing is with disabled aid that colleagues from LIBRE propose to also be freed and in fact it is about importing goods for blind and impaired persons who are considered good for personal use according to customs regulations. Moreover, as already covered by the Tax Act, that disability aids should not be taxed, that freed tax payments on additional value is the question of why this aid has been paid for an additional value so far, because the regulation extended or actually constrained what Parliament wanted. By implementing the Tax Act on Additional Value, this issue is settled, so it is paid. And not just this esteemed colleague and colleague among other things one of the very important aids for one category of our disabled like deaf and deaf people is, say, a fax machine. He can't hear but can read a whole series of messages and communication can do and do with his environment and with his family at the end of the job, etc., if he has a fax machine, so why don't we treat it as a disabled aid, and according to the current regulation we don't release as a tax on extra value and if we can't, and if the rule is off then I join my colleagues on behalf of our club to support their bill's proposal to free all aids that are related to blind and undersighted persons and, of course, to be further expanded and with these aids that can be on the welfare of deaf and deaf persons. But that's not enough. It is also necessary to ensure that humanitarian aid in Croatia, which humanitarian organisations such as Caritas and the Red Cross, among other things, are organised on national and religious holidays, not to support themselves with value added tax, such as the Croatian Red Cross for Christmas and New Year, has distributed over 50,000 packages to our citizens who have collected humanitarian aid to collect food, medicines among other things for hygiene to meet our citizens, to share this with our citizens so that after that humanitarian aid for which our Ministry of Finance bought goods cut the value added tax and when they made an appeal to ask them to be free of course that such a complaint is being refused and the question of who is being taken and who is being helped. In this regard, we must have the will and the will. Furthermore, we must consider clearly. It is impossible and it is not good for Croatian associations, mostly humanitarian but also for all others to pay value added tax to humanitarian aid from outside associations. You have a whole range of offers, different civil associations from the countries of our environment but also from the European Union who want to help, related associations dealing with the protection of human rights and freedoms, social rights of citizens, etc., but they tell you how to send you goods when we're still going to get a bill that you have to pay for humanitarian aid. From development, I say meeting social needs to the development of culture, art and a whole series of other activities... The same thing we must once shed light on one issue that is turning into a political issue, it is a matter of TV subscription. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What's a TV subscription? If TV subscription is the price of Croatian TV service for the program that broadcasts to us, then I agree that the value added to it is paid. But then it can't be that priced. It is obvious that far away it is then too little established as a TV subscription and it is quite certain that it is not the price of the Croatian TV programme, but that it is actually a paratax, or a pair of taxes, and that in such a situation it is also necessary in this proposal for a second reading and it is proposed to exempt the value added tax. And, of course, we must also say that once this proposal is already opened, the debate on interdependences should be extended until the second reading. If nothing but the minimum that should be covered is the issue of solving socially sensitive categories, it is a question of youth and children. Suffering for our children needs, related to education and education, should simply be introduced at a rate. In time, the SDP's club proposed that it be a 12% rate, could be less than 12% and less than 12%. We also believe that certain economic activities and branches that are in a difficult situation or which can be initial... which will withdraw the overall development of the economy in the Republic of Croatia, such as tourism and agriculture on the other side and the sectoral food industry, should also be given an inter-step. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We have proposed 12% and now we believe that this rate should be even lower, and the more it has shown in time that the higher income from the additional value tax, which otherwise makes up more than one third of the total tax revenues and contributions to the Republic of Croatia in budgetary income, actually, nothing will happen but only extends public spending and will not reduce anything in this context. And this is how we will give exactly what this government wanted, offering the principle concept of our own programme, which is a development component that should be worn by both the tax system and on the one hand, and on the other hand, we will respect our own fundamental principle that we have laid down in the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, that each should contribute to the financing of public needs, and not to the same degree, but to its own, equality must be evident in relation to the possibility, the real possibility of man and citizen, that is, with physical and legal persons, contributing to the financing of public needs. For these reasons, we will support this Bill proposal, and at the same time we point out that we have this whole series of remarks on the bill because we believe that we need to extend it in terms of coverage and deepen by content related to the proposed changes and complement not only the introduction of additional inter-steps in the transitional period, the multi-stage on certain goods and services that need to be taxed but also that at this stage, we are already starting to introduce gradual steps that will initiate a stimulating role and tax on additional value in the development of the economy, and then opening up the possibility through redundancies of the economy to actually reduce and the price of work and all the rest by opening up new jobs and by hiring people, thus increasing the national gross product actually in relation to the public debt needs to reduce our deficits and not to suck out wealth and obtaining it from the public debt because we do not always pay very much to the first of the law, but to the first of the law of the law of the law that we have to the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-22-0.u20824	Thank you very much. I thank Vice President Dom Arlovic. The word has a respected representative, Gordan Jandrokovic, on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Union.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-22-0.u20825	Dear Mr. Vice President, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs. The Croatian Democratic Community Representatives' Club took special note of the proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Value Added Taxation of the Proposer of the Club of Representatives of the LIBRA. It is a small but extremely important supplement that should regulate the exemption from the value added tax of aid for blind and impaired persons. Thus, by supplementing the Law, he wants to help blind and undersighted persons, as the promoter himself cites one of the most difficult disabilityes. There is no doubt that the task and duty of the entire society is to help all persons with special needs, so that despite their specific difficulties, they feel well integrated in society and have a chance at a better quality of life. So, about helping people with special needs there is no dilemma, it is necessary and the task is all of us. The question, however, is whether the bill explained by the Club of Representatives of the Libre is the best solution. According to the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community, it is not. It is our opinion that by supplementing the law on value added tax, this issue will not and cannot be fully resolved. In this regard, I would particularly like to emphasise that the adoption of this Law would violate the principle of equality and justice mentioned by the Proposer in his explanation. Although blindness is extremely difficult to get rid of value added tax only for aids for blind and impaired persons, other persons with special needs would be brought into an unequal position. The Government of the Republic of Croatia states in its explanation all tax exemptions and reliefs for disabled persons, so I will quote: "In the context of the tax system but outside the value added tax system, several exemptions are prescribed for disabled people. In accordance with the provisions of the Income Tax Act, persons with disabilities are subject to special regulations other than wages and pensions do not consider incomes as well as receipts made by those persons on the basis of donations for medical needs in which the procurement of orthopentical aids is included. Foreign taxpayers shall be recognised as a personal deduction in the determination of income tax and the costs of obtaining orthopentical aid in the Republic of Croatia and up to 12 thousand kuna annually provided that these expenditures are not paid out of basic supplementary or private health insurance and are not financed from the donations obtained as well as an increased personal deduction for the taxpayer, each dependent member of the family and each child if they are persons with disabilities. In addition, the Republic of Croatia shall, within the framework of social and health protection, ensure that persons with disabilities are provided with orthoptic and other assistance free of charge or with payment of minimum participation. In contrast to this proposal for a law with the European Union guidelines on the principles of value added tax, counterpart Arlovic also spoke on behalf of the SDP Club. Therefore, concern for people with special needs is a concern for all of us but because of these shortcomings, the proposal for a law supplementing the law on value added tax of the Club of Representatives of the Libre, the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community supports the position of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and will not support that draft law.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-22-0.u20826	I thank the esteemed representative Jandrokovic. Correction of the incorrect allegations, Vice-President Doma Arlovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-22-0.u20827	On behalf of the Club, I was talking about the European Union guidelines allowing for the possibility of keeping zero rates if the additional value tax prescribed it was until 1991. I also recalled that until then, we had, instead, the Law on Transport of Products and Services, which mates the law in relation to transport, the tax on additional value, and in which these services and these goods were also released, or prescribed for them a zero rate on the tax on, on the sales of products and services including children's food, children's aids and children's clothing and for... learning in schools. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] So there is a possibility, and that is what I said on behalf of the Club, that in negotiations with the European Community, we are actually trying to seek such an opportunity as the other countries in the European Union's environment, to keep some at a zero rate in order to be compatible with them when we are in the European Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-22-0.u20828	Thank you. On behalf of the Libre Club, distinguished representative William Herman. This is what we've concluded with the club debate. We're moving on to an individual debate. It's the honorary representative of Stazic's turn.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-22-0.u20829	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Every disability is difficult. Blindness may be the hardest. I, speaking of this bill of law, must also speak of the government's opinion on this bill. And speaking of the government's opinion, I'm also going to have to talk about logic. About common sense. I don't know if I'm going to get away from it and I don't know if when I talk about it, the government will be taken away because it's obvious that there are double criteria in this House. It is obvious that the representatives, as well as the respected Mr Kovacevic, were not taken from the table even though he spoke about both HSP and President Tudjman and the age of HSP and SDP voters, which had nothing to do with the law. It is obvious that the word was not taken away by the vice president of the home of Mr. Bebić who,
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-22-0.u20830	Dear Representative Stazic, I ask you to stick to the subject. I have to react right now. I'm asking you to stick to the subject so he doesn't give you a warning and take away your word. You'll be the first to be warned if I give. I'm asking you to stick to the subject and it's not, and it's not a theme when someone's word is taken away.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-22-0.u20831	Why do I say I'm going to have to talk about logic or common sense? Government, watch out four aids have been released when it comes to blind people. VAT payments have been released. It's a white stick, a brail clock, a tape recorder and a typewriter. And the government says it would be contrary to the European Union's sixth guidance if they added a fifth aid. So freeing four aids is not contrary to European Union guidelines, but this list of 4 added 5 would be contrary to European Union guidelines. It doesn't make any sense. It's completely illogical, it's indefensible. But I'm not surprised by the government's opinion. As far as I'm concerned, it's completely expected. The only thing I think is that I don't think it's necessary to draw on the guidelines of the European Union, but to tell the truth. And what's the truth? The truth about this issue as far as these governments are concerned is contained in the memorandum of monetary policy. It says what the government thinks about the zero VAT rate. And what about that zero rate he's up to? Well, it's written there that he intends to cancel for bread and milk, for implants, for orthopaedic aids. That's what the government thinks. And it would be quite fair if she had given an opinion on this bill and said, "No, the government doesn't accept it." He doesn't accept this proposal from Libra because we're not going to expand the list, we're going to cut it down, we're going to abolish it. No VAT release for nothing. You will also pay Croatian citizens more expensive bread and milk. The invalids will pay for the help more expensive. You're damn right you are. That's what the government intends to do. That's what she wrote about her intention to do. That is what they will do, and now here in the opinion it is drawn to the guidelines of the European Union. As someone observed very funnyly, it was not a problem for the European Union when it introduced 0.0. This is not in the European Union guidelines. On the contrary. So exactly the opposite of Libra's intention. Exactly the opposite of what all opposition clubs support, which is this bill. The government is thinking of abolishing the VAT rate zero. This is therefore not about the European Union guidelines. This is about whether we want to or not to help blind people. That's all. I listened very carefully to what Mr. Jandrokovic said on behalf of the HDZ Club and I can say that I remained shocked, startled. It's the height of cynicism. Mr. Jandrokovic says: Let us not help the blind because this would lead them into an unequal position with the other disabled. So let's not bring this in just for the blind because then what about the others. By voting on this proposal, we will not vote politically. You know, we're not gonna be SDPs and HDZs here. HSPs or liberals. We're going to vote here as human people or as inhuman people. Because this is about whether those whose life is so hard can at least make it a little easier. We can't get their sight back by any law. But we can help them blind as easily as possible. So if those four other aids that Libra is proposing here, which could get us a cheaper life can make life at least a little easier, at least a little bit, why don't we do that? Why don't we do it? You know, it's not enough on White Stick Day to go to associations and take pictures with blind people, which is what the vice president of the government does on a regular basis. That's not enough. This, by voting on this bill, we're going to show what we think of blind people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-22-0.u20832	I would like to thank the esteemed representative, Stazic. Here you have not received any warning or word taken from you. Correction of the incorrect quote Jandroković.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-22-0.u20833	Dear Mr Vice President, I did not say let's not help the blind because such a thing would be really terrible, I have already pointed out that the amendments to the VAT Act are not the best solution and that in this way, I will now quote correctly, so that the principle of equality and justice, which, in my argument, is also mentioned by the promoter, would be violated. So I think this is about a malicious interpretation that has not been applied and I don't think such things deserve a place in the Croatian Parliament at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-22-0.u20834	Thank you. It is up to the honourable representative Mato Arlovic, vice president of the house. He's not in the assembly. He's losing his word. It is up to the esteemed representative Ivan Vukic. SDP-HDZ 1:1. He's losing his word. Dear Representative Cain. Cain pulls. The Honorable Petty Officer, Dragica Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-22-0.u20835	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. At the beginning of my brief presentation, I will say that I will support this proposal for the law of my colleagues from LIBRA. Where they propose the exemption of the value added tax on imports of goods for blind and impaired persons. Which, according to customs regulations, are considered to be good for personal use. Namely, our VAT law has three actually options, a general rate of 22% has a zero rate for several products and there are 17 cases of release and this would be 18 cases when imports of goods were released from VAT payments. As a society, we have an obligation to help disabled people, in a way that they socialize, and to create conditions and opportunities for them to use the remains of their working ability to enable them to work. This can also be done through an impeccable policy, and through the possibility of employment. In the first instance, the state should give an advantage in a way that such persons are employed in state institutions and that their employment is stimulated by private persons or companies. In this way, they would feel useful, and in some ways, their lives would be easier. I personally know a girl who attends a school with a healthy child who is an excellent student, and who really doesn't experience blindness as her handicap, but wants to participate equally in education. The progress of technology and technology can significantly shift into the right of this population, and we as a society are obliged to provide them under as favourable conditions as possible so that they can obtain such aids. Among other things, it was also helpful for the blind who are listed here. For which all obligations are now paid, so from Braille's lines, Braille's printers, voice units, readers, thermometer screens, tomorrow maybe I'll say that, by the progress of technology, there's something else. In particular, it is important for young people who are now in the education system to be enabled to participate in the learning and knowledge world as equal as possible. And if we now see why the government does not accept or say that the Parliament should vote for this bill, then it is not actually surprising. This opinion was written on 19 June, 13 July, sent a letter to the International Monetary Fund where it is substantially changed, announcing a significant change in the tax system, including in the VAT system, but also in the context of income tax and value added tax. Income tax. In the first part, the Government calls for a 6-way European Union, where it says that zero rates could not be applied or a reduced rate applied to Europe in the European countries, which applies to imports of goods and to deliveries abroad. He says that Croatia could not change that regulation during this period when there is a candidate for accession to the European Union. Just a while ago, when we were just discussing the amendment bill and the supplementation of the PDV law that my club proposed, it was said that I couldn't even introduce between rates, zero rates, and so on. But here we are in the future, we must have one rate, which is incorrect. Most European countries and most European Union countries also have a zero rate and a cross-referencing rate. Indeed, we should see now whether Croatia needs to abolish zero rates in this period, to introduce one step, or a reduced rate for a certain number of productions and services. Further essays show that such individuals have the option of deducting from the tax on income because they are recognised for the purchase of orthopaedic aids, up to 12 thousand kuna. The government in the memorandum announces that it will also examine many of the benefits of calculating income tax, and this will also be questioned. On the other hand, a large proportion of people with disabilities are not in a working relationship, so they do not earn income, so they cannot benefit from such benefits for income tax. It is said in the Government's view that in the case of these persons a personal deduction can be used for the taxpayer, for his dependent family member and for every child if they are disabled. However, this is so within the law, however, in the income tax rule, it has been suspended in such a way as to introduce certain censors so that a parent cannot use for a disabled child a total deduction, i.e. only to the level of certain incomes. So all of what I said actually means that we don't want to look at this population in a way that they have to be socially useful. That they are not only dealt with through social problems, but really needed to be enabled by them in such a way that they can use the rest of their working ability and be useful members of this society. That's why we at the club and I will personally vote for this proposal from the club Libre. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-22-0.u20836	Thank you. It is up to the honourable representative, Zvonimir Mršić. He's not in the assembly. He's losing his right to debate. And the last respected representative of Zeljko Kurtov.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-22-0.u20837	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. I've got a document here that I'm going to try to sketch which group as many people as there are. The Homeland War invalids in 75 have an income of 3824 kuna Civil Victims of War 202 men 3320 kuna. Invalids of the work of 3832 men 775 kuna. Civil disabled social care 1509 people 400 kuna. The social care of 162 people is 280 kuna. It's a group of people we're talking about here. I agree if the Croatian government thinks it can handle it in another way. A blind person question that I think is also a duty to resolve. That this way is not the most appropriate. I think it's necessary to do something about it, and this proposal was right in that sense. If the Government rejects this proposal on VAT, i.e. Liberation in order to otherwise, i.e. Repayments for 50% of the disabled are now required by the average personal income in the Republic of Croatia, and for the public to know that in the former state there was 65% of the average personal income for disabled people. That's why I think we all need to ask ourselves together whether we reject this law with the intention of helping blind people in a different way, better quality, then we're all for it and we're gonna wait for the government's proposal or we're gonna go with a new government proposal that goes that way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-22-0.u20838	Thank you. Does the Proposer want a closing statement? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-22-0.u20839	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, allow us just a few more words to try to clarify a few questions that have been raised during the debate on this law. So we stand behind this law, and we also support those who have spoken, so other aids should be extended to release from VAT. So why, at this point, we're behind the proposal to release, so from paying the VAT just for the proposed aids. So precisely because we stated, so in the explanation that blindness and lack of visibility is one of the most difficult disability, but also because of the fact that most of them are, we could say 100% aids that use blind and blind people right out of imports. So our companies simply are not currently able to produce or not produce such aids, they can only be imported on the side. Here it has been said, therefore, about the unfavourable position of disabled persons here in the Republic of Croatia which we can link with their, therefore, employment, so their one biggest goals of these impaired, blind persons, disabled persons, persons with disabilities, that on the contrary, they should be as little on the burden of their family and their community, and in order to achieve this, they must be trained. In this system and education, therefore, education and work training is unfortunately not possible, so this would be one of the proposals so that they can live and communicate as much as possible. We have heard before, therefore, that the prices of these aids have been extremely high. One computer, therefore with a voice unit, cannot be obtained for less than 20,000 kuna, which I think is a very large bite for our average citizen, and let alone not yet be for, therefore, our citizen who is with difficulty, and we know what that means, it usually has repercusions to his social status. The additions were also mentioned here, so the incomes that these persons have from the state, which are too low simply, and those rights that these persons have under the law are not in office. Let me just remind you once again that it's for example. On 22 November 2002, the Croatian Parliament adopted the Law on Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities, that, in 2003, the government regulation established the Professional Rehabilitation Fund which would therefore deal with the team, we could say, with education and education, the most important issue for those persons. So it's a job. Unfortunately, this Fund has not functioned until today, and neither has this Government in the implementation of the budget, i.e. this year did not separate the kuna, therefore for the formation and functioning of this Fund, which, therefore, would facilitate the life and work of persons with disabilities and disabilities and would, in that way, be less on the burden of the state and their families. I hope, then, that you will all uphold this law. This law therefore concerns a narrow, small population of our citizens who are currently in need of our help, and this law goes in this direction, so that the sooner and to the greater extent, the more they are left alone. Thank you very much, and we're counting on your support.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-22-0.u20840	Thank you. With this, we've exhausted the debate on this agenda point. The vote will be later.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-22-0.u20841	Keep going. Proposal for a law supplementing the value added tax law. First reading of Bill No. 122, the debate is closed. Please sign in. Here you go, fellow Pavlic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-22-0.u20842	On behalf of the Libre Club, I would therefore like to ask that the vote be voted by hand in relation to these laws. Since this law is sensitive, it is touched by a group that should be helped, so I ask that by raising our hands we make a statement about this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-22-0.u20843	May I have your attention, please? Please! According to Article 238a. Paragraphs 1, 2, 3, 4, 5. 6th I read this earlier at the request of the representative of the Club of Representatives will hold a vote by raising hands. Please. So on this proposal, the law supplementing the tax law, we will vote the added value by hand-to-hand. That's the conclusion. All right. I'm voting on the next conclusion. The proposal for a law supplementing the value added tax law proposed by the Club of Representatives of the LIBRA for the reasons set out in the opinion of the Government and the reports of the working bodies shall not be accepted. Who's in favour of this proposal's conclusion? And why are you throwing and creating an atmosphere where you can't work normally? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Restraint? I find that 74 and 23 MPs voted for the conclusion. Therefore, with 74 MPs, the proposed conclusion was reached.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-22-0.u20844	We move to the next item of the agenda - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on ownership and other real rights - Proposer of the Club of Representatives of the HSP, first reading of P.Z. No. You received 110 of the proposal by mail. In the case of the adoption of this law, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply, Articles 144 to 150. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system, the economy, development and renewal, the Committee on Justice and the Committee on Spatial Planning and Environmental Protection. You received the reports at the session. The Government of the Republic of Croatia delivered an opinion. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Dear Representative Tadic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-22-0.u20845	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Our Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Property and Other Real Rights comes to this parliamentary debate at the time of the frequent articles in the press on the faster sale of real estate on the Croatian Adriatic, mainly on the sale of real estate to foreign customers. Houses are being sold, properties are being sold, but what is particularly interesting and what has prompted us in HSP to go to this amendment of the law are announcements about the sale of entire islands. So far announcements or already realised, the sale of Croatian islands, the island of Smokvica near Primosten, and two islands in front of Medulin, have caused a lot of media and public attention. We believe that it is definitely a trend that deserves a proper reaction in the form of legislation. We warned about this problem a few years ago and then, as we now hold to sell out the island, sell out Croatian heritage and Croatian identity. We believe that Croatia, which is known as the land of thousands of islands, which has numerous inhabited islands, has its own island population, which has 718 islands and 389 rocks, as a country that advertises as a country with thousands of islands, simply has to do something to legally regulate the possibility of selling complete islands. Here we can discuss the reasons for these sudden sales of the entire islands, which are the reasons for the sudden interest of foreigners in buying the island in the Croatian part of the Adriatic. It's probably about the lack of property of the islands themselves, trying to get rid of real estate on the island from one side of the burden that can hang them in the form of taxes on unused properties that we believe to have been a complete failure at least when the islander is concerned, and on the other hand, they want to improve their standard of living. So with the existing tax system, the islander is actually being punished because their ancestors were working and saving, and today they can't pay real estate tax. On the other hand, if the man on the island wants to get into any business, credit for starting a job or for adapting the house is extremely expensive and people do it in the simplest way, and as a rescue solution, there is a sale of real estate, i.e. the sale of entire islands. The sale of the island to foreigners is formally in line with the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. The agreement also adopted a joint statement on Article 60, which will one day fully liberalise our real estate market for foreigners. However, the Danish are such an option, hence the completely liberal purchase of real estate by foreigners who do not have residence in Denmark, the Danish have completely rejected such a possibility at the referendum. We believe that Croatia must also very clearly regulate this. It is often said that the prices offered are significant and that these prices are actually a cause. According to our knowledge, the average land price in all previous sales of complete islands was less than 10 euros per metre square. So it's actually about land prices, given what islands are and what locality they're talking about. There, of course, also in the parliamentary committees, and I especially thank the Committee on Environmental Protection and Spatial Planning, or the Committee on Economy, the Committee on Legislatives, which implemented the content of the debate, also mentioned the comparison of the Adriatic islands and their prices with the prices at which islands can be purchased, i.e. to buy islands in the Caribbean. However, if it is for customers from Europe, and it is the most in Croatia, it is crystal clear that islands in the Adriatic are a far more acceptable choice than islands in the Caribbean. Why is it such a yagma? Simply because real estate prices are growing, the standard of citizens is generally proportionate to the price they demand for that field, for that island and it is clear that in four, five years and the property will cost several times more when the Croatian standard is increasingly equal with the standard of the European Union countries. According to Dalmatia and elsewhere in the Adriatic, it is therefore an increasing number of real estate hunters who want to buy for a handful of euros now what they will sell after Croatia enters the Union five times more expensive, perhaps more, and especially islands. So the real estate agencies daily receive 50 questions from natural or legal persons interested in buying the entire island on the Adriatic, and among them there are often individuals and groups with suspicious capital that would be placed there. Most often it is said that wealthy foreign owners will attract tourists to that part of the Adriatic if they buy the island. First of all, however, it is obvious that we are not buying islands with some worldly sounding names, but persons who are completely insignificant in their own countries. It is the same with most of the properties sold in Croatia under the blessing of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. We also believe that any incentive and any justification for selling the island to rich foreigners who will attract many tourists to us, the most common snobberism. We also believe in HSP that each of these investments, each of these purchases of the island, is the first step to the complete devastation of that pearl of the Adriatic, because none of these customers choose to buy the island because they would walk there in the untouched nature but decide to buy these small islands in the first order so that they could be built, and knowing how weak the dam from the construction of megalomanic and totally unacceptable buildings on the islands will be, crystal clear that on one side of the local self-government, they will be very easy to close their eyes on the construction, especially the violation of the maritime goods. If this does not end consistently and resolutely, we will turn our coast and our islands into the Adriatic version of Ibiza, where the Germans with concrete completely destroyed that Spanish island pearl. In this regard, the HSP thus offers two legal opportunities by intervening in one single article of the Law on Property and other real rights which normally regulate all procedures in real estate trade. We therefore believe that this does not change the Law on Islands, but that the essential Law on Property and other real rights governing the trade in real estate, not the Law on Islands, as announced by the government representatives. In addition, after we announced in HSP that we are going with this project into the parliamentary procedure, there were frequent press releases by the government's representatives, that there was a government that was about to make its own law that would regulate it. However, until today’s day of the Government’s Law amending the Law on Islands or amending the Law on Property or already concerning the same matter, this government law is not yet in the procedure. Independently, the Government gives its opinion on our law, which, as usual, concludes that the HSP proposal is justified and necessary, but that they will soon come out with their bill. We consider ladies and gentlemen that there is no reason for any difficulty, that this problem is the easiest thing to do with just this kind of intervention through the two models we offer. On the one hand, whenever it comes to the purchase of more than 25% of the territory of an island, of course, excluding maritime well-being, when it comes to the purchase of more than 25% of any island, it is necessary to offer the state the right to buy first. The State then, with the help of an authorised assessor, determines what is the market price and appears as the first buyer in the procedure, as the first possible buyer. It does not mean that the state will indeed buy the island, but the state will at least have insight into who is selling, selling and who it means to sell. At least you get an insight into this whole process. A similar procedure is already in force in the Law on the Protection of Cultural Goods where the state is also in a position to have the right to first purchase. If islands are one of our most important natural goods, then we must protect them in the same way that we protect cultural goods. Therefore, regardless of the outcome of state purchases, this is the way in which the price of sales and customer's intent is obtained, and it appears as a first buyer, and we repeat that, with the help of the authorised appraiser, it offers that buyer a figure equal to the market value. We claim that these figures will not be incomprehensiblely high simply because all the transactions that have occurred so far and the prices that have been questioned have always been at a level of 10 euros per metre square metre. The second option is the expropriation of real estate on the island or complete islands or rocks. We believe that regardless of what the law of the first state applies to all islands if more than a quarter of the island's territory is leased that there are some islands that should in no way be sold to a foreign person, physically or legally. It is therefore about islands that are part of nature parks, which are part of national parks, about islands that are key to maritime transport because they are on Lanterne and are located on important roadways such as... between Brac and Solta, but also islands that define the starting line for determining the Croatian territorial sea, such as Palagrež or Apple. In this case, this Law prevents any foreign acquisition of ownership on the team for Croatia's strategically important islands. It is understood that the Ministry of the Sea, Tourism, Development and Transport will taxfully state by its rules which islands are concerned, which in no way do I repeat either because they are part of a national park or a nature park, either because they are important for Croatia for the waterways because they define the starting line of the territorial sea, which islands will be excluded from all possible transactions. With these two very simple interventions taking into account that limited resources will be needed to achieve the right of the right of the state, HSP wants to stop the existing stampede in the purchase of Croatian islands. We invite all clubs to support our bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-22-0.u20846	I thank the honourable representative, Tadic. On behalf of the HNS PGS Club, the respected representative, Srecko Ferenčak.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-22-0.u20847	Dear Mr. Vice President, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs. In its explanation, the promoter points out that Croatian islands are a hit on the real estate market and are being bought to build residential or weekend facilities, which surely leads to the devastation of space. Furthermore, the Proposer proposes the right to buy the country first in cases where more than 25% of the island is sold. The proposal also provides for a ban on the acquisition of ownership of islands and hills in the territorial sea of the Republic of Croatia for which there is a special interest. The applicant further states that these amendments to the Law would prevent further devastation of the island and protect strategic state interests. I am sure that it is clear to all of us that we all agree that the Croatian islands are invaluable treasure and that we must take care of their protection and the interests of the state and that the promoter was certainly guided by this principle when this proposal was working. We believe that the proposer's intention is certainly good, but we fear that the proposed amendments and the addition of the Law will not be able to achieve the imagined goal, but this proposal should experience some changes and additions, and then it could be supported. It is clear to everyone when you think about it a little bit... paragraph 2 of the proposed changes do not ensure effective protection of the uncontrollable availability of islands because the right of first purchase can be avoided in a way that the island purchases in areas less than 25% of the surface and then this legal provision makes no sense and is not effective not to protect the island from selling it into five parts and has solved the problem. So that should be complemented and changed in some other way. Furthermore, in paragraph 4, which is a new nationalisation, a mistake has been made because instead of the word "legal right", it should stand "rightly for compensation" because the owner whose right of ownership has ceased under the law, because the owner whose right of ownership has ceased under the law is compensated according to the rules of authority, so this should be changed. These are formal proposals to amend this Act, however, a constitutional ban on real estate traffic is in question, as this limits the right of ownership of each individual and owner in the Republic of Croatia. It's not possible among other things you can just quiet down a little if I can talk. This is not possible, among other things, in order to bring Croatia closer to the European Union and the need to bring Croatian legislation into line with EU legislation. In addition, there is inconsistency here in terms of protecting the island itself, why not our other national parks, so we could add that, so our rivers, lakes, forests, that means protecting all our national parks in such a way. Furthermore, it should be pointed out that the implementation of this Act should provide 100m euros from the state budget and I think it would be correct that any one who gives the proposal for a law requiring certain resources to and the proposal in which these funds would be provided and how to explain to our taxpayers where we will take these 100m euros. Furthermore, through this proposal of the law, there is an idea of the danger that some external and internal enemies will purchase all of our islands and that islands will be protected in a way that goes from private ownership to state property. As if the state is the most efficient entrepreneur and owner, we all know from experience and life that it is not true, every day we make sure that every private person takes better care of his own property than the state does. And what to do in this situation in order not to violate the views of the islands and how the Croatian coast would really not turn into Spain's Ibiza, as counterpart Tonchi said, on the islands should be determined on a restrictive basis where it can be built and under what conditions, and where it is explicitly prohibited, taking into account the development of the island as it is done in world paradises on earth as they call the Bahamas, Maldives, or the Caribbean and similar islands that have perfectly blended in with the exclusive and very profitable tourist offer, not affecting the appearance of the island with concrete complexes, but they have made the words of the islands more beautiful and richer. Be assured that none of these facilities are built with state money, but it's all private capital. The state and its role only consistently insisted on the implementation of urban detailed plans and are very up-to-date in tax collection. Furthermore, the narrow coastal belt is generally good and cannot be sold or become private property as stated in Article 5. The Law on Maritime Goods, which I quote, "For maritime good, no right of ownership or other real rights can be acquired on any basis." So let's apply this law that we already have. I therefore conclude that the application of the Law on the Sea Good and the Protection of the Island with detailed spatial plans and strict implementation of the same can ensure effective protection of our islands, regardless of the holder of ownership and therefore, if a large commercial construction interest in the purchase or concession of the island is banned, it is certain that it falls. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-22-0.u20848	Thank you. On behalf of the HSS Club, the esteemed representative of Ante Markov.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-22-0.u20849	Dear Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues, the issue of restrictions on the availability of ownership, the issue of protection of our island, our most valuable resources, and something that has been mentioned for a long time, there are different views on the way we should regulate these relations and different views which are managed by measures and methods in an attempt to limit or better organise the most valuable resources we have and which are the most valuable resources we have. How to get to it... which will show us what the value is, not the material value, but the useful value. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Because there are two theories in economic theories today. One is a theory of profit and another is a theory of value, a useful value that in nature creates things that oppose the theory of profit. Of course, from such an aspect it is quite doubtful how to approach if we want to enter into the content of this bill and its objective, the fundamental task is to protect the most valuable areas that Croatia has in a way that would be in line with both the Croatian Constitution and the legislation and which would not significantly disrupt future relations with the European Union. That's why I think we have time and ways, and it's incorrect that the time has passed to regulate that matter. And today there are four years that we are about to coordinate, or liberalise the real estate market, even as far as the Stabilisation and Association Agreement is concerned. Therefore, every Croatian government has 4 years to respect the experiences and some other countries that have done so with their greatest values exactly that. What is important in the assumption that we want to protect these most important values that we have is the fact that today given the relatively liberalised real estate market and the fact that in Croatian legislation the only obstacle standing in the way of a foreigner becoming the owner of these properties is the discretionary decision of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. But still, there is a possibility of hypothetically if the Foreign Ministry does not give this consent that the property trade in question could not be done. But, of course, it is not only the possible way to protect it, because today it is known that just for the sake of someone else, Croatian citizens can do the same trade in question without harming neither Croatian legislation nor the need for them to seek the consent of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Furthermore, the traffic of the property concerned by legal persons registered in Croatia is also very simple and this cannot affect its application or application. By passing a new Law on Spatial Planning, which he has arranged. The coastal protected belt and created a special urban zone to call it that, with all the specificities and also with what I was saying was in principle a conflict of the right of equality because such an urban whole does not exist anywhere but exists on islands and coasts. But it's also the fact that this intervention is actually somewhere on the trail and on the initiative of those who advocate more significant protection of that space. Because it is absolutely true that, on whether real estate will be found as a customer's interest or not, it depends on what it is possible to do in that space and how the relevant legislation stands. But also, regardless of these formal and informal obstacles, when it comes to dots and our coasts, and I come from that area from a municipality that has 180 islands and 360 islands, islets and cliffs, and I own a family island. I can say that there is one major misunderstanding left, of course he is not the subject of this Law and these are the people who live on the islands. Often in these formulations, especially the legal nature of a conspiracy to some great protection is forgotten by people who live there, so if these people read the laws, they simply don't find themselves there. The truth is that the Croatian islands, which are mostly privately owned and, let's say, as far as Central Dalmatia is concerned, have never been nationalised for reasons that it was not worth it. These people who own these islands and who are today the owners of this island are sticking to a practice of one tradition that few have hurt or to say almost no one has hurt her in terms of the right to inherit these islands and rights and in relation to the right to have that inheritance so far, thank God for that. Those who live on the islands know that's the case. Of course that's not enough. But these people preserved those islands, preserved their beauty, and preserved their purity. They also preserved his clarity. And these very people, along with these islands, actually represented the most powerful character of that property. Together with these islands, they became part of the island. And one economic activity in the then primitive circumstances has actually suggested which is an unbreakable link between these people and these islands. Of course this is my little poetic understanding of these islands, unfortunately, has passed. The time has passed and these people are either gone or they are in late years but this one beauty that many poets have described in their songs I think we need to find a place in our legislation and we need to protect those values including the population. I believe that speaking of islands, the promoter has always thought about the island population, which is actually why we're doing this. And we can succeed in this, gentlemen. We have time and we have the right, like some other countries that are already in the European Union, to use our right and to use certain restrictions or benefits of those who are now owners, to encourage them and to allow them to be traffic owners without selling their islands. In other words, we must enable them to live on their property. What people say to be on their own. And they're not on their own if they're a social case or if I'm gonna sell my property to buy a car. So this is a very serious project and it's good to be initiated. We welcome this initiative. We absolutely support it, and we believe that just looking at all these and legal and historical and contentary reasons why it is important is very serious, systematic and thorough to approach the process of negotiating with the European Union, and as I said, we have 4 years until we have to have full liberalisation of the real estate market. So we have time to look up to some countries that belong to the modern world, to the modern market, and to the leading members of the European Union who have, in particular, protected their islands with almost exception. Exclusion. So traffic is not possible. I think that by respecting some of my experiences in the current practice, Croatia would extend the topic when it comes to national parks, nature parks or almost now when we talk about this coastal, coastal protection belt means the Adriatic as a unique urban zone. Once a new term. That we have absolute and reason to build and demand that our interests be incorporated into future negotiations with the European Union in such a way that the most valuable resources are in the system of exceptions, and that everyone else be clearly supported on the basis that will ensure that the present owners and locals remain there and that all the contents that are linked to these locations are subsidized, encouraged by the state and that the state ensure the re-co-existence and that the whole of which these islands would not be islands, which is the unity of man and that island. And only in such a way will this bill have its purpose and will they find their goal if our negotiators take this very seriously, this time that is not great, a period of four years and in that time I believe that we can do all the positive things that this bill is specifically in its reasoning, that we can give those generations behind us and believe that they will be grateful for that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-22-0.u20850	On behalf of the promoter, dear colleague Pero Kovacevic. Here's your esteemed colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-22-0.u20851	Dear Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen! I am sorry that there is no one from the government when discussing such an important legislative proposal, and what is the situation that there is not much time left for the esteemed colleague Markov to say, I will now illustrate to you the following information that the expert team has come up with with a brief analysis. Namely, how much interest in property in the area of the sea, meaning in Croatia, not only islands and everything else, tells you the fact that the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development has donated to Croatia, means a contract has been concluded between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development of Gifts for the Land Books and Catastra Project, support for the registration of maritime goods. The contract was concluded on 6 July 2004, and was published in the National Journal, international contracts number 8 of 15 September this year. And here we get the amount of EUR million and EUR 960 million as Croatia, and it's exactly written, exactly in that contract which is the purpose, so it's about the targeted donation. The great purpose is to take down land books and cadastres for the purpose of contributing to the development of an efficient real estate market. It's all been said nicely. And now the good situation is always like that. We received a million and 960 million euros, and out of that, 645 thousand euros goes to the same international bank for their advisory services. So we didn't even get that amount to spend on doing land books. So it's just a matter of purpose money being given to speed it all up. Now, one mild analysis. Get People's newspaper number 130 this year. So the last People's Newspaper, and now you'll see foreign companies earning money by selling out Croatian real estate. All, all these foreign companies, Croatian companies or companies, have a core capital, moving EUR 20 thousand. And now, 20 thousand kunas of pardon. And now just take the ad part. So People's newspaper number 130 since 20 September 2004 where the register is published at the Trade Court and watch. You are now going to “Karzeras”, so the main purpose of this company is the sale of real estate. Great Britain are members of society, so liquidators and founders. Let's move on. “Hibernia Fun”, the same situation selling real estate, there are the Irish. Let's move on. “Dividender Development”, there is the same situation. So 20 thousand kuna, Irish. Let's move on, again “Dividender” the same company but also Irish others. Let's keep going “Azzure” the same situation and so on. So the Italians, the Hungarians and all the other situations. So that's the situation for you to get into a situation like that with some big capital, and why is that? That's the consequence of the Foreign Law. We have made it possible to register the names of foreign companies that can easily be registered in Croatia and you will see if you closely follow that in all these companies, registration says that someone is a procurist. And what does that mean as a procurist? That he can get a business and work visa for three thousand and seven hundred kuna and he makes three thousand and seven hundred kuna sale of Croatian real estate in the area of the island and the other and makes more money. And we are being shown how it entered great capital in Croatia. Namely, this Foreign Law, now I'm just going to tell you one parallel, I last spoke about the problem of how immigration must be prevented, so let's just say there was an example of the Chinese I was talking about. Now we'll see how Australia handles it? Australia solves it to protect its property and everything else. In order to prevent the immigration of the Chinese from Hong Kong to Australia, Australia is asking for a business visa that each of them must have $500000 in their account. These are the meanings of these, I'm not saying in our frameworks whether we should go to it, but these are the versions where states take care of their property. Where countries care about their companies and where they act rationally. We don't mind giving a stranger a Nobel Prize so that he can buy real estate means that the world's normal and Croatia is well served. But as the situation goes on, I won't be surprised if they end up being Al Capone d.o.o. How far did it go? Therefore, there is not much time, if you do not find it difficult to take every time we get and at home of the National Journal, look at the ad part you will see the registration of companies and how much business it is. So Croatia is sold but not sold by Croats, at least in that part of the profit, and it's a total sale. And you see what these presents are like. This is the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. Where exactly the pilot project is said to be, it writes to you exactly, let's say in this part of what needs to be done, cadastrian measurements and renovations of land books and maritime domains, including digital ortho photo and cadastral maps. In selected pilot areas. It even means choosing a very dangerous situation and we're really going to sell everything out if we don't take appropriate measures and we need to be aware of these facts and so I briefly said this brief analysis that says a lot what the situation is. And you don't have a lot of time, wait. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-22-0.u20852	Thank you. Dear colleague Kovacevic. We're continuing the debate in cubes. It's on behalf of the club IDS a respected colleague of Damir Caine's. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-22-0.u20853	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, gentlemen of the Parliament, here we see this proposal has only three articles. I'm sorry, just three articles. And in the first article, it says, the state has the right to purchase real estate. In the second, the legal domestic and natural or legal person cannot acquire the right of ownership either in part or in full on islands, hills, the territorial sea of the Republic of Croatia, which are of particular interest to the Republic of Croatia. And the third is what is important if the domestic or foreign natural or legal person has already acquired part of the ownership or the full ownership of the property referred to in the preceding paragraph, the adoption of this law shall cease the right of ownership. You can imagine. It has a property with a previous item and the previous owner has the right to expropriate. There should probably be a fee here, according to the rules of expropriation. This explanation, which is ahead of us, states that three islands have been sold in the Adriatic and that Smokvica II in front of the island of Medulin, in front of Medulin near Pula. It is also said that Croatia has 718 islands and 387 hills. And that all 50 of them were constantly found. It is also said to be in line with the accepted standards of the European Union that Croatia has accepted. In addition, HSPe proposes a solution that is valid for the purchase of i.e. in the sale of cultural historical monuments. We need to add clearly those initiatives that go in the direction that are 100 percent banning the sale of real estate to foreigners, but we are now in order. When the islands were mentioned, they were sold to a Russian billionaire who wanted to build a congressional center for our local people. Fortunately, they're not from IDS, they're from IDF and SDP. And I personally marvel at the Medulh municipality that agrees to build such a convention center on the island. I'm simply surprised at that municipality that bids to plant electricity on a rock and now advocates such a devastation. It is also said that this Russian billionaire, before or someone on his behalf, may not know not on his behalf, but mainly threatens sellers and that he is dealing with both this and the Croatian intelligence community because I cannot comfort the building permit on that island. However, this is not the subject of this short proposal, which the IDS will support if paragraph 3 of Article 1 is amended. What we're going to get through this law, however, is the essence that I'm going to try to answer. The public is now making an impression and this is what I mean by some sides in this Croatian Assembly, that it should be 100% banned from selling real estate. First, with these two islands from independence to date in Croatia, the foreigners, according to the former Croatian ambassador to London, have now acquired about 30,000 properties at the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development of Mr. Andrija Kojakovic. If 30 thousand properties were sold to foreigners in Croatia, I suppose six, seven, maybe eight, maybe ten thousand properties I don't know, because the opportunities in this area were a little bit better than in other parts of the Republic of Croatia. Like a pulse garter, it is incomparably more orderly than Zagreb or Split. Of these 10,000 properties, say, local self-government may have sold over the last 15 years to pages 20 if. Who's selling them? They're selling our people. They sell ordinary few people who are trying to get rid of some other existential problem to buy a tractor, build an apartment, open a job for their daughter. Or my son. And now we're asking ourselves if anyone can forbid it. If it's banned, then we'll turn all those people against ourselves, that's clear. But that's less important. It's something else that matters. That's not possible because of the reciprocity this country has with one Austria. Germany, America, Canada, Italy and so on. And reciprocacy regulates that matter differently. Croatia has a strong diaspora. Of them several hundred thousand watch out, who have Croatian citizenship abroad, I will not say hundreds of thousands but tens of thousands of people own real estate in Germany, Italy, Austria, America and so on. My mother's brother who lives in Ahena wouldn't take German citizenship has a house in Ahena. There's a stay in Germany. Now imagine someone telling these people, gentlemen, you won't be able to buy. Or, as this paragraph 3 reads, Article 1 terminates that right of ownership of its John and has the right to compensation under the law of authority. It's an expropriation law. Well, that'll cause, I don't know, an international legal incident. As it would be, if someone had bought this Russian man who bought those two islands next to Medulin, he said, "Listen, I don't know, we're going to expropriate it to you." He would probably want to get that money again today after facing the inability to build on these islands, but it is difficult to get the money proposed by the promoter who clearly gave it. The 3rd page is and so far we have all been aware of the fact that we have acquired real estate in a way that has formed companies in Croatia, and they can gain unlimited property. More real. These companies are notes registered by domestic legal entities before domestic commercial courts. Taxes are paid in the Republic of Croatia clearly by foreigners. Finally, Croatia enters the European Union, I can only mention this Stabilisation and Association Agreement and what did not go with Slovenia to ban its real estate, I doubt that it will eventually follow the Republic of Croatia's hand. How much you got to be skilled are our negotiators. What needs to be done to prevent if it is possible to sell agricultural and forest land to foreigners like I don't know, went after the Danes. But we're not gonna do that legally. political events are already exclusively diplomatic negotiations. And then what until then. The only effective measure is spatial plans. But that you're gonna stop our people from selling real estate, that's not what we're gonna do. And they'll do it or sell that property to whoever offers more. In 2003, 25 thousand purchases were made in Istria. The local self-government except the city of Pula may not have sold anything. Who sold 25 grand which apartments, buildings, plots, apartments, and so on. Our men, my outcasts. Is that a poor population now? Well, you're lucky I'm poor there, too. At last, foreigners acquired the basis of the purchase of Croatian real estate companies, whether they were hotels, INAs, Željezari Sisak, I don't know who not everything, although for the Croatian economy is few who are interested, they also acquired the foundation of denationalisation. They've been saving the most in the purchase of refurbished banks. Also, if he can't do something, he can't buy a stranger more precisely, who will buy a stranger in Croatia? I can't, Pero, I don't know, they'll buy Croatian tycoons. Then why are we doing the law for them? Sad or not, Croatia will have to accept foreigners. I will also always tell anyone who asks me, don't sell real estate, because they grow at a price of 20, 30% a year, but I doubt whoever doesn't have an apartment will eventually listen to me. So I repeat, the only measure is spatial planning, and that the state local self-government gives larger complexes to rent, concession, I don't know, forms the right to build and so on. And the point is, I'm going to say spatial planning one more time. That's what the island needs to say. The maritime good is not sold, but yet who is this Medulin family, not from IDS, could prevent the sale of the island? No one. And will this law be possible? Only if we say all islands are of special interest to the Republic of Croatia, and this power cannot afford. Secondly, what would the Croatian government do if these Medulin sellers offered her the first buy-in right for $2 million? Well, the Croatian government would only find out, so we don't have that money in the budget. The same thing would have made the municipality of Medulin or the County of Istria. That $2 million didn't end up being paid a tax or anything like that. And it'll always be that the state will say, we can't buy it, but I'll say it one more time. In the IDS, we support this approach by Mr Tadic, because we may be able to come up with a more realistic price, and thus higher income from real estate tax, means that this has the right to offer the championship to the state, etc. Finally, what would Mr. Tadic do if he had no parliamentary salary, had no apartment here in Zagreb, and had someone offer him 1,000 squares of 100,000 euros on Hvar? He would sell and try to solve his existence here in Zagreb and let's not just make problems out of it. All in all, this is clearly interesting matter, but there is no place for politicizing, because we are going to damage our people, the other reciprocity is sacredness, interstate contracts, to return to the Constitution, have power over our laws, and thirdly what with legal persons today owned by foreigners? For the end, I'll say it one more time. In Article 1, this paragraph 2 and 3 is logical, let it go in that direction, but this Article 4, paragraph 4, of Article 1, that is to be abandoned by gentlemen. This law cannot go backwards, it must apply to the future. Finally, this retroactivity is certainly and unnatural and certainly unconstitutional. For these three sales cases that are concerned, these are Smokes, Fraskera and Fraskerić near Medulin, we must not degrade the principles of civilized nations and I would clearly, to preserve our people everything that is theirs. On the side that 1/3 of New York is owned by Japanese or these as they say, not Africans, but from the Middle East,... as well as 1/3 of London certainly owned by Americans or Japanese. But other than spatial planning and attempts to make Croatian citizens, i.e. The owners themselves are investing in us simply at this point do not have many measures left, except for one patient negotiation with the European Union and clear spatial planning. But it is good to now negotiate such a legal proposal and the IDS' position is unequivocal. This item 2 and 3 we support, 4 absolutely can't because it's out, I'd say, time. We support this meaning, these two first paragraphs, because it is part of the Law on Islands or the Law of the Sea, and it is necessary to force diplomacy to advocate the exemption of certain units, if possible, but the question is how and how will ordinary small people who have properties by the sea react to it. Probably the same way they reacted after this regulation on the ban on traffic of real estate within those 70 m zones, or 1 km, where their overnight value is simply the crumbling value of their parcels. In one word, I have no doubt that we can adopt this, but let's try to talk this through soberly.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-22-0.u20854	Thank you very much, dear colleague. It's on behalf of the SDP Club, dear colleague Leko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-22-0.u20855	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and fellow MPs. If I were not a lawyer, I would translate this bill about like this - poor Croatian citizens sell their grandfathers, even islands, without the Croatian government protecting neither national nor state interests, and it is mandatory to do so in accordance with Article 52. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, to quote: "The sea, seashore, islands, water, airspace, mineral treasure and other natural resources, as well as land, forests, plant and animal life and other parts of nature, real estate and things from the particular cultural, historical, economic, ecological meaning for which the law stipulates that they are of interest to the Republic of Croatia have its special protection". And paragraph 2: "The law lays down the way in which goods of interest for the Republic of Croatia can be used, the powers of rights on them and the owners, and the compensation for the restrictions they are subject to." Right behind that should be said. It is a good idea of the Club of HSP Representatives, I believe that it was initiated with an open Bresch either by the Government of the Republic of Croatia when giving consent in the reciprocity of real estate and land transport in the Republic of Croatia with foreigners, without being protected by other regulations and interests of national interest. That's why at first I say, this is the law, I'm sure, and the HSP Club knows we can't bring it, because it would be anti-constitutional, we would nationalize property, and if we hadn't established previous state and national interest on what we're nationalizing. It's not possible to just do that. For this reason, it is very important, and I think it is the last time that a really expert working group is being established, because the legal language tells us the most important transition is being carried out right in the ownership system. From the field of social property, we move into the ownership regime and this is a tradition in the right sense. It is immediately necessary to add that the Constitution and the protection of the right of ownership so that only by law and on the legal basis of interest can it be limited. The good intention of protecting the island is not possible to protect in this way, but it is possible to raise the standards of citizens living below and with their concern who will come to the island as well as those who are traditionally down there, taking great care of every port and harbor, cleanliness and special meaning for the life of these islands. So, the Constitution also stipulates that property is bound by the owner himself, but does not restrict it, does not restrict it in traffic. Why? Because the basic part of either the component or the most important part of the right to ownership is that you have the property. The most important. Our fears of fear under quotes, there is no fear of foreigners if they are previously defined and the national interests established by law, whether they are islands, whether they are rivers, whether they are reserves, whether it is a national park, whether it is culturally good, a monument or even some city core as a specially protected core. Of course, we want to be citizens of Europe so we do not want to put ourselves in two levels who can own something, but all those who want to be owners of Croatia must respect all laws and all national interests established when it comes to ownership. That's why I say it one more time. It is time for the Government to meet its obligation to make a provision in Article 52. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia shall put on the agenda, defining all state and national interests related to property and real estate transport in the Republic of Croatia. Even I think real estate must be encouraged because most of the Western European budgets are being charged with real estate traffic, it's a tax and a good tax. And one more thing, he may be the most just, because he is mostly paid by those who have above existential needs. Therefore, nationality and citizenship of citizens of the European Union have standards in these countries that enable the ownership of these citizens in all European Union countries. Another regime is with citizens of other countries beyond the borders of the European Union. This is a topic that is affecting the foundations of Croatian society, the future of citizens. This is why the topic does not allow any delay. The deadlines run quickly and I am convinced that Croatia will be ready to join the European Union, so that we will be ready for ourselves to join the European Union in 2007, and then special regimes and leaks of sand quickly and more difficult to protect what we did not protect until then. When it comes to something else around the island. There is something very important that is mentioned by counterpart Tadic. The extreme points of state territory are very important. Regardless of what we can speak in principle, that all citizens have the right to property in the territory as well, but it has a certain meaning for historical reasons, and also for the Merit to say so, for marine reasons. And not to put it this way anymore, I am not troublesome with the matter that is clear, but it is urgent that a law that will be adopted in European standards, the Law on Property and other real rights is important that the Government publishes and offers the Parliament some criteria that can protect national and state interests which are not now foreseen in achieving the right of reciprocity between citizens of different, European citizens and the world when it comes to real estate traffic. It is possible to do, of course, already exist with us spatial plans for the whole country, there are national parks, there are protected city cores, there are special islands of strategic interest, there are coastal belts, there are ports and agricultural land. So there are enough elements to offer standards that will not be objected to by democratic Europe or the democratic world because it will be in line with the standards of the European Union countries that protect national interests when it comes to real estate traffic for foreigners. Right away, the same restrictions on real estate traffic apply to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Some properties are simply extra comercio. If we know all of this, then we should welcome the HSP Club's initiative and say that it is welcome as a subject that is problematic to the national state interests in this area and clearly states that the law cannot be supported, because it really does, as envisaged, foresees nationalisation and ownership, and has not been established that for reasons or reasons, this area has not been established by national and state interest. Thank you very much. We won't be able to vote for the law, but we support his intention. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-22-0.u20856	Thank you very much, dear colleague Leko. It is up to a respected colleague, Rosic, on behalf of the club of HSP representatives. Here you go, buddy. Oh, no? Okay. It's on behalf of the HDZ Club, dear colleague Tomljanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-22-0.u20857	Mr. Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. So here I am going to start with the content of how the esteemed colleague Leko ended up in terms of the exhibition of the Croatian Democratic Union's Club of Representatives. Therefore, the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community does not support the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Property and Other Real Rights, which was submitted by HSP Representatives Club to the Croatian Assembly for the following reasons. First, at the Ministry of Justice, a working group has been formed for the drafting of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Property and other real rights, which will not only intervene comprehensively in the law in question but will clearly develop the Institute for the acquisition of rights of ownership of foreigners and islands, bearing in mind the international obligations of the Republic of Croatia on the one hand, and the protection of interest and security of the Republic of Croatia on the other hand. Secondly, the Government of the Republic of Croatia is in the final phase of drawing up a draft of the Law on Islands where what is directly, which will be indirectly regulated and this problem and third and no less important, the proposed amendments and additions to the law are not only the matter of the Law on ownership and other real rights but also of unequivocally affecting other regulations governing legal institutes such as the right of first purchase, the right to empowerment, and in particular in view of the international obligations of the Republic of Croatia and the harmonisation of these legal institutions of real law with European standards. The real rights of foreigners, therefore, and the possibility of obtaining property rights on property, of course, in certain legal systems, that they are different and arranged. The differences differ from a different approach to this problem, from which, indeed, in literature, we distinguish between two basics, so either by one or a, it is a liberal approach that fully balances foreign and domestic persons in terms of acquiring rights and obligations and the possibility of acquiring ownership rights, and under b. this restrictive approach which is characterised by a multitude of bans on restrictions and inability to acquire property rights. The election depends primarily on the political objectives that are to be achieved, noting that the more liberal option is always attracted to more foreigners who will be willing to invest their capital in this case to the Republic of Croatia but, on the other hand, threatens in certain areas by flooding foreigners who can play a dominant role than one that can be considered desirable. However, I would like to emphasise this regardless of which variant it was necessary to find a model, control and prevent the acquisition of the rights of ownership of foreigners if this would be contrary to the interests and security of the Republic of Croatia. The legal arrangement of acquisition of property rights in the Republic of Croatia is in principle the same for all categories of foreign persons. In order to acquire property in possession, and on any basis other than inheritance, all need the agreement of the foreign minister or the minister in charge of the emigrant that would give it or give it in the previous opinion of the Minister of Justice. These consents are not necessary when real estate is acquired naturally by inheritance. Foreigners who are constantly resident in the Republic of Croatia and those who carry out their activities in the Republic of Croatia only have restrictions or restrictions on reciprocity or reciprocity. In addition to existing restrictions on foreign persons, there are, of course, restrictions on the real estate itself, a certain area may be declared a division on which foreign persons cannot acquire property over real estate and, in the event that the acquisition has the character of expropriation, the right to compensation is provided for. This is about the situation provided for in Article 358. Laws on ownership and other real rights, i.e. real estate on the so-called so-called so-called property. Off-limits. All future legal or legal regulations of these highly sensitive substances, of course, must have its constitutional legal foothold, shall be fully in line with the provision of Article 48. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia guaranteeing the right of ownership, the right of succession, and the right of ownership by a foreign person, with the provision that a foreign person may acquire ownership under the conditions of a certain law. Of course there's Article 52. The constitution which we had the opportunity to hear in what sense it should be a very sure constitutional basis for the legislative regulation of this matter, and not only when it comes to islands, coastal areas, protected coastal areas, but also to all the resources that the Constitution of the State must provide for in one special way both forests, agricultural land and water resources and all the way in which it is regulated in the Constitution in Article 52. What to conclude, therefore, can be supported in principle or only the urgency of the bill to protect the national interests, interests of the Republic of Croatia, the other provisions in the proposed law are also disputed regarding constitutional provisions, as regards the prohibition of property traffic, restrictions on ownership rights, and, of course, all the above institutions should be thoroughly analysed from the aspect of international contracts taken over by the Republic of Croatia. Finally, it is necessary in terms of special protection to regulate perhaps one, we have already stated this in relation to Article 52. The constitution, but also more and more often, is spoken of as one of the strategic interests of it, indeed, is that I would especially at the end of my presentation and emphasized that these are our water resources, the resources of drinking water as an area of strategic importance for the future of the Republic of Croatia, and that should be one of the segments that should cover perhaps not in this law but certainly that in their proposals the Government will care for both our resources in which way and as best as possible protection for future generations. Finally, for all these reasons, the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community will not, of course, support the legal provisions as well as the proposal for the Law of Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Property and other matters of rights but the intensity that these things are regulated and that, as far as possible, in the interest of all of us, the interest of the Republic of Croatia is certainly valid in every respect and support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-22-0.u20858	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Nenad Stazic. He's gone. He's losing his word on this wheel. The Honorable Vice-President of Dom Mato Arlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-22-0.u20859	Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. I must immediately say that, and personally, not only through the club, I support the idea that the proposal of this law has been opened by colleagues from the Club of Representatives of the HSP. However, the way it is implemented I think it is insufficient and in this respect, in fact, the debate on this bill should be used to draw a specific conclusion requiring the Government of the Republic of Croatia to prepare appropriate legal projects that will finally be developed and implement the provision of Article 52. The Constitution. This is not only about islands, but also about airspace, ore treasure, natural wealth, land, forests, plants, etc. I must remind here that... in cooperation with the International Monetary Fund, a solution is prescribed and accepted to go into restructuring the privatisation of the Croatian forests and that we have not actually resolved before what is in the situation when and to what extent all forests in Croatia can and whether they are under the interest of the Republic of Croatia and in this respect if they are undermined when and in what regime they will apply. And in this respect it is quite clear that this Law amending the Law on Property cannot resolve this issue. We must adopt special laws in accordance with the Constitution and the Law on Property and Real Rights, which will determine not only the state interest but also the legal regime of those goods, which are of particular national interest, provided that we limit corporate freedom and, in certain cases, property rights and, of course, the constitutional provision that we must at that time establish a market fee and not after the granting of special fees which are actually assessed and cannot be assessed in this respect... Therefore, I personally believe that an island law should be adopted if it is to protect the islands in particular, etc., and in this respect through the legal regime of issues of property and real rights, including and the achievement of entrepreneurial freedoms on that property, to see in fact how and which restrictions are appropriate and for reasons of protecting the state interest in segments which are particularly protected and that is primarily the defence and security of the country, this is a matter of course of human health, the health of environmental protection, etc., as the Constitution itself regulations things by nature. That's the first thing I wanted to point out. The second thing I must say is quite clear that some of the ways of the solution offered here are precisely because the idea of protecting this good that is really good of national interest has actually become a bit of constitutional matter, and in this respect it is obvious that some solutions in themselves are not and cannot be constitutional. First of all, it's just an argument that tells us about the real estate that would go to the so-called so-called property. the estimated value to be given by an evaluated, authorised appraisal and not market value is absolutely from the constitutional legal aspect due to the fact that we have to say if by law we want to introduce a special regime in order to protect the state interest on a particular good including in this particular island case, then the owners of those islands cannot tolerate it. So we can introduce such restrictions but we must provide the owners with a market fee if they want to. And that's what we need to fully clear out and there's no special appraiser that's going to lead to a situation that actually determines a possible market value. The evaluator never determines the market value but an approximate or plus a minus market value... The second issue from the constitutional legal aspect is also very questionable is the question referred to in Article 2 where it is said that the Ministry of the Sea, Tourism and Development and Transport will, by its regulation, cite islands and rocks of particular interest, not at all. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] First of all, the Constitution is very clear here, it can only be under the Constitution of the law, and then further legislation must develop the legal regime on restrictions on ownership, entrepreneurial freedoms and, of course, the regime itself, the way rights are exercised and applied, these same islands. Therefore, in no way can it be the ministry, and what we can say, we can infer to the government to prepare such laws and work out all these criteria related to that part. And in this respect, of course, take care of the protection of interests, or protected goods which, when protection is actually protected, are actually the state interest of the Republic of Croatia and this is a question such as the defences and the security of the country, that is, among other things, the protection of nature, the human environment and the health of the people referred to in Article 50. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, in this segment, if we are to prescribe and restrict both ownership and entrepreneurial rights and prescribe additional arrangements for the implementation and use of them, then of course we must be aware that we must do so by law and that these constitutional and legal criteria must be respected to the end, but not at the expense of the current owners, but at the benefit of the social community. The current owner must not have any damage, he must receive compensation at market value or for seized property, or for limited entrepreneurial and ownership rights and at the same time we will protect the fundamental value of the State interest of the Republic of Croatia, segment. The second thing that I, the third thing that I wanted to point out, was that the stimuli doesn't sell the islands. I can't even sell islands right now, that's what matters. And colleagues in the context of certain provisions themselves say that they do not go from selling islands but in fact individual areas on islands, i.e. particles, etc., but they say in large islands this same law does not apply, says the reason for the sale of particles to large islands rather than only the rocks and smaller islands that will lead to that if more than 25% sell such particles that they will actually hold to the question of the surface. Now, that you see is an additional restriction and at the same time it is not further developed by law and where it is shown in a particular island, a particular hill of state interest. This is a question that needs to be developed, such a criterion can be incorporated, but should be built in then taken under the denominator, the constitutional denominator of the state interest. I have to say, fifthly, I think we're discussing this problem for two reasons today. The first reason we're not formally legally looking... They have implemented and implemented the provision of the Constitution of Article 52 to the end and the second reason is that they did not implement at the end and legal possibility and the Law on ownership and other real rights where it is said that the law can declare an area where foreign persons cannot have the right of ownership, and I am also told in which conditions can be authorised, although that property has already been acquired so that, of course, under market conditions, they can be authorised. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, we have left here and one option and now the question is actually whether we have quietly accepted some other concept of state interest at least in current political practice. That the state interest was among other things that property rights can be exercised in these areas, of course by respecting the principle of reciprocity and... for the public who have been certified besides the rest of our Ministry of Economy or the Ministry of Justice and Administration which, the property-legal administration together with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, we have to have a debate about this. Obviously, the time has come after all these things that have proved to be intruding into fundamental values or through such acquisitions of property on the islands, on the coast, and probably possibly on agricultural land and on forests, which is less what we are talking about, and in the interests of the Republic of Croatia, that the time has come in which we must simply take measures to regulate these issues by law. And for this reason, what the colleagues of the HSP Club have proposed should first be evaluated from the point of view of a good idea, the second in terms of first reading, and, in principle, it is well discussed, third, that from the constitutional legal point of view, the obvious way of trying to solve this is not good but it has to be done differently and fourthly, it is necessary to accept one fact that we simply accept in relation to Article 52. We need to pass several new, special laws that will need to determine the state interest and establish restrictions on ownership, i.e. entrepreneurship rights and, of course, the way in which ownership content, ownership itself, or the legal regime of funds in such a type of ownership is achieved. And there are then, as the Constitution itself says in Article 52, the clear sea, seashore, islands, water, airspace, ore treasure, other natural resources, but also land, forests, plant and animal world, other parts of nature, real estate and things of particular cultural, historical, economic and ecological significance for which, even now, it is a question of when in those segments the law will determine and in which part there is a state interest and why. And if there is a need to protect this state interest from the aspect of the exercise of ownership rights, property freedoms and entrepreneurial freedoms in the Republic of Croatia, or under which restrictions these rights fall to the owner in order to actually achieve the state interest and if these restrictions fall, then the corresponding market fee must be granted to the owner so that the previous owners cannot be in a more unfavourable position than this Act that we are about to bring. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-22-0.u20860	Thank you very much. I'm reporting that at 18.55, it's time to report on this agenda point. We've got 10 more deputies on this point with a couple of minutes of club debates. Now, our colleagues and colleagues would break up, continue tomorrow at 9.30 p.m. The first is representative Dražan Bošnjaković, so Neven Mimica, Željko Kurtov, Alenka Košisa Chicin-Shain, Zlatko Tomčić. After five minutes Clubs Ante Markov, Club HSS and Damir Cain Club IDS. After that debate, we took the order of the Bill on the Croatian Memorial Documentation Centre of the Homeland War, the Proposer of the Club of Representatives of the HSP and an identical proposal of the Government law with my proposal, and that is what we will do tomorrow, to be a united debate. Still on the agenda. Except that there are no conditions for discussion for points 9, 8, 9 and 10. My colleagues and colleagues interrupt the session, resume tomorrow at 9.30 p.m. We're going to continue the session. Discussion on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Property and Other Rights. Dear Representative Drazen Bosnjakovic. Yeah, okay. On behalf of the promoter, Honorable Representative Tonči Tadić, please welcome.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-22-0.u20862	Your Honor, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. I'm sorry I can't welcome you on behalf of the HSP Club as the promoter of this Act and the representatives of the Government. Although our bill is of exceptional importance for the protection of Croatian national interests. At the beginning of today's session, I would like to comment on a few moves that were said yesterday during yesterday's afternoon assembly debate. And also introduce you to this topic of respected colleagues and colleagues who were not present here so that today's debate would be more content. Also, on behalf of our Club of Representatives, I thank all the MPs who discussed this bill very extensively yesterday. As well as members of the Committee on Legislative Affairs and the Committee on Environmental Protection who also wanted to improve this proposal with their comments and suggestions. Our bill wants to stop the existing stampede in the purchase of real estate on Croatian islands, especially in situations where you want to buy a complete island. With our bill we offer actually two clear solutions. In a situation where more than 25% of the surface of an island is purchased then it is necessary to offer the state the first purchase. So these are situations where with purchases more than 25% of an island without counting maritime well-being. Regardless of the outcome of such a purchase, regardless of whether it will be attractive at the end and buy the island, or more than 25% of the island. This is how the state acquires insight into what it really wants with such a purchase, or what the customer’s real intentions are for such a large area of the island. A similar system exists in the protection of Croatian cultural goods in the law on the protection of cultural goods, where the state also has the right to first purchase. Since islands are an important part of Croatia's image and heritage, it is logical to apply such a procedure to the protection of the island. The second option is to disable any trade in those islands that are strategically important for Croatia. Of course, the Ministry must make a rule on what these islands are, and it is rather about islands that are part of the national parks of nature which are an important waterway. On which are, for example, lighthouses, island and cliffs, which draw the starting line of the Croatian territorial sea. For example, Palagreža or Apple. In these situations in our court, you will not be able to have any foreign property over these islands, and if that is the case then it would be necessary to go into the extradition procedure. The average price that has so far been paid for meters of land on islands if es buys the entire island is incomprehensiblely low and amounts to less than 10 euros per metre square metre. This means that the state in these situations could definitely find funds for an expropriation operation. The discussions also mentioned that this would make it impossible for people to use their properties on one hand. Then, the thesis was mentioned that all of this was necessary to do but that before that it would be necessary to make a proper strategy of relations with the islands, and to define what national interests are. We agree with that. However, the HSPe cannot take over the work of the Croatian government. We are opening an initiative with this, we are making our own clear and consistent legislative proposal, and in the accompanying regulation, the Government is obliged to define which islands are of strategic national interest. But what I want to warn you about is an example of a Maldives country which is a completely island state, a country that has the same number of islands and rocks as Croatia not 1000 as Croatia, but 1100 and which have acted the following way. Similar laws have prevented the purchase of the entire island, but various incentives have been directed to the public to rent islands. 25, 30 or 50 years old. So no one says we're making this impossible for real estate. But of course, we cannot draw in our law existing owners what they will do in this situation. We're just saying that islands can't be sold to foreigners, but no one in our law has forbidden them to be rented. And 20 years or 10 years or 5 years. So that the next generation also benefits from it. If the island is sold for 4 to 5 times less valuable today, than it will be worth in 5 years or in 6 years or in 10 years we do not only damage this generation but every next generation that could live from it as they do with Maldives. It also mentioned environmental protection, which refers to the sale of the island, but we are giving stronger regulation to make it impossible to build on these islands. Well, it's quite clear that the man who buys that island actually wants to play Aristotle Onasis on Scorpios Island and build grand villas there. No one buys that island to walk among the maquis. It's to build something there. But the Maldives Republic is also very clearly solved. Construction of more than two floors has been disabled, the building must no longer occupy any of the 20% of the island's surface, there must also be recycling, for waste and for waste water, and so on and so on. And all together on a rented island. So the possibilities definitely exist, just need to take this important step before that. So to say that there is a state-run Serbs and that the state is watching what happens to islands if more than a fourth island is bought that the state takes care of it and that no one is playing with it. On the other hand, it does not occur to anyone in the Croatian state, or to the state itself to sell strategically important islands that are part of national parks that are part of the waterways or define our island line. The starting line of the territorial sea. So that's what I want to mention in this regard, and at the beginning of today's debate on behalf of us from HSP as the legislator of this law. Of course, what would be the value offered by the state? Estimated, taking into account market circumstances. So no appraiser will offer a value that is significantly lower or significantly higher than the one that can be obtained for that island at that time on the market, if the sale is to be done then. So things are pretty clear about that, too. It's a country, i.e. According to the HSP proposal, the Croatian government reacted in the usual way by mentioning that our bill is good, but that the government will do better, of course. We have not received this for the time being despite months of announcements, but what happened is that citizens who were selling islands, hearing about this HSP initiative, who had already been publicly published in the press, had already acted in this way and that, when it came to the island of Gustac, close to the Kornati archipelago, that the owners there had offered the island to the state for the first time with the help of the intervention agency. So HSP's idea of the first purchase of the state has already practically come to life. So with these thoughts in response to what was said yesterday in the debate, I urge you to continue today to discuss this law, and to support it in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-22-0.u20863	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Drazen Bosnjakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-22-0.u20864	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. This is a law that really asks us a very important question that needs to be seriously considered, which is the protection of our islands from sale, and it is absolutely certain that this law is welcome in this sense that it has appeared on our benches. I must say, as far as the law is concerned, it is concentrated exclusively on the property rights of the islands, the islands themselves, and in that sense I think we should look at it a lot wider on this issue. We have each other's real rights, and this is the right to build on which in the protection of our islands we should also think about. It is a limited real right that gives its holder the right to own property on other people's land, and this property-holder on other people's land has the right to enjoy it, so if we go to the protection of our islands, we should also consider regulating one such right. The Committee on Justice has raised certain doubts about and nomotechnical part of the drafting of this law, but I do not think that these are so serious objections to the constitutional compliance of this law and we are ultimately not to prejudge whether something is in conformity with the Constitution or not. But in any case, some provisions need to be fixed, e.g. in Article 1, paragraph 4 is replaced by the following: The right to expropriation has always been the state, and the owner of the property belongs to certain rights, among other things, the most important right to fair compensation. These are small nomotechnical things, but in any case I think it's good that this law has appeared before us and finally this explanation that the government has given in its opinion means that the government is seriously considering this problem that I don't think so far is so dramatic, but in the future, if this information is true from the explanations that we see, in the future it could really be a problem and I really think it's necessary for the government to respond adequately and I mean it once and for the whole of the regulation, means not only the rights of ownership but also those other real rights that can be reflected in these islands. I therefore welcome the law, but I expect a far broader and more concrete proposal to regulate this issue from the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-22-0.u20865	Thank you. Honorable representative of Neven Mimica. He's gone. He's losing his right to argue on this agenda point. There's an MP yet. Dear Representative Zeljko Kurtov. He's gone. He's losing his right to argue on this agenda point. Honorable representative of Alenka Kosisa Chichin-Shain.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-22-0.u20866	Thank you. So, we are all aware and we know that the sea and the sea coast are, we will agree, the most valuable economic and natural part, and it is not, however, an inexhaustible resource in which the state must lead absolute systemic care, both in valorising existing potentials and in a planous sense, where priorities are defined which the state wants to encourage or protect. The untouched beauty, cultural heritage of the entire Adriatic region and islands, coasts and islands are potentially top European tourist destinations. It is so much more important for the economic sustainability of the coast and islands that the development that monitors the tourism sector also includes the sustainability of development, both by avoiding environmental degeneration, which is mainly visited by tourists. This primarily includes increasing planning control from local authorities themselves, but also curbing negative trends in speculant land marketing and coastal concrete. For a long time, there has been a lack of strategic commitment and a planned approach to the work of the Styria building facilities along the sea by individual projections of individual investors. Space planning documents are key instruments at the disposal of the state in the management of its space. It defines what, where and how it can be built. The spatial plans of the coastal and island areas are either missing or unarranged. It opens up the space of volunteerism, dims development on one side, and for years it has stimulated illegal construction and syphilic solutions. The amendments and additions to the law on spatial regulation that we adopted in July of this year and the extension of the section of the Council on Spatial Planning are expected to introduce more order in spatial theme and protect coastal and island goods. This island law proposes the obligation to adopt a single spatial plan for small municipalities, as well as for islands for which no stronger development is provided by the Government provides funds in the budget for the development of plans and professional assistance in this process, noting that the content of these plans is not necessarily as large as for those municipalities ahead of which stronger development is ahead. The setting of time limits for the adoption of these plans and sanctions for municipal and city councilors who do not adopt such plans within the legal time limit is also one of the newspapers that contributes to the introduction of order into space, as well as the obligation to adopt urban plans, significant detailed and plans to edit the area for green areas in which tourism is planned. In the process of approaching the European Union, Croatia is rapidly entering a new phase of the development of the tourism industry with new investments in transport and inland municipal infrastructure. On the market for relatively low land prices, there is strong pressure, both domestic and foreign investment of capital in the construction of new tourist facilities. These trends will certainly increase with the accession of the European Union, which is expected to take place sometime in 2007. And that is why I welcome the efforts of my colleagues from the HSP Club to regulate and prevent the uncontrolled sale of islands and rocks in domestic territorial waters. However, I believe that this is a much more complex problem that needs to be regulated primarily by spatial planning, because no doubt a significantly smaller interest will be expressed for those areas and islands where construction is not allowed. And since the proposal is particularly questionable in part of the full ban on real estate, which violates the fundamental rights of private ownership, it is also questionable and realistic assessment of the value when the state has the right to buy first, i.e. in case of law enforcement, in a way that four or more formal entities interested in buying the whole island appear. I therefore believe that the proposal for a law of the Club of HNS and PGS on the Agency for Planning, Management, Management and Control of the Coastal Area and the maritime goods which is significantly more comprehensive and content in the debate these days because it treats this problem through concessions. So space should be protected by documents of spatial order, not by legislation that restricts real estate traffic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-22-0.u20867	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Zlatko Tomcic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-22-0.u20868	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I am particularly looking at this Proposal for a Law on ownership and other rights of the Club of HSP, and this is about first reading not only through these proposed provisions which unfortunately refer only to the islands. I believe that this law, in fact, a legal proposal, can be accepted as a good basis for discussion in a much broader context. Generally speaking, about limiting the ability of foreigners to both physically and legal persons to own real estate in the Republic of Croatia in order to protect national wealth and values in terms of protection against devastation and irrational management, and very valuable spaces. So on that track is the HSS initiative he led about a month ago, and there is a strategy under way, a strategic approach on limiting the possibility of acquiring property over real estate. But I don't intend to talk about it more widely, I would just like to look at some of the elements of the proposal itself, but also from a debate that has only appeared in two details so far. On several occasions, it has been said, and in an explanation, that in fact a stampede of foreigners on real estate in the Republic of Croatia has recently appeared. And the question arises, of course, if someone is accusing someone, who's to blame for that stampede, whether it's just market interest or something else. I will remind only one article of the Law on Property and other real rights, Article 356 which makes it very clear that foreign natural and legal persons can buy in the Republic of Croatia, can own property based on reciprocity, so reciprocity with the previous consent of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and on the proposal of the Ministry of Justice. It's actually the key. This law does not define any criteria by which such special permits would be granted that a stranger can speak at this time, buy real estate in the Republic of Croatia, and, if what needs to be done, then it is necessary to claim those criteria. So that stampede was a very light character ten years ago. Today he takes a slightly larger scale, but it is not the responsibility of the SAA, nor of the foreigners, for this is simply the fault of the lack of criteria in the law that gives the Ministry of Foreign Affairs the discretionary right to decide on each request in particular. So my proposal is to address further discussions and to establish criteria on the basis of which the Ministry of Foreign Affairs until other regulations apply, will give these permits. Another interpretation that is very often heard in public is that there is some obligation of the Republic of Croatia, that we must sell, that the Stabilisation and Association Agreement obliges us to sell real estate to foreigners etc. which is completely incorrect. It's simply a false interpretation. I will remind you that the Stabilisation and Association Agreement was signed on 29 October 2001, that it is likely to enter into force in October, November, this year after the last country fully completed the ratification process, it is Italy. There are still some technical elements behind this that need to be done and let's assume that by the end of this year there will be a Stabilisation and Association Agreement in force. Under the agreement, Croatia is obliged to liberalise real estate traffic for four years, so within four years. During the four years or two as far as we decide, the current Law on Property and other real rights and procedures that are currently in force in the Republic of Croatia, hence the discretionary assessment of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, applies. According to Chapter 7 of this commitment, agricultural land and areas are protected by the Nature Protection Act. Of course, there are some other details that are binding, for example, on the basis of Article 60. The SSP states that natural and legal persons, after four years, can be fully equal with the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, and even Article 60(3) explicitly states that the parties will not impose any additional restrictions. So the situation we have is valid until the moment Croatia liberalises real estate traffic with its laws. But that's not the end of the story, and that's why it's the wrong interpretations. In addition to this article, there is one special statement, a joint statement between the European Commission and the Republic of Croatia, which gives Croatia quite broad powers in terms of limiting the ownership of foreign legal and physical persons over real estate in the Republic of Croatia. Above all, in a particular area for the purpose of preserving the environment, national wealth, national security, a clear thing in such a way that such restrictions apply to both the parties and the domestics. In the case of legal persons, Article 49 shall define this. The Stabilisation and Association Agreement, which in one superficial way interprets in the same way will take effect as this previous one for natural persons, therefore Croatia is obliged to liberalise real estate traffic for four years, until then the existing rules apply. By now talking about the exclusion of natural resources, agricultural land, forests and forest land. This article did not define in more detail the natural resources, forests, agricultural land, etc. which again gives the Republic of Croatia the possibility to autonomously determine certain elements of protection and restrictions. This is the current situation, therefore the Republic of Croatia is fully protected from domestic legislation, by applying domestic legislation restricting the possibility of obtaining real estate. The second question is how will Croatia behave in the course of negotiations with the European Union, and these negotiations should probably be completed before this four-year deadline for liberalisation expires. During the negotiations and experiences of other countries, in particular ten new European Union countries, say that two important criteria have been introduced in these negotiations that can also help Croatia. This is the criterion of the general economic safeguard clause, so the country of accession in the course of the negotiations may, on the basis of the general economic criteria, request a delay in applying a specific obligation to the European Union. Another criterion is also introduced, the institution of another residence, of course it applies to natural persons. So let's say what the experiences of the countries that have passed these negotiations say. On the basis of the application of the general economic safeguard clause, the Republic of Slovenia received a delay in selling its properties for 7 years. The clause therefore provides for the possibility of introducing safeguards to improve the situation and adapt certain economic sectors. So no sector is excluded. Therefore, in the course of the negotiations, Croatia can negotiate with the European Union any segment of protection from its specific economic interests. The question is a clear matter of humor as to how we will conduct these negotiations. Furthermore, for example, the Czech Republic, Hungary, Poland, Cyprus has received a transitional period of five years within which they can apply their national laws to acquire a second residence or residence. Of course, in certain areas Croatia can also apply this criterion and say that in the external islands, in certain border areas, a way to acquire a second residence or accommodation can also limit real estate traffic. Even from this criterion, the exception of Malta, which for a variety of reasons, is primarily due to dense population, because of the possible social consequences, has been given the right to keep its national legislation constantly for the acquisition of residence or residence. It is particularly interesting in the case of agricultural land, the Czech Republic, Hungary, Slovakia, Latvia, Lithuania and Estonia have achieved a transitional period of 7 years and Poland has achieved a transitional period of 12 years. So from these examples and the current situation and the application of Articles 60 and 49 and what we can do in the negotiations, it can still be said that Croatia is not so threatened at this time and that in fact only our own resourcefulness of how to conduct negotiations and the application of current legislation can be fully protected, we can draw up a common strategy in the national interest of protecting our space. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-22-0.u20869	Thank you very much. There's two more clubs. In a five-minute debate. The esteemed representative of Ante Markov on behalf of the HSS Club, to apologize, was formerly a replica. Dear Representative Marin Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-22-0.u20870	Dear Mr. President, by accepting this spirit of exposure from fellow Tomcic, he encouraged me when he spoke of... foreigners, etc., for one thought, it seems to me that we are insufficiently taking care of the protection of the island from our citizens and not just from strangers. Namely, we have a situation that has occurred to me this example of the island of Smokvica near Rogoznica, which was owned by the state, so the state gave a concession there in the middle of the 90s to tens of years of a private, I now ask you now what is the difference between bringing a foreigner or a person who is a Croatian citizen, the relationship can be the same and it can be worse for the island, etc. I only mention this because when we talk about islands, we have to take care not only that we don't come into a situation that we're afraid that foreign citizens don't get the way we don't want them, but we have to think to God that some of our citizens are in a privileged situation so that the same islands can be subjected to their own personal interests. I just want to point out by not getting into the controversy with anyone to show this, draw attention to that problem too.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-22-0.u20871	Thank you. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Zlatko Tomcic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-22-0.u20872	Mr. President, obviously that replicas and exhibits, and even this answer to the replica, will still be on the trail of one subject that we are very much all objectively interested in handling in the best way. Of course I accept what Mr. Jurjevic is saying, however, I will remind you that when it comes to foreigners and foreign property, the same thing can apply to both legal and physical persons. I think that Croatia can solve without any problems without any invitation to the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, the issue of environmental protection standards, the size of protected areas, building standards, the authenticity of construction, the special conditions of construction, spatial plans that are not 50%, or 60% of municipalities. Expansion of forest and agricultural land, the revitalisation of agricultural land on islands, the standard of security of the islands, the right of first purchases that does not solve the only issue, because if the actual stampede continued, the state would find itself in a very unpleasant situation that it must refuse its first right because it would not have enough financial resources. However, in this debate, we must start to think that the issue of ownership is not only a matter of grant ownership or a question of land use, but that we must finally introduce more seriously the concept that we are replacing the biggest part of the ownership issue with a lease or a concession of such practice in the European countries. Therefore, long-term concessions can be granted by the state but can in any way be given by a private or natural person, or by an intermediary, in his family's legacy he has a permanent place of employment, islands, countries, buildings, etc., and can be leased or concessiond. So the topic is extremely broad and I think no matter how different we think, it won't go through the replicas, the answers to the replicas, the corrections of the quotes, there won't be any big differences, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-22-0.u20873	Thank you. Honorable representative Ante Markov on behalf of the HSS Club for a 5-minute debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-22-0.u20874	Thank you very much, Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. In the final word, I would like to say that the HSS Club absolutely supports this bill and this initiative, and it is good that it opened at the Croatian Parliament, I think it opened correctly because almost all participants pointed to the need to address this issue and showed positive about the direction of this debate. Absolutely and the HSS Club has taken such a stand and we understand that the fundamental task of the state is to care about both space and people. It is interesting and somewhat paradoxical to see the fact that the most valuable parts of Croatia, the synonym is always represented by islands are also the population's most endangered spaces. So it seems that what's best, best, people don't want to be, they're running out of these areas I think that this fact should at one broader level warn about processes that in Croatia can create really one paradoxical picture, which is that the most valuable spaces, and that in those areas 70 years ago, food on the islands is at least twice as many people as it lives today, the trends that occur in these areas continue to be warned despite the great measures of the programmes, the strategies that the decline of the population in those areas is unquestionably still in the tendency to reduce the population. And then the question arises as to who should be protected, whether space should be protected within the meaning of these legal protection measures, or whether it should begin to protect parallel with the space and the population living in those areas. I don't just think about the sea, coast and islands now, there's a whole series of natural values in our homeland, from the east, Baranja on the bottom, all our rivers, national parks and those areas in which people are practically being moved. Therefore, in connection with this proposal for a law, it is necessary to subdue the strategy of this Law to people and to act suggestively and by means of legislative guidelines in the sense of encouraging those who wish to live on their hearths, on their own property to create conditions for them to really be able to live. I think that combination can bring the fullness of the contents of this subject to the law. Because legal protection to ban someone, but if we don't get someone else to use it, then it won't make sense. Therefore, I do not believe that this country is facing a dilemma of failure or selling to foreigners. We have to raise one of those two, that two times, because one or the other fails or sells to strangers, is equally bad and I firmly believe that there is also a third time that can be re-valorized and put into function the most valuable spaces, because the most valuable spaces deserve the greatest attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-22-0.u20875	Thank you. Dear Representative Damir Cain on behalf of the IDS Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-22-0.u20876	Dear Mr. President, the esteemed Vice President of the Government, the Honorable Mr. Representatives. As I said yesterday, according to no one but the former ambassador of the Republic of Croatia to London, today's European Bank for Reconstruction and Development from the country's independence to the present day, in Croatia, the foreigners have acquired about 30,000 different properties, I suppose that from that number, perhaps 1/5 even will say 6.7,000 of them just acquired in Istria. It is clear also about apartments and apartments and companies and gas stations and land in Istria, even two islands, this Fraskera and Fraskerić near Medulin. How much property is sold annually only in Istria. I also said yesterday about 25 grand of which only at the municipal court in Pula about 8 grand. This year, only at the municipal court in Pula is expected to sell around 10,000 different properties. I claim, the foreigners will be directly, either indirectly buy at least 1/10 of that number. How many of these 25 thousand properties are sold by local self-government? Maybe 20, 50, maybe 100, so who sells 24 thousand 900 real estate a year? Our people, ordinary little people. Why? To resolve their existence, to buy an apartment for their children, to open a job for their children, to pay off some debt, to buy a tractor or something like that. And the question is, is that evil? It's not! And the question is, is this about the poor girl? Oh, my God, I said yesterday, I'm such a poor girl. And can we at the end of the day ban it? We can't! Why? Because first of all, the only thing we're going to do is please the Croatian tycoons. We can't spend time if we're going to Europe. And I agree with Mr. Tomcic that we should be patiently negotiating on the principles to be mentioned. We cannot prevent this because our people will turn against us if they are limited to having their own, and finally because we are limited by the reciprocity that exists between Croatia and Austria and Germany, Italy and I do not know which other countries of America. Croatia, we know for ourselves, has a huge diaspora. Imagine now that someone in Berlin or Rome tells Croatian citizens who have been working there for decades and have no Italian-German citizenship, not you gentlemen, you won't be able to buy real estate. And it would have been indirect to express myself so much of the revolution with us. The foreigners bought among other things and the rescheduled bank, we sell them the entire portfolio of the Croatian Privatisation Fund to pay back the pensioners and then the question is how to prevent it. Only one way is possible through spatial planning and clearly patient diplomatic negotiations. By no means shall God grant this HSP proposal in paragraph 3, 4 that so far purchased real estate be offered to the State under the terms of the Law on Expropriation or Expropriation? Well, we're not 45, we're before 2005. As far as the first law is concerned, I absolutely agree with that part of the HSP provision, but just to tell you the information according to the Ministry of Finance. Last year, real estate traffic in the islands exceeded billions and 200 million kuna. Whether the State will now find in its budget that amount or similar amount to buy those properties in front of some others. I doubt it. As I also doubt that by any chance the Bolkovic family in Pula, i.e. in Medulin, offered... The state for two million dollars for the state in its budget to allocate that money. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It means patiently negotiating with the European Union and the basis of the Law on Spatial Planning or Spatial Plans to preserve space for future generations. Although there are those who have entered the spatial plans who will earn enormously from those who will not be able to be in spatial plans and you know what kind of pressure is on the ground because they are all trying to push with their properties into these construction zones just by counting on the solution of some sales, renting or disposing freely with those properties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-22-0.u20877	Thank you. More club HSP, respected representative Miroslav Rožic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-22-0.u20878	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Just a few words that are important to the intensity of proposing this law. First of all, we at the HSP Club are pleased to have the support of some clubs that we have to admit because of their political orientation and political agenda and expected. We also have some, however, who, and some clubs that are being set up accordingly, I would say neutrally by not actually expressing to the public what their position on this important problem for the future of the Croatian state and in general the Croatian country is. And finally we have the position, in fact, of the ruling club, the most numerous club here that supports our intensity to protect the sale of Croatian countries but I would not support this law as a first step, but I would actually like to fully resolve and protect it quoted. So, many who have represented here have actually talked about how we are already, as if we are already in place and as if we are a full member of the European Union which we are certainly not. There is still a long way ahead of us in our court and the question is at all when we will reach that goal, although we never considered it a political goal in HSP, but the European Union only a means to make life a better place in Croatia. Perhaps the strategy of those who talk about our previously undertaken international obligations such as the SAA, or the Stabilisation and Association Agreement or those who speak as if we are already members of the European Union, may be a strategy of these people or these politicians or these political options when it comes to land sale in Croatia, in fact, that when foreigners buy all the land in Croatia, then, by nature, we will become a country of the European Union, literally. Of course, if there was such a thing as much as you thought it would be, there would be such a possibility that as much as you think this moment is characterized. We would not be in the world, nor in Europe, an exception to becoming a member of the European Union, to become the moment when foreigners have to protect their capital and their properties that they bought in Croatia. This floral message, that needs to be fully solved and it actually reminds me of that famous proverb: “Wait for the donkey until the grass grows.” While we fully resolve it and protect it, we will sell out everything that is valuable in Croatia. This Regulation shall enter The constitution, I must quote it here, says: “The seas, seashores and islands, water, airspace, mineral treasure and other natural resources, as well as land, forests, plant and animal world, other parts of nature, real estate and things of particular cultural, historical, economic and ecological significance which the law stipulates are of particular interest to the Republic of Croatia.” The law lays down the way in which goods of interest to the Republic of Croatia can be used and exploited by owners and compensation for the restrictions they are subject to. It's the ladies and gentlemen of Article 52. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. And international laws, international commitments made from the SAA or some hope for the future that we will soon become a member of the European Union, so that for reasons of reciprocity, we will now have to let everything and everything be sold out, without any law that we should have passed under the Constitution, in fact, are not those international obligations and those international contracts if they are above our laws, they are not also above the Croatian Constitution. At least I hope not. So let us not as donkeys wait for the grass to grow but accept at least this law, at least this partial solution and solve one problem, and not to say that we need to solve it fully, and we haven't passed this law for years, and we should have passed it under the Constitution. That's the point of the story, that's the point of our bill, and that's why we're asking for that support. It is not important here to say that in Croatia every day, a dozen companies, foreign companies, registers that buy real estate and thus acquire property rights over real estate and land without even the famous consent of the foreign minister they should have under the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-22-0.u20879	Thank you very much. SDP club, five-minute debate. Dear Representative Joseph Leco.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-22-0.u20880	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Madam Secretary of State, Madam Deputy Prime Minister. Once again, it is necessary to thank the HSP MPs' club for seeing an important social problem. Legal, economic and national. However, the thesis which is in nature true that poor Croatian citizens sell their grandfathers and that the Government of the Republic of Croatia is obliged to do so within the meaning of Article 52. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia has neither developed nor proposed criteria to protect national and state interests related to the issue of ownership. So that thesis in nature stands. However, the proposed law again predicts that the poorest citizens, the very ones who sell their property, are the most responsible for national and state interests. So the law predicts practically nationalizing their property. That's why we can't accept this model. But we call on the Government of the Republic of Croatia to supersede, supersedely because this is a question that determines the future of generations and generations to come, set up a working group that will, as soon as possible, prepare laws and other materials, standards, legal standards that can go beyond the criteria of the countries of the European Union. To determine what the national state interest is related to land, real estate, cultural goods, historical monuments, natural goods, national parks, coast and so on. Once again, it is necessary to repeat that the nationality of the property owners and its citizenship does not in principle change territory, state territory. Let's not cause unnecessary fear. Let's protect our interests and free ourselves from fear. Once again, it is necessary to encourage the transport of real estate. Real estate needs to be encouraged in order to fill the state budget, so that those who are poorer can reach the source of funds and cross the poverty threshold, become something richer and dispose of their properties in a way that they do not have to sell them but that they want to sell them. In this sense, we really have nothing else to add but once again to ask the Government of the Republic of Croatia to propose very quickly to the Croatian Assembly the establishment of a working group from Parliament, from the Croatian Parliament, in order to cross-partyly reach the standards that apply to this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-22-0.u20881	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, respected representative Miroslav Rožic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-22-0.u20882	Just one little correction, Mr. President. Indeed, counterpart Leko said that it is necessary to encourage real estate traffic in order to fill the state budget. So I'm correcting that inaccuracies right now. What is the situation now of companies that register in Croatia and buy real estate on behalf of, as foreign companies, are doing exactly that. Not full of the state budget, but avoid paying VAT in this way.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-22-0.u20883	On behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Club, a five-minute debate was held by respected representative Emil Tomljanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-22-0.u20884	Mr. President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. So let me say, on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Representatives Club, that we at the Club have undoubtedly regarded this issue as a very important issue. It is, indeed, but we have voiced our own analysis of the question of the legal solutions themselves and the concept of the bill itself. So the Croatian Democratic Community in principle supports the initiative or intensification of the draft law in the first place for the protection of national interests, the interest of the Republic of Croatia. But also in our analysis, we found that the very specific provisions of the proposed law were controversial in terms of constitutional and legal provisions because we had yesterday's opportunity to hear, we literally quoted the provisions of the Constitution, Articles 48 and 52. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, but especially in terms of the very intensity of the ban on real estate traffic, the restriction of acquisition of ownership rights, and of course all these institutions in the law in question should be thoroughly analysed from the aspect of international contracts. Signed as an obligation of internationally recognised rights and obligations, therefore, by the Republic of Croatia. And I would still say that I do not think it is irrelevant to say, at the end of this comprehensive quality debate is also the Government of the Republic of Croatia no doubt accepts this problem as a quality problem to be addressed. And not buying any time as it could possibly have been concluded in terms of colleagues who explained on their behalf and in front of their clubs about this problem. So I will repeat once again that a working group has been formed at the Ministry of Justice to draft amendments and additions to the law on ownership and other things which will not only be widely intervening in the law in question but will clearly be developed by the Institute for the acquisition of the right of ownership of foreigners on the islands. In view of the international commitments made by the Republic of Croatia on the one hand, as well as the protection of the interests and security of the Republic of Croatia on the other hand. And not only do I think it is worth mentioning that the Government of the Republic of Croatia is in the final phase of drawing up a draft proposal for an island law. Although this is a particular problem, therefore, the Legis specialis, the Law on Property and other real rights, but the fact is that this island law will regulate both this and all other issues that, the problems that arise on the islands, the island population, the spatial planning and everything we have had the opportunity to listen to in this debate. Furthermore, I would like to conclude that the proposed amendments and amendments to the law are not just property laws and other real rights. I think we can agree on that, those who are undoubtedly intruding into other regulations that regulate legal institutes. For example, the right to hire, we have had this expropriation, expropriation, and then, in particular, here is what I stress, given the international commitments of the Republic of Croatia, and the harmonisation of these regulations and institutes with these commitments. In conclusion, on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Club, I would like to point out that it is absolutely in favour of the urgency of the proposal. We judge it by an extremely important question. Not only did I stress that, in our debate, it is not exclusive and only about islands in this strategic sense, we emphasized all those that in the extreme line are pro-Article 52. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. Because from the protection of water resources, sources, drinking water as in the future certainly one area of one area that needs to be protected specifically by law, but of course the islands here have an important not to say an important role. And I have no doubt that very soon we will have concrete solutions to the resorient ministries and the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the parliamentary benches. And that we're going to have an even better chance of discussing this very quickly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-22-0.u20885	Thank you, Correction of the Inaccurate Allegation Honored Representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-22-0.u20886	Thank you, Mr. President. It is incorrect that his colleague said that this proposal by the HSP club would hurt him as he was called on to call for Article 48 to be pointed out already. The Constitution or the vulnerability of ownership. That's not true. Because this proposal offers what is most valuable and if the state is really interested then it has already been able to respond to these initiatives and to show whether it is interested, for the right or to exercise the right of the first purchase. Especially if it was offered without the law. And so the state would manifest whether she cared about what she said or not. Not forming a task force. However, the state has disobeyed the right to buy first. So she doesn't care. Therefore, that is the way to say it openly, not to talk about working groups.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-22-0.u20887	Dear colleagues, let us not spread to another part of the one that always causes something else. State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice Snježana Bagic please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-22-0.u20888	Thank you, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. At the end of the debate, allow me just a few more words with all the dangers of repeating yourself about the government's position on the proposed amendments and the addition of the Property Act and other real rights. The Government of the Republic of Croatia did not support the proposed changes. I must stress that she did not support not because she does not recognise the need to protect certain good assets of the Republic of Croatia. I do not think there is here in the hall of anyone who would agree either as a representative of the Government of the Republic of Croatia that the protection of the property interests of the Republic of Croatia or, in that segment, of the possibility of opening up space for foreign persons physically and legally, sometimes our individuals to acquire ownership rights or other rights to certain assets, is a matter not only in the own sense but, of exceptional importance, both in the economic sense and national terms. Therefore, I think there is no doubt in this regard about the government's position. However, it is well known that at this point there is already a legislative regulation that norms, regulates the acquisition of the rights of property of foreigners, that is the reciprocity and consent of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs under the previous opinion of the Ministry of Justice. There is already some property on which, for example, the parties to the maritime goods, even if domestics, cannot acquire ownership rights. You can always... We should also discuss in this House how much we have protected these existing norms from the property that represents the national interest of the Republic of Croatia to limit or completely prevent the acquisition of ownership rights. That's one thing. [[the speaker doesn't understand]] On the other hand, in the accession process of the European Union, the Republic of Croatia has assumed a number of obligations of different character and, in a ownership sense, it has, in favour of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, taken the obligation in accordance with the standards of the European Union, the experiences of other countries, to establish a catalogue of properties that will be idefined, clearly defined, where it will be regulated that foreign persons will not be able to acquire property rights physically or legally. This has been pointed out several times, on the one hand and on the other hand, on the deadlines where other countries have delayed the application of such a provision, i.e. the established real estate catalogue. If we analyse these deadlines, the deadline that the Republic of Croatia has set here also seems to be an example to me. This would not mean, however, that the Republic of Croatia cannot recognise its needs and interests in the short term. However, when we speak in this segment of fulfilling the obligations under the Stabilisation and Association Agreement in that segment, the cross-border and complementarity of ownership laws and other real rights, it is a complex issue, a delicate insemination. And in that segment, the government has formed a working group to properly amend the provisions of ownership laws and other real rights. In this light, it is necessary to observe, of course, both within the border range and the proposal of the representatives of the HSpa Club, which refers to only one part of the property, which is to the islands. The government of the Republic of Croatia certainly shares the opinion of all those who say that the islands are the general property that is located, the properties located on the coast, are a special need and interest to protect themselves. Because they're certainly the most interesting foreigners to acquire. And at this point, the Government of the Republic of Croatia recognises the need to react independently of this systematic solution as soon as possible. So that soon in the final phase, as indicated in the written opinion, they will go with amendments and additions to the Island Law. So specifically focusing on this part of the property located on the islands and along the coast. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-22-0.u20889	Thank you. The correction incorrectly states the respected representative Miroslav Rožic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-22-0.u20890	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Indeed, the Constitution says that all that, not to repeat what it says in Article 52, from the sea to the real estate and things from particular cultural, historical and so on, economic and everything else, should be protected. There's a law on the protection of cultural and historical heritage, so it's a very simple question then. If that's exactly what you said, Mrs Bagic, then how did it happen that the home of the largest Croatian painter Vlaha Bukovac in Cavtat was sold to a stranger, but if you want to sell his painting to a stranger, then you can't because the law forbids you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-22-0.u20891	My colleague Rosic, it's a pragmatic complaint. In the debate, it's not a correction to an incorrect assumption. I'm asking all the MPs to... We still have on behalf of the promoter, final review. Dear Representative Anto Djapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-22-0.u20892	Mr. President, Madam Vice President, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. In the name of the promoter, I would first of all like to thank all the participants of the debate both last night and this morning who, through a very substantial and serious debate, have shown that this problem is clearly recognized by political parties in Croatia, which is finally, I would say, a reflection of the real situation on the ground that is visible, very serious. The debate has shown the need to regulate this issue, both from the position and from the Constitution, and from national security, and of course what may be the most important and developmental possibilities of Croatia. Why did we go with this bill? I would like to remind you that in December of last year when the Croatian government presented its programme to work during its term of office, my debate on behalf of the party club was dominantly warning and asked the Prime Minister what would be done to prevent the sale of Croatia, because there was already an indication of the things we talked about last night and this morning. At that time, the Prime Minister responded very categorically, very decisively, that the Government would do everything to prevent Croatia from being sold out by law, and, of course, this particular thought was not only about islands, but also about land and the source of drinking water, and we went with this bill with one strong intervention in one narrow part. So, it is true that we did not include everything that could be the subject of the sale of Croatia, but it was necessary to react, because here it was 8, 9 months, and it was not only concrete, not just government project, law or intervention in this problem, but just the opposite happened that we were witnesses of both media inscriptions and of the own knowledge of most of us that the sale of Croatia worked. After Croatian politics in this 14, 15 years created both the frameworks and conditions for the sale of Croatian banks, investment economic systems, what remains of Croatia dominantly, it is the Croatian sea and remains a Croatian country. Quite sufficient resources, we at least hope in Croatia the party's right to be the wheel of Croatia's economic recovery. If such a trend continues, the sale of Croatian wealth, Croatian beauty, cultural heritage, which was said earlier by fellow Rožić, an eclectic example, by adding that the house was sold to the former American ambassador, Mr Mongomery, the house of Vlaha Bukovac, which certainly represents part of Croatian cultural heritage, it only says how many segments of unprepared have entered into negotiations with the European Union, not making our balance that we know what it is of our interest, which is cultural heritage, which is what is really of national security, which cannot be sold at the same time, and then the situation is that we without criteria approve of selling real estate in Croatia. My colleague Tomcic spoke very highly, I would say competently about the fact that according to existing legislation, we can deal with this problem, but we are not dealing with it. We do not deal with it, and that is why this proposal was the Croatian Party's right, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Property and other real rights. I would like to say that in order to remove doubts about the legal competence of this proposal, it has been attended by very prominent experts, doctors of science in the field of civil law, international law and maritime law. Therefore,.... intervention where there cannot be a lot of complaints about matter which is very complex both constitutional and political and economic, etc. And exactly the first-price and expropriation institutes that we took as a basis for amending and supplementing the property laws and other real rights are virtually unquestionable. This is where my colleague Cain said that the expropriation we propose in our proposal to amend and supplement the law, that it was practically a 45th return to expropriation. I think it's a lack of knowledge of the objective institution of expropriation. Expropriation does not mean expropriation and nationalisation, but fair compensation under market conditions is based on a quality assessment of a potential owner, such as the purchase of land for highways, when the state has the right to grant and some similar situations which do not need to be cited. Anyone who knows what an authority institute is, knows it's not about kidnapping, it's about something else entirely. The right of first purchase, although it may not always be possible to apply, because the state may not have as much funds and money, it nevertheless allows one assessment of what kind of interest it is, according to which directions, how much real estate was sold to foreigners etc. In this way, the practice so far shows that Croatia has become Eldorado, because without the criteria, it allows for the sale of certain things, which may be of Croatian interest, some may not be of interest, but the intention of this law, the amendments and the intention of this debate was to start something from a dead point, not only to shed some things, and then go through all of this and continue in the same practice. That is why it is difficult for us to accept the grades from the club of the largest club that welcomes the intensity and what the secretary of state said, that the government has seen and recognised and supported all of this, but that this is only a segmental approach, but it is legally very high-quality, it is politically justified and there is no reason why this bill does not enter into another reading, because it can be very high, I would say both to the incentive of both the Government and that expert group that it allegedly did, I heard that something was being prepared, that it was speeding up. To speed it up, because not to be after what counterpart Rosic just said, how about "shut up the donkey until the grass grows," right? Therefore, we must make sure that the work is done and that the colleague Bosnjakovic said, that the assessment is that it is not such a dramatic situation. The situation is very serious, because it's starting, it's like a snowball that's rolling, and eventually there's an avalanche, and if there's any real goodwill, something really has to be done. I call on you to support in the first reading of the Amendment and the addition of the Law on Property and Other Real Rights so that until the second reading, perhaps the Government prepares its proposal for legislation, then we can help on our part as much as we can, in order for the second reading and the debate to come into intervention, Article 356 of the same law, in order to at least establish the criteria for selling some property and in the existing legislation, namely that this discretionary right of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs may be limited in some way to, and when the Minister gives consent at the end of the signature, that it must be contained in some criteria. Otherwise, he, not him, but he, as an institution, has the opportunity and so far to work in a way that we in Croatia do not support the party of rights. Once again, I thank all those who have debated, and those who have been invited, who have been reserved according to our proposal. Obviously, everyone who spoke is talking about the need to regulate this matter, so let's take one first step. Let it be the islands today, and tomorrow let it be the story of the protection of the water source, and then the agricultural land. So there are a whole series of problems that we need to talk about, these are the most life-threatening topics of Croatia today. Farthest-lived subject, far more important than the battle for a better past. We must fight for a better future, and the fight for a better future means practically preserving those values of Croatian economic or cultural who say how interesting Croatia is in fact in the European Union and how much greater our strength is than what we represent ourselves sometimes when we come from the position of our aspirations to move towards European integration. Once again, thank you very much, and I hope you support the vote that our bill enters the second reading. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-22-0.u20893	Thank you very much. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-22-0.u20894	Your Honor, Mr. President, no one suspects the HSP's intentions. However, this Article 4 of Article 1 simply cannot read like this, and it reads...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-22-0.u20895	But it's not like there's anything that can't be said, you've got a correct false quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-22-0.u20896	Well, incorrect, no, he's polluted there with expropriation, or expropriation...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-22-0.u20897	And what's incorrect? What is Mr. Djapic's incorrect claim? ... My colleague Cain, don't quote an article... [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] Comrade Cain, what's the incorrect quote you're correcting?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-22-0.u20898	How is there no false assumption? Well, the incorrect assumption is that it's not nationalization. It's purely nationalization, gentlemen. At the same time, the right of ownership ceases. This shall be stated in Article 4(1). So what are we talking about? Well, we can't just play through that form of retroactivity.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-22-0.u20899	Thank you very much. There are legal institutes of the Law on Execution, etc. Which should be known. Thank you very much. I'm concluding a debate on this agenda point. We're going to the Amendment Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Property Act and other real rights. First reading, bill number 110. Please get the MPs involved. In accordance with the proposals of the working bodies, I am voting on the next conclusion. The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the laws on ownership and other real rights is not adopted, which was proposed by the HSP representative club for the reasons set out in the Government's opinion to the reports of the working bodies. We're voting for, against, abstention. I'm asking for a result. I find the conclusion accepted by 78 votes in favour, 10 abstentions and 12 against.
