ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-17-0.u25391	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, the real explanation will be very short for one reason why you are in the materials for the 2005 draft budget and projections for 2006 and 2007 budget implementation for the first ten months of this year so that these data are far more fresh and far better pictured of the state finances situation, so let me just look back at three segments of the state budget, the implementation of the state budget for the first six months. The first is, you know, that practically the first three months of expenditure was based on the former government's decision on temporary financing, and only 9 March has a new budget been adopted. I would not like to reopen the deficits and unpaid accounts of 2003, but only a few macroeconomic indicators for the first six months. So the gross domestic product growth rate for the first six months was 3.8%, the unemployment rate was 17.4 compared to 18.7 as at the end of 2003. Imports also record stagnation, I would like to say a decline in exports, while exports record growth and what is very important is the data that caused the most contradictions, which are the number of tourists and the results of the tourist season in the first six months. You know that first there were catastrophic checks, but after the data were collected for the first six months then it turned out that the growth of tourism compared to the first six months of last year was 10%. As for the revenue and expenditure side, the revenues have been achieved in the first six months with 45% on an annual basis, but what is very important is to say, and this is far more important as the revenues come true for, given that we are now in the 11th month, we can conclude that the revenues are made more than well and that we are more than satisfied with the projections that we have made when we adopt the budget. Given that after the adoption of this budget and after 30.6., the budget rebalancing was carried out, I say far more relevant indicators on state finances are indicators of implementation for the first 10 months that are being contributed to the 2005 budget material. Here, Mr. President very briefly, therefore, about data that are neither relevant nor relevant for the debate, but it is an obligation to execute towards the Croatian Parliament, so here to discuss the report for the first six months. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-17-0.u25392	Thank you very much. Reporters of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, Chairman of the Committee of Šima Prtnječa. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-17-0.u25393	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, the Finance Committee discussed the report for the first semester and took the next position. In the opening presentation of the representatives of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, it was noted that in the first six months of 2004 they were in line... with 2001 total expenditure incurred in the amount of 40 million 970 thousand, representing the implementation of the rebalancing of the planned annual amount of 49.2%. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Total expenditures for the first six months 2004 show an increase of 9.5% compared to the same period of the previous year. The total revenues of the central budget in the first six months of 2004 were reached at 36 million 944 9 million kuna, representing a growth of 5.9% compared to the same period of the previous year. Such execution represents 44.9 or 50% of planned revenues in 2004. The Committee held that special attention should be paid to the monitoring of the black oil market. It is seen that excise duties always have the same trend. Due to the revenues from excise duties on oil derivatives from year to year, small increases in consumption and prices of derivatives, especially during the course of the tourist season. In addition, it was noted that there are elements of the old GFS in the present report, and in the future, a unique new methodology should be used in this reporting. The Committee on Finance and the state budget of the Parliament decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament the following conclusion by majority of votes 6 for and 3 abstentions. A report on the implementation of the National Budget of the Republic of Croatia for the first half of 2004 is hereby adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-17-0.u25394	Thank you very much. The Committee on Economy, Development and Reconstruction. Dear President, Drago Pukleš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-17-0.u25395	Your Honor, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and fellow MPs. The Committee on the Economy, Development and Reconstruction of the Croatian Parliament at the 16th session held on 23 September 2004 discussed the report on the implementation of the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2004 for the first half of 2004 which was submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Government of the Republic of Croatia by an act of 4 August 2004. The Committee shall be within the meaning of Article 140. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament discussed this report as an interested working body. The opening presentation was submitted by a representative of the applicant. Without discussion, the Committee proposed the following conclusion with eight votes in favour and one vote against the Croatian Parliament. A report on the implementation of the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2004 for the first half of 2004 is hereby adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-17-0.u25396	Thank you. The Committee on Gender Equality. The Tourism Committee. The Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities. The Committee on Education, Science and Culture. I'm opening a debate. There's nothing there, Mr. Caine. SDP representative club, respected representative Dragica Zgrebec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-17-0.u25397	It has never happened, Mr. President, that without television, budget documents are being discussed.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-17-0.u25398	Please don't have a word. Here you go, Mrs. Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-17-0.u25399	Mr. President, ministers, colleagues and colleagues. The SDP club did not vote for the 2004 budget and will not vote to accept the report on the implementation of the 2004 budget. We have explained our refusal of the State budget for this year by the reasons of its insufficient development and social component. We have estimated that development projects are being slowed down, some are even leaving, and there are no new projects the government would propose for 2004. The HBOR, Regional Development and Employment Funds have been reduced. We have estimated that the funding for science and education is insufficiently planned, because the nominal increase in growth covers only nominal wage growth and stagnation. We have criticised the stalemate in decentralisation and the announcement of a decrease in the degree of centralised achieved. It was unacceptable for us to have a low-planned GDP growth rate because we have assessed that there are real conditions for greater development and development projects that must also be stimulated by the state. We have estimated that the low growth rate and reduction of development projects reduces job creation, endangers safe wages and pensions and social benefits. In one word, we have estimated that this budget will not increase the standard of citizens. The low growth rate does not mobilise a total society to engage more strongly in economic activities. Presenting the 2004 State Budget, the Prime Minister highlighted 5 significant equally important targets. And that, supporting macroeconomic stability through the reduction of deficits and consolidation of public finances. Second, support for the economy. He listed roads and railways and reconstructions and Croatian water, assistance to islands, small and medium enterprises. The third objective is defined as the fight against unemployment, the fourth as increased pensions, defenders, parents, and new social programmes. And the fifth objective, an active pro-European policy. We analyzed the achievement of these targets in the first term and came to the next findings. First, support for macroeconomic stabilisation. When we talk about the deficit, it is objective and proportionate to talk about it only at the end of the year, but it is important to point out that this time we did not get the deficit information according to the modified principle, which is very often withdrawn for the 2004 Budget. It should be said that according to the Croatian National Bank report, the deficit in the budget of the extended consolidated central state for the first 5 months of this year was 6.1 billion kuna and was greater by 1.3 billion than in the same period in 2003. We can't talk objectively about the consolidation of public finances, it can only be guessed. Through an example of the ever-long deadlines of payment of the liabilities of the users of the state budget. The second objective is to support the economy and development. How does this work? As far as roads are concerned, construction has been announced, and in the Memorandum with the IMF, the government has assessed the investments so far to the unreasonable ones, so I quote, it says "the spending on road construction will return to a more reasonable level" which is visible from the Budget Proposal for next year. As regards the Croatian Railways, the source of financing has been abolished by amending the Law on Railways and thus the continuation of larger investment in railway infrastructure has been disabled. As economic support is being provided, small and medium-sized enterprises can be analysed through the results within 6 months, but we now have the realization by 10, 11 months. Subsidies to shipyards were announced to be reduced in the first term between 36% and 43%. It can be said that it is related to the dynamics of the construction of ships, so that can be an objective reason. However, state support for recovery and restructuring has not been spent in the first term. For subsidies in public sector companies, the index is 37 and for those outside the public sector 33. As for the promotion of exports, therefore, there is no way the state could say that it proved to have increased exports in this year because only 0.13% were spent on that item. However, it should be said that it is either in the Memorandum with the IMF or to remind the signed postponement of the specified HABOR loan for the 4th quarter of the period of kuna 200 million and that the guarantees provided by the institution in 2005 will be limited. Realisation of measures to boost investment was made by 1%. There are no industrial development agencies because if there were, then there would be some budget implementation in six months. For crafts small and medium entrepreneurship slightly less than 11%, and it mainly refers to the work of the administration because, for example, nothing is spent on local lending, business zones, education of entrepreneurs, integration of entrepreneurs into clusters, entrepreneurship of beginner women, development of innovation, quality system, etc. It can be said that it was temporary financing and that tenders had yet to be opened, but the situation is not much better for the first 10 months, so we estimate that the funds foreseen for this year will not be realised until the end of the year. There is a similar situation with tourism, however, we do not yet have an objective picture because it is an execution in six months. As for the fight against unemployment, almost all education-enhancing items, execution is 0, so nothing has been done under these programmes. There are no new announced employment promotion programmes. The decline in unemployment is left to seasonal deviations and past socially targeted actions. What, the question is, when they slow down and end up starting road construction programs? Increases in pension, defenders, new social programmes have been announced. In fact, there are no increased pension allocations, they only comply under the law, and the promise that by the end of the year, 50% of the average salary can only be a century-old dream. Therefore, only in this year would it be necessary to increase the average pension by about 16%. The signed memorandum with the IMF links the increase in pensions to the average growth of real wages in the economy, which is said to ensure a reduction in the share of GDP pension expenditure. For the Pensions Retirement Fund, so pompously announced, there is an obligation to consult IMF staff and the World Bank before a detailed solution and access to implementation is established, and that is why we do not yet have a proposal for a law on that fund. There is no significant increase in the allocation for defenders in 2004 because the new Defence Act announced for the 1st session in this term was only the first reading and will eventually be applied in the following year. But let's just point out that in the implementation of the budget for the first six months on the "employee" item, there's hardly any execution. The index is 9. We can talk about new social programmes eventually, we can talk about the Intergenerational Solidarity Administration, and it's not really there because we also see in the budget that there is no implementation of the planned funds here. And somehow even an active pro-European policy hasn't been giving us results lately. The date of the negotiations is asked, and the time of entry into full membership is already being discussed in 2011 and even in 2013. It would also highlight a commitment that the government did not respect. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. In addition to the half-yearly and annual report on the implementation of the budget, the Government is required to report to the Parliament on the approved payment delays, i.e. the periodical repayments of outstanding public fees. We find that the Government has not carried out this obligation, so we ask that we get this report and the explanation by just being opposed to such a provision in the Budgetary Act so that there can be a postponement of the payment of taxes and other public taxes. Some items of implementation of the state budget will be discussed in more detail by colleagues and colleagues from my Club, and on behalf of the SDP Club, they can establish the following objectives that the 2004 state budget should provide, we see that they are not being realised, the government is not taking additional measures for enhanced development but, in addition to the debate in the Croatian Parliament, signed the Memorandum with the IMF, which we have also assessed in the debate harmful to Croatia because it slows down the development, sale of property in the short term and has a long-term impact on the standard of citizens. The reasons that motivated us not to support the 2004 State budget further motivates us to vote against the adoption of the State budget report itself for the first half of 2004.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-17-0.u25400	Thank you. Minister of Finance Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-17-0.u25401	Thank you, Mr. President. So for the sake of the Croatian public, the agreement with the International Monetary Fund was signed, i.e. the board accepted it 4. 8. and we are talking about the report on the implementation of the budget for the first six months then I do not see in what context the implementation of this budget is for the first six months with the Agreement with the International Monetary Fund. Negotiations with the International Monetary Fund began practically in the 5th month, but I did not purposely want to mention the problem of the 2003 deficit, but as a representative of the government given a number of innuendos that were brought here, I have to answer some things, so now it is not finally clear after the 2005 draft budget that this government will not reduce road construction funds, is it, if proposed this year, 7 billion, if it was last year, then I do not see how this government is reducing it. As for what is stated in the stand by the arrangement, it does not apply to the first six months, I repeat, we said we will not waste as irresponsibly as you have done, you have spent past the decision of this House of High Billion and 600 million in road construction, you have had the courage to come before this High House to increase the financial plan of the Croatian highways by billions and 600 million kunas and that this means increasing the deficit of 0.8% and that you will not fulfil the criteria that you have proposed. So you won't say that in the first six months of this year nearly 2 billion unpaid bills you left, you can't say that unpaid Christmases, and salaries to judges in the Croatian judiciary are something that isn't paid, it can be documented, you didn't pay it at 12 months it was paid in the 1st month of this year. So let's look the facts in the eyes. Exactly. So, as far as Croatian highways are concerned, I repeat, it was passed past this High House, the change of income and expenditure plans, not the controversial works that were made in the 11th and 12th months, everyone knows what the dynamics of these works were, however, the 800 million that were made long before but, at the same time, in the amendments to the IMF memos in the 7th month, reduced the expenditure on 700 million kuna highways to increase them in the 11th month, so that's what the roads and agreements with the IMF are all about, I'm just repeating the agreement with the IMF was signed two months after the report we talk about and also as regards the Croatian Railways. Take a look at the 2003 budget report, according to what you entered into that budget, you invested 900 million in Croatian railways in 2003, and we propose 2004. 2 billion and 800 and you with 900 million could do wonders and we with 2 billion and 800 can't do anything, it's just fantastic. But there's something that's symptomatic for the last government, which is a secret deficit policy, and it's great to listen to some colleagues today who talk about developmental deficit policy, yes, but why then you've been doing a 2004 deficit projection at 3.8%, so one government with a 3.8% deficit can do anything, and the other government with a 4.5 deficit can't do anything. It may be possible if expenditure is not recorded in the budget, if a covert deficit policy is conducted, if certain expenditure is spent and one question is asked, to whom it was in the interest of the HH loan that today you have a billion kuna of spare parts, various materials, a material loan that cannot be installed anywhere. Since credit debt, parallel material credit and financial credit debt were not planned, the financial credit debt which will guarantee that these spare parts can be installed, which is all that had to be paid out of the 2004 budget in the first 6 months. 900 million short-term loans, which were not shown in the 2003 budget, were entered in the deficit in 2003, however, have a loan of 500 million kuna in 2002 plus 470 million for reconstructions not recorded in the 2003 deficit that were paid in the first 6 months of this year and the burden of the deficit in 2004, and the cost and economic effects of that cost were incurred in 2002. So, we need to talk about this, not about things that have nothing to do with it, and I repeat for the sake of the Croatian public, an agreement with the International Monetary Fund that we discussed 15 days ago in this House, has nothing to do with the execution for the first six months because this agreement was signed 4. 8th but I repeat, that in the 7th month under your 2003 agreement, a public proposal not discussed in this House of Commons can be reduced by 700 million and primarily in road construction by justifying that works will not be carried out due to poor winter and, at the same time, two months after that, the Croatian government and the Supervisory Board decide to increase the income and expenditure plan and the construction plan by a billion and 600 million kuna. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-17-0.u25402	Thank you. Club of representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community, a respected representative of Šima Prtnječa.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-17-0.u25403	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. HDZ has supported and will support this report, HDZ looks optimistic on Croatia's future, and the reasons why it looks at it allow us to take it out briefly. This Report is the first Report of the new Croatian Government, a report for the first six months characteristic of many things because it was done after the establishment of this high house in late December and after the election of the government and the first provisional budget made for the first quarter of this year. I will remind the technique of how it is done, when it is not passed, then the previous year is divided with its budget structure by four and 25%, respectively, of the budget from the previous year. These are the frameworks in which it was realized and worked in the first three months. After that, the state budget was adopted to go somewhere in July and to rebalancing, which also increased revenues and expenditures which slowed something down compared to the previous year. In these frameworks as well as in the conditions of assessing the seasonal trends of certain trends in the economy such as negative impacts in the first quarter of the year which are otherwise in certain economic activities but are therefore intensified in the summer months such as the impact of the tourist season of course in all incomes and other indicators such as the impact in agriculture and many other seasonal activities, of course that construction is most active and can carry out the most jobs in the summer months. In these conditions and respecting certain reasons for the adoption of the legislative rules which followed during the summer and now in the autumn which, of course, affected the realization of certain positions from the budget that have not been implemented in those 6 months. What is this first semester's real business report will be at the end of the year when all this year will be able to compete with the previous year but from the trends that we already have for the nine months that have been processed we can say with certainty that most of that budget that the rebalancing is planned will also be achieved in revenue but also in those expenditures that are significant and for which the Government has defined itself at the beginning of this year. The main objective of macroeconomic stabilisation in this year and the beginning of realization in the first 6 months refers to some of the trends that I have recently particularly apostropheded here in the previous year's report of the CNB, of course on purpose for the reasons why certain economic and other trends are time-consuming, they are not an event for one day but in the process that is happening. So here's why I'm continuing a brief analysis of what's actually going on because this is the state of 1.1-30th June, hence the state of 1.1th, 1st January and final state, as far as possible in this time. I remind you that gross national income, here now we can get the data in six months because the data was 5, to estimate that it's about 4 and a half, if or, and before it was 4.2, come on or 3, I don't have the exact data, so I'm allowing a little difference. But if in the previous year there was a tendency of falling from that darkness, therefore it is a tendency that continued safely in the first quarter and its impact in this period. Construction, construction, otherwise, was the most affected by the consumption and increase in construction in the previous year, but this year it recorded a rate of around 8.9% of physical volume or somewhere almost 9% compared to the same observed period in the previous year. Tourism as a work, of course in this construction and now participates infrastructure in the largest part and housing building of the fund, residential construction as another significant aggregate in the segment. Tourism is estimated for the first 6 months, although trends have changed significantly during the summer that it was 10% higher than in the observed period of the previous year. Thus, it is also a positive trend as naturally as possible to influence it in society. In the last year, we had either the state of 1.1, found a state somewhere around $24 and a few billion in debt, with the fact that the biggest responsibility was in the last year. What was the basic task? Slow down the growth of that debt. Of course, it cannot be stopped or suspended in the first six months, but it already shows a tendency and a reduction. And in those six months, a stabilisation of already external debt was made so that it would not have a galloping growth that tended to be in the previous period. One data on the domestic market which may also be an assessment but which is the movement from the previous period was the expansion of credit growth in previous periods and already the stabilisation of that credit growth, one which is significant for personal consumption and was generated from other sources, i.e. by lending which has its cycle then in foreign debt. We have a growth trend, one time at the beginning of the year, industrial production declines from the previous year, and then we already have a growth trend in industrial production that continues and we expect it to be fully and fully implemented by the end of the year. We also have an increase in retail trade, which is in one part, even with 1.6%, but a real increase compared to the previous period. One thing, here's what we heard at the beginning, and it's probably going to be debated a lot today, and these were the commitments passed down in the previous year. I'm only going to say two figures for a consolidated state deficit that was 6.3% and that deficit is finally stabilised. Is it 4 and a half, 4.2 or how much, but from the tendency of high growth, back to stable movement, this already shows data, as well as data of deficits or breakthroughs, or how we want in the structure of highways, HZs and reconstructions that have the most affected this structure of the overall consolidated deficit. Therefore, macroeconomic stabilisation as the primary objective of this government can be said through these data, several of these indicators, that at this point it is done, and especially with certainty at the end of the year that all macroeconomic movements that are relevant to the stability of the state will be fully stabilised, of course, in all their elements. Now, very briefly through the data, which is, what data points to certain trends and why, according to our assessment, there have been some deviations within that. The revenues were achieved around 45% with 5.9% or almost 6% higher than in the same period of the previous year. So, by 6%, they're bigger than the previous year, and we'll be estimating the end of the year when it comes. In particular, income from assets, profit taxes, property taxes, profit taxes, income taxes, tends to fall. Why? He's making a lot of relief. So we're either going to have a relief or we're going to have a tendency to grow or stabilise that income. The trend of retention or even decline or mild growth lately comes from excise duties on oil and tobacco, and already in the introduction, I looked back at why we estimate that these tendencies are the way they are. In expenditures, expenditure was achieved, total expenditure was achieved at 49.2% which is approximately 9.5% higher than in the same period of the previous year. But why? At the end of last year, that is, in October, there was a famous signing of collective agreements, which was at the time obviously in office of the elections, but the charges and results came this year. That's exactly the result and the charges we've had in this year about 51% higher, salary expenses and all the costs resulting from such collective agreements. So they're signed at the end of the year, but the charge follows now. This should therefore also be answered in this year by making either higher revenues or by correcting other costs. Material expenditures were reached by around 46.5% and a significant increase in social benefits, which are either compensation, which increased by 11% compared to the same period in the last year. Subsidies have also increased, especially agricultural subsidies. Why? The commitments made in the previous year of nearly 800 million resulted in a trend this year of exceptional growth to a level of 89%. Of course, it is not possible to expect to grow at that base at the end of the year at such a rate or such a trend in teaching as this would mean probably redistributing from other positions. Incomes, incomes may not be particularly highlighted in detail, here's the VAT, just to point out that VAT, however stabilised revenues compared to it, but that they grew somewhere around 7.8% in the amount of the previous year in those 6 months. For excise duties we have already said, but although they tend to increase slightly, they are 2% higher than in the previous year for the same period. Social contributions also tend to grow, and they are about 8.5% higher than they were in the previous year. And it is, of course, confirmed that all those stories about this catastrophic situation in that particular sector, when they compete with the same period in the previous year, continue a slightly different trend. I conclude very briefly that the report in the extra budget funds also shows the same tendency or similar trend, similar to that in the budget and that, according to our assessment, there will be no more serious problems in all of them and will be realised in the frameworks foreseen by the end of the year. And including all these indicators and trends in the movement of particularly new available data, which were the basis as an estimate of the budget-making base in the following year, show an optimistic trend with a rise and increase in its income structure compared to the period at the beginning of the year, and that these synergistic effects of such trends will show the stabilisation of public finances in society, thus stabilising the full macroeconomic environment with further increase in exports and increasing exports to the import of coverage, thus also the need for reduction and intervention in debt. We estimate that these tendencies are shown positively and that we accept them. And on the next report, we'll be able to show even better results within these movements this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-17-0.u25404	Thank you. Club IDS Honorable representative Damir Cain, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-17-0.u25405	Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor, Mr. Secretary, The IDS didn't vote for the 2004 budget, so then we have no reason to support this report. Second of all, I'm going to make the most of it, regardless of what it is to be a matter of technique, most of all, I'm going to settle for that famous state guarantee. Not so much for a recent debate about Lentz being held in this assembly, as for the fact that he makes about 10% of the state guarantees a year. But while I'm at this Lance, I'm just going to repeat that some government doesn't raise hands from the same, that there are still some 500 workers working there, and no matter how promising 500 workers are a figure that can't be ignored as the fate of Lance's cooperatives has been ignored. Why? Because these 500 workers have their own families, and then somehow we get to 1500, 2,000 people who are gravitating that system. Just as the state guarantees are being helped by shipbuilding, agriculture, yesterday or the day before yesterday in the hotel, the day before yesterday for private Agrokor, let them think carefully, I was called yesterday by some people from Varazdin, which is to do with Vartex, because this company 86 years of long history at this time has about 4 thousand employees. Second, for 2004, more precisely in the first half, the legal guarantees amounting to 2 billion kuna 669 million were issued. On page 3, it states that the censures were issued to finance the construction of the shipyard in delivery, and according to the shipbuilding sites 3. May Rijeka, Brodotrogir Trogir, and Brodosplit Split in favour of foreign and domestic banks, I almost don't have the exact information, but I guess cca billion kuna. I can see there's no mention of an Oilman here, and that's good. The guarantee stock determined by an amount of 553,8 million kuna, means another protest is being made in this country about 10% of the guarantees issued. In the period from 1.1 to 30.6. In 2004, commitments from the 276,8 million kuna guarantee reserve were paid for commitments made before 2004. By the end of 2002, agricultural companies received guarantees on loans worth a billion and 200 million kuna, and the state paid more than 900 million kuna out of these billions and 200 million kuna in the end. Due to shipbuilding, the state has paid about 450 million kuna plus cca some 400 as much as it will have to because of the business collapse of Viktor Lenco. Because of tourism, not Istrian, 250 million kunas of these guarantees were paid in 2003 alone. And what am I saying? That without these guarantees, unfortunately we won't be able to make it into the future. Secondly, Croatia on the domestic market can borrow a loan according to these documents of 18 billion 495 million kuna. That's almost every fourth budget kuna. It says enough that opportunities in the Republic of Croatia are still complicated. I don't envy even the minister of finance in a position that behaves, he has to reduce clearly that foreign debt addiction, which he rested on in 2003 when the country was in charge of more than 10 billion dollars, and we all want to make it clear that the gross product is growing at last year's rate. Now, that can't go. Or/or. The finance ministry should reduce the deficit from 6.3% to 4.5% this year. And we all clearly ask again to increase public spending, wages in the public sector, pensions, social, municipal consumption, etc. E can't do both. Or deficit, which would be disastrous if you grew up. Or public spending. Either external debt, or growth of gross social product, although development in this country was largely based on external borrowing. On the other hand, Croatia has reached the limit of over-indebtedness, cca 79% of gross social product in some months in dollars is slightly above 80%. Croatia is becoming a highly-indebted country. Why? In 2000, we got rid of ourselves, I'm not going to say formal, but one real isolation is certain that people wanted to live better, it's clearly legitimate, it's always legitimate, and they're given, "debt," you spend, you import. This import and debt life was one of the reasons among other rapid growth of the gross social product. After five years of war, five years of one isolation, I believe the citizens deserve it. However, it must be contained at some point. Where's the exit? According to us at the IDS Club in foreign capital. Either he comes to Croatia or our citizens will come to that capital in the world. There's no third. We will not do anything, and on the other hand, we will do everything clearly. We want pensions that's legitimate, wages, roads, I don't know the shipyard that's going to run the state, etc., we want to do as much as we want, and it's also legitimate, but it can't go any further. The second thing to note is that the external debt at this point exceeded $26 billion. He's $6,000 per capita today. Good thing he's more structured than the Yugoslav one. By the end of the year, he might be over 27 billion dollars. By the end of the term of office, the government's foreign debt could be between $33 billion and $35 billion or about $8000 per capita. There's no need to blame anyone for that. Unfortunately, I'm afraid the government can't keep an external debt overnight without radically jeopardizing our standard. It's wrong, if we're going to say we're in opposition to that, we're not being held accountable. Perhaps that is why we are co-responsible, because there is 6% unemployment there, the coverage of imports-exports 100%, we have twice the gross product of the Croatian Spring. But the responsibility for the state of the country is on everyone. And any disturbance I fear will hit to the most extent those who have managed to take care of their fragile economy. That sounds absurd, but I'm afraid that's the case. The growth of 4.2% in the first term according to these tables is I dare say above expectations. Realistically, these documents will bring about a growth of around 3.7%. If 3.7%, it's clearly small and the question is how to increase it, how to stimulate that growth. By means of its means, a clear state cannot, abroad, be in debt. There's no longer any debt to the bank abroad. I can do business, she won't go on forever, maybe another month until the 2005 local elections. What after that? Either we draw the capital or we get black written. We're all declared for it. It's really making the climate that we're all against it. And to make a joke when the development of Croatia seems to be learning from China or really Croatia should learn from a communist country. Communism in ex-Yugoslavia brought down China's communist existence over foreign capital, which is offered by its party. I, who have never been to a Communist party, was the last to advocate communism in Croatia. On the side that self-government had some good solutions, but I repeat, either the capital will come to Croatia or the citizens of Croatia will go after the capital in the world. And the best example is our drivers who can service their credit obligations, etc. They're going the way of Iraq. Everywhere in Western Europe, elections are being held in a way that promises to bring more capital into the country. We do everything the other way around, and I'm afraid in the end, all of us are getting tired and unreal promises and our bickering. Yes, but on the other hand, clearly citizens expect to be told the truth. I know none of them are willing to give up anything, everyone expects it from the other one, but we're all gonna have to give up a lot just to get past these local elections. Clearly, our tycoons won't, they're a story to themselves, they've created their systems, they'll have to anyway, and the state will cover them if they get into trouble. But I say Croatia has a chance to attract capital from the side. If we get him, we'll get away with it. If we don't get it, we'll stagnate. Anything else can come into question, and new schools and highways and new hospitals and new jobs, and wages etc. In 2004, revenues rose by 5.9%. In 2004, tax revenues increased by 4.4% but in 2004, income based on profit tax fell by 3.8% and income tax. The property tax is significantly higher by as much as 28.1%, which will say that the purchase of real estate in the Republic of Croatia is probably something but not very much bought by foreigners, and if they are buying it from our citizens and what is most important because it is the highest VAT tax growing in the period 1.1-30.6. by 7.8% compared to 2003. So there's room but now I'm paraphrasing Mr. Lovrinčević and I've been talking about it for the past ten minutes. Croatia remains only a growth of investments on the non-indebted basis, which is either a direct foreign investment or a capital that will come according to strategic bases, and that is the point. However, I do not have time, although the budget is well charged. Outside of budget funds, that pension or Croatian Institute of Health Insurance is even better emptied or spent. The Peace Fund spent 6.1% more than 2003 for the first six months. When pensions are due, there's really a question. If this is the situation in the pension system, who will ensure that with 1.1.2005 the average pension is 50% of the average salary. It's just impossible. It just can't be done. At the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance, it is obvious that in this system the state saves itself, which perhaps I dare say bad. And why is that? Because then the medical treatment relative to one of the existing standards goes down or down. It's being saved, but the question is, how long and how far can it be saved? Croatian Health and here we are all the most sensitive especially when it comes to our loved ones must be as much on one European standard. Clearly, it costs, clearly that the country cannot copy and we do not have some magic wand, but we still need to enable people to have such decent health insurance. For the end of my court, Croatia does not have much choice. Either the capital will come into this country or our citizens will go after that capital into the world. All we have left is some spilling from the hollow to the blank. And I claim that Croatia has a chance as well as all other countries of transition that are ahead of us but we must at least reach a consensus on some issues. It doesn't matter if it's neighbors in the meantime, The Hague, the European Union, budget projections for three, four years, foreign capital entry into development functions, etc. I think that's the point. Everything else is one political larpurlatism, clearly unless someone's fundamental freedoms are threatened because it's always easier to spend than it is to spend the same amount of time being created. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-17-0.u25406	Thank you. The HSS Club is a respected representative of Zeljko Pecek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-17-0.u25407	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! It is interesting that we here are quite uninterested in discussing the implementation of the budget that the minister in the opening statement as well as we obviously as clubs and the committees have not shown too much interest. The minister was only a little bit more passionate to accuse the former government, which is probably the cause of such a poor budget execution. There's a little bit more passion spilled so the accent was placed on that part. However, the fundamental question that we here have to discuss when we talk about executing whether this is what the minister was telling us about, in the introduction, about export growth of 16%, employment below 300 thousand, foreign debt stopped, the best tourist season. Is it really a continuation of the trend, inert or result of this execution of the state budget that is ahead of us? Of course, there we need to talk about the rate of development of 3.8% which is also either the result of the inert or the result of the poor execution. What confuses me lately, the last days are posters I watch when I ride around Croatia, TV videos I see on TV, then in the press ads where I actually read messages about how successful we are and how that result of course can be another reason besides this execution. However, we could also read on these posters when we talk about the most benign, bought and paid wheat. We could read in 99, the wheat was bought but was paid in 2000 in March when the new coalition government arrived. We could also read the external debt was halted but we're increasing the internal debt, we're issuing bonds worth 5.5%, and next year we can expect more interest growth for both entrepreneurship and citizens. Because if the state pays 5.5% then the entrepreneur certainly won't be able to win if he's not in the A group interest below 8.9 and even 10%. And do we actually reduce exposure if we don't borrow from outside but from domestic banks that are actually owned abroad because we know that only 5% of Croatia's financial cake and credit cake are controlled by domestic banks. That's the kind of message I could get a lot of, and I'm surprised to hear that we're having the best tourist season ever. So should we have a different tourist season after all those investments that we made on the highways with the subsidisation of transport by islands and concrete budget investments that were in the tourist season. However, the real question is which we must answer here whether we have a less effective government, whether the above trends are the result of the inert or the effectiveness of the programme and of course the realization of this budget? For that part, of course, the most important economy. Mr. Minister was saying that stand by has no impact on the implementation of the budget. However, I will remind those already known things that stand by the organization of HBOR, 100m euros in debt and defended HBOR 200m kuna in placements of course for domestic entrepreneurship because the only Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development was better monitored by domestic entrepreneurs and especially in exports. The result is the suspension of lending activities, as a result of which we stopped following exporters in the second half of the year. And of course because of another detail in the implementation of the budget because we planned to subsidise interest on loans to exporters in this year less money than in previous ones. For completely unknown reasons, 240 million kuna has been allocated during the former coalition government to track exporters through interest subsidies and 165 million we have in this rebalan budget that we of course spent all 165 million in the first half of this year and exporters can no longer obtain credit. These are the facts we need to talk about. HBOR was mainly followed by a large sector or a large economy and had, however, a successful credit line that was accompanied by a small economy. I'll remind you in three years over five billion kunas is placed in a small economy. Of course, exports were also followed, exporters in the small economy were also followed. 620 million kunas were given only to exporters and 820 million kunas for those who were engaged in small tourism, who developed competitiveness, who finally gave a good share of the results in this development of tourism. Do you know how much credit has been granted for the first six months of this year, for small entrepreneurs? Not a single lip. Now, that's the truth about doing this calculation. That's exactly what I'm looking for. What makes any lip and five billion kunas over the last few years? Of course, there are no such answers because we are talking superficially, we are saying that the former government was guilty of all of this, and of course we want to ignore what is written here in the materials called execution. We can see in the materials that there are 8 million and 700 million kuna reserved in the Ministry of the Economy of Export Encouragement. Only 10 thousand kunas were spent and likely on some of the daily and travel expenses. However, of course we couldn't transfer this money to the HBOR where it was missing to subsidize interest. We could've but we didn't see it and we didn't do it. So 8 million kunas still stand untapped today. We also have a Fund for the Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities at the position of the Ministry of Economy. When we talk about employment and when we say we could have even better trends. 21 million kuna in that position, cost zero. We haven't spent a single lip to increase the employment of disabled people. Also in the positions of the Ministry of Economy for Youth Employment, when we talk about employment. 2 million 700 thousand kuna in the budget, the cost known, we haven't spent a single dime. What we haven't solved quality enough as well as us as the former government and not solving is also the current state support for restructuring in the economy. It has been seen that it is also necessary to improve the sector and 22 million kuna has been allocated in the budget for this year. The execution, of course, I don't even need to mention zero. We didn't give a zero to restructure the economy. Not even a lip. And we listen to a lot of problems every day. It's from the textile branch here today. We know we don't have the best woodbrush. However, in spite of the reservations in the positions, we did not spend a single kuna on their restructuring. And in the positions of the Ministry of Economy we also have reserved money for competitiveness, development of competitiveness and export orientation of the Croatian industry of EUR million 750 thousand for the first 6 months we also haven't spent a drop. Special, special, treatment is obvious to a small economy in this budget execution and this at first glance looks amazing what we read about execution, which is from 165 million kuna as reserved for the promotion and development of craftsmanship and small economy is spent only 17 million kuna. Of which 11 million kuna for development and 6 million kuna for wages and material costs. We actually spent 10% of what we needed to develop a small economy. This budget, or execution, looks like potatoes to us in a small economy if I speak figuratively. Better put it on, like it's from the Ministry of Agriculture, everywhere they're zero. It's gonna be tiring and reading, but I'm just going to point out that we haven't spent a single zero on a local 7 million kuna loan. For the entrepreneurship zones I watch every day on 55 million kuna television, we haven't even given anyone lipo. For the first six months of women, young, entrepreneurs, we haven't given any incentive. The cooperative sector does not differ at all, nor has it received a kuna to encourage the development of cooperatives, for the establishment of new, for the organisation of the cooperative system, for the promotion of student cooperatives. Professional literature in entrepreneurship also zero, for innovation system of quality zero, master's workshop for the tourism sector we have the only spending slightly more quality than 45% that pops up here in the implementation of the budget but it's actually the result of previous contracts so they have to respect and actually subsidize interest on loans. For performances at fairs to track exporters also for a small zero economy. We haven't helped with any of the center's private entrepreneurs, entrepreneurs' incubators, and not a single lip. Master's exams, encouraging domestic production of entrepreneurship to be directed export. And in fact, I'd be too boring to pick up all the programs that have 30 and something and everything in two, three programs have been spent symbolically several thousand to several hundred thousand kunas. It is similar in the recapitulation for a small economy in the position of subsidies to farmers, craftsmen, small and medium-sized entrepreneurs where 36 million and 900 thousand kuna are reserved. Realization zero. At the Ministry of Finance, I pulled out only one page even though of course I could do more for other ministries and I noticed that for the first six months we had not paid a kuna from the reservation even though we witnessed daily damages to the elemental today, and of course there were for the first six months. For unknown reasons, however, we have not singled out lip for these purposes. Interestingly, the Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity, which spent only 2 million kunas or below 10% for the employment of Croatian defenders of 30 million kuna. But here we keep our mouths shut. The orthopedic and other medical aids for Croatian military disableds spent only 17% of planned for this year. Additional maternity leave spent only 22%. Alimony fund of 20 million kunas has not been spent on a single lip. To improve the quality of family life and the development of family services 1%. Social participation of young people to encourage 5%. Projects for multi-member families also 0%. There would be a lot to list here, but I wouldn't want to be hypocritical and stress these positions, but I believe that we all have to give one basic answer together. Could we have been better and more efficient in the implementation of the budget and whether it is necessary to reduce the revenues of the state budget because it is generally known that the government is inefficient. Let us leave more taxes and contributions to the economy and to them to deal with development because apparently the state administration is doing it in failure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-17-0.u25408	Thank you very much. Minister of Finance Shuker, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-17-0.u25409	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, so listening to the esteemed representative of Pacek turns out that everything good in this country is a credit to the former government, and all incompetence and ignorance is at the head of this government. I'd just like to say one so notorious truth that's going through the public eye that last year the public debt stagnated, that it didn't grow. He didn't grow up for the simple reason that one part of the deficit, at least the one they showed up, financed from the sale of INA. And you know that according to the Budget Law, and according to the provisions, the privatisation funds were to be spent in another way. But there's another truth, and I'm here asking you questions publicly. Show me where in the budget you have that you invest 5 billion kuna in a small economy? At what cost is the budget position? It should be said that with small funds from the Ministry of Entrepreneurship and large funds units of local self-government multiplied by 20, you have reached these 5 billion with business banks. And I think that's true. But if what you claim to be true is that you invested in a 5 billion kuna economy last year, then I'd like to ask you nicely to show me the position where that position is located? She's doing a clean job for the Croatian public. But talking this kind of information about who it suits. The second thing, the agreement with the International Monetary Fund was signed on 4.8. and the restriction on HABOR's borrowing has nothing to do with what you said. And especially not with the 30.6th of this, doing the budget with the 30.6. as you speak. You were also talking about inciting exports. Well, in the first six months, the incentive to export has been completely completed. But here we are talking about data that are simply incomparable, data that is impossible to compare and praise. You claim that all economic movements, all the positive results are your policies. Unbelievable. But all indicators show that macroeconomic trends in the second half of 2003 had a downward trajectory compared to the first six months of 2003. So if that were the result of your policy then that downward path would continue. She wouldn't stop in the first and second months and have a growth trend. These are macroeconomic indicators you can't ignore. So you can't say that all these positive macroeconomic indicators are the result of politics. However, there is something else to be said here for the sake of the Croatian public. What are the results and macroeconomic indicators of the $8 billion increase in external debt in 2003? What are the indicators? The other thing is, you've led to the fact that this country doesn't have a lot of opportunities anymore as far as external borrowing and another notorious untruth. No interest was raised in Croatia. And whoever says that the government's decision to be in charge of the domestic market and to refinance old debts and cover deficits on the domestic money market clearly shows what policy the last government was. Inability and unwillingness to develop the capital market in the Republic of Croatia. Without the development of the capital market in Croatia, without the possibility for Croatian citizens who currently have over EUR 10 billion in foreign exchange savings in business banks to invest money via the capital market. We have one frozen capital. And let's not twist the thesis. So someone decides to be in charge of the domestic market for paying someone interest. Document which interest increased in 2004 compared to 2003. So the second thing, we won't admit that the past two, three years in 2004 is a time of historically low interest rates. Interest rates that haven't been in the last 20 years. This has nothing to do with the state of Croatia. It's just a reflex in Croatia. But there's something else. By issuing EURO bonds to Croatia in the 4th month, Croatia achieved historically low interest on the borrowing of the Republic of Croatia. But no one will say that, of course, but it is the result of the position, the international position of the Republic of Croatia. This is the result of the foreign political achievements of this Government of the Republic of Croatia. That's the result of a positive avis. This is the result of Croatia getting an invitation to join the European Union. That's the result. And the credit rating of Croatia at the time when the date of the negotiations is set and when Croatia becomes an official member of, when official negotiations start, it will increase. Just like he was with the Slovenians. Slovenians have had a credit rating for 9 years that was completely identical. But I'm saying talk about the data that's incomparable and go say that for the first six months, there's no pay-off for the elemental accidents. Well, you know very well how the funds for the elemental accidents pay off. That there's a parliamentary commission, but you know as well as I do how you've been paying them off while you've been in government. It's also very important, very same, very interesting so that as a representative of the former government you don't know about all those large bills that haven't been paid. You don't know that this year the government is due to repay 470 million loans that HABOR spent in 2002 for reconstruction, not recorded in the Budget. Probably the 470 million we don't have to pay for this year, and we could invest them in the economy. However, it is very important that loans were not recorded at the time when they had an economic effect. It's very important why the deficit binds in such a way? Because that year that loan was spent, that year it has an economic effect. There is no economic effect in two or three years, it may have a later effect, but the real economic effect has at the moment it is invested. And that's why the deficit according to the GFS method and the modified method that this government has signed with the IMF is recorded like that. But the secret deficit policy, not showing the expenditure at the moments when they were created, that's the policy you've raised your hand for, and that's a policy that this government won't surely support. Secondly, you forgot that the first three months of functioning of all the users of the state budget were according to a decision on temporary financing, and you know well that the decision on temporary financing did not cover 60% of the costs needed for the first three months. Also those strong incentives in agriculture that have not been paid and will likely one day come to the truth where 1% of the agricultural reform funds have gone.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-17-0.u25410	Thank you very much. I am reporting that, in accordance with Article 207, it is time for the application for a 10-minute hearing on this agenda point. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative Željko Pecek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-17-0.u25411	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Minister Shuker was saying something I didn't say, so I'm correcting it in that sense. I said that interest rates will grow in Croatia because Croatia owes at a rate of 5.5% and we'll see that, Mr. Minister, so I'll call you to apologize if I'm right and you're wrong. A report on 5 billion kuna spent on a small economy can be found in the government and you can get it from business banks, so please read it. And I'm asking you not to deny HBOR because you, as the Ministry of Finance, are in charge of that HBOR twice 50 million kuna. Of course they weren't for the economy. You're in charge of the Minister and I can give it to you right now, because I have a report from HBOR saying the Ministry of Finance took a short-term loan twice to 50 million kuna to HBOR. Of course, there's money for the ministry, but for the economy, no. The loans are being postponed and they don't approve because of that, because of the stand-by and your policy.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-17-0.u25412	Dear Representative Jozo Radoš on behalf of the Club LIBRE.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-17-0.u25413	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. According to this budget, it's as if we have two states, as if we have two types of state institutions, so one institution spends money according to plan or below plan, and others spend money significantly above plan. But first, I will look at the most important provision of this budget, which is the fact that the revenues in the budget are 44.9%, so 5% of the budget revenue is less than planned, and then the question is, how are we going to talk now about the new budget for next year, how are we going to achieve budget gains, that is, the growth of tax revenues by about 10 percent in the plan if the first half of this year, the tax revenues are being subdued somewhere around 5%, and this really raises the question of sustainability of the budget, but we will see about that, a fast year goes by. But when we talk about two types of institutions in this country, then we should say that business expenditure is 49, and employee expenditure is 51%, which means about 50%, which is fine. Of course, it's wrong to see that incomes are 4% lower, but when you look at how these expenditures are allocated, you really wonder what kind of state we live in, or how that budget is planned. So the Croatian Parliament spent 41%, the President of the Republic 36%, the Government of the Republic 43%, and the Ministry of Justice only 29% of the estimated revenue, the estimated expenditure. At the same time, the Ministry of Defence spends 57%, the Croatian Land Army as much as 62.42%, and the expenditures for employees grow at the Anti-intelligence Agency by 59%, i.e. 59%, while in the Government are 45%, in the Office of Presidents, while the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry and Water Economy is only 39%. So the full 20% difference between the expenditure of individual institutions of this country that speaks or budgets, or their budgets aren't well planned or something happened that we don't know. How can employee expenditures move in relation to plus-minus 10%. Anti-intelligence agency 59% and government 45%. What happened? Whether there was an increase in the anti-intelligence agency or a reduction in the government's services. Probably neither. How did the pay change happen? I guess we should know that in the Croatian Parliament, as far as I know, it's not the information the Parliament has. It's obviously some kind of very strange or political planning or policy implementation. But I think it's just as problematic or even more problematic, even though it doesn't have so many serious consequences as a fall in the incomes of the state budget from taxes, especially since some institutions have hardly worked. For example, the Public Procurement Office and the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures, two very important institutions that should contribute to reducing corruption in this country, and we know that, according to the Corruption Index last year, we have increased compared to the previous period, spent only 8.28% and 6.79% respectively. What are these two institutions doing? If they are already formed, these institutions should do something. Apparently, it was just that the heads of these institutions or some of the biggest bodies had become employed that they were getting paid, and now they're calming down. Half a year, then, these institutions did not spend 10% of the funds they were intended for them. The same is the issue with some other institutions, such as the Gender Equality Office, which spent only 6.85% of those revenues that, those expenditures that were to be spent throughout the year, but of course, they are even more indicative of those data that say that some institutions and some programmes have not spent anything at all. For example, the State Nature Protection Department spent 0%. The project reforming education in which we so swear as something important, which will draw this country out, in the past half of the year the implementation of this budget has been spent 0%. But apparently some institutions are not doing their job, so it seems to be true that logic from the beginning of our local self - government when some chiefs thought they were successful leaders if they did not spend the budget. So obviously these institutions do not work properly or are not planned properly, therefore both are not well and certainly things should be changed. But that's why the Public Relations Office of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which spent 11.42% of the campaign these days. In that department of service, promotions and information somewhere around two and a half billion kunas, and that's this money that we see today being spent, jumbo posters, TV videos, newspaper ads. But all probably way above two and a half million kunas. One who knows something about these campaigns and the campaign must have just begun, she's certainly targeted to hit the presidential election. And the party candidate of one side of the ruling coalition, that's true, and there's no promotion of one web. So it's a waste of state money for foreign purposes. With what counterpart Pecek said, some of the results of that government are actually the fruit of the work of the previous government. As an official candidate, Croatia is an official candidate for the European Union. To the most extent, this is the result of the work of the former government, so the new government that has this should also not be giving rise to it. Not to mention that the best tourist season and the decline of unemployment in Croatia is also a fruit of the former government's work. This government will be able to boast with such results in this way next year. The next tourist season, the continuation of unemployment, and good results in negotiations with the European Union, will be the results of the government's work. What is referred to as the results of this government's work, the greatest measure is actually the fruit of the momentum of the process that is happening. And I can't be considered the results of this government's work. And not to mention that the growth of external debt is not correct. That's just not true. The foreign debt has ceased to grow, and what could possibly be considered a stagnation of this debt is the fruit of the borrowing fact on our internal market, which should be commended. If it isn't, we're borrowing from the so-called. domestic banks that are actually the same in foreign ownership. Thus, this is an example of how state money is spent in a very, very difficult way and of course it should be warned in this regard. But I would especially like to point out here the question of the work of the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship. That's what my colleague Pacek was talking about. This ministry in the department of crafts and small and medium enterprises spent 0% on subsidies to farmers in craftsmen. Not a single lip in the last half year. And equally on that same segment, crafts and small and medium-sized capital aid enterprise within the state 0%. Only current donations in that segment went to only 24.72%. These are data that also say that on this very important segment which only can, along with the education of the long-term discipline of the Republic of Croatia, almost nothing is done. Apparently, the projects of the former government have been stopped. It also shouldn't be a trend at least not so much. And new projects of the new leadership of the ministry, which is therefore in charge of crafts, have no small and medium-sized entrepreneurship. And this data, it's very large amounts, it's not just a few million dollars, it's a hundred million kunas that are foreseen in the budget of the Republic of Croatia. To stimulate the development of crafts, small and medium entrepreneurship, and it was spent all together looking cumulatively at these several 0% so a total of around 10 percent. And in a country that takes care of that important segment, that would be enough to raise the question of trust to the minister, who is not in the course of half a year to spend a drop of such important budget items. Ministry of Science, Education and Sports. Which is referred to as a great priority to this country, of course, you will be speaking tomorrow when it comes to the budget. It was also not celebrated in spending money on very important projects. National information infrastructure 26%, technological research and development activities where the future of the country should rest and join similar activities in the world 23%. And international research and technical cooperation is only 10%. What's done in that ministry is done in these important segments. It's obviously the same model if what I was saying before, and that means it's important to sit in the chair, get your salary, and then we'll move on easy. How it can be allowed that in such a continuous activity as international scientific and technical cooperation that does not depend on this or that government, which is not a matter of some cost at some age of year, but the costs that should last throughout the year are continuously spent only 10% in half a year. Something about the ministry's work is also wrong, especially in these very important segments. And of course the Ministry of Health and Social Care joins in all of this. So that's what business facilities are all about, and it's probably about hospitals, starting projects that the minister stopped. Only 23% spent. About medical lab equipment only 12%. The minister has stopped all major projects in the ministry. Because obviously he's acting by logic all the things that were done before it all went wrong, and I'm going to review it all, and then I'm going to see how the money is going to be spent. And while projects that are not disputed have been stopped, which has been questioned by the state of health and the protection of the citizens of this country, that is, of course, a different story. And finally something else that relates to two items of this budget, it's the Ministry of Agricultural Forestry and Water Economy. A very important item in the establishment of a stem plantation. Informing the introduction and selection centre, which should be the basis for Croatia to achieve its goal, which means that in the next three years it plants about 10,000 hectares of vineyards, and about 50,000 hectares of orchards and olive groves. That item spent 0 limes. 0 Kuna. What the Minister of Agriculture and Forestry does on this truly strategic issue. And the equally important question is the irrigation system, we know that Croatia is very bad. There's an item in the budget the Ministry also spent 0 kuna. Therefore, all this data that I have stated is that the budget is poorly planned. And if it's even worse spent, and certainly not the Minister of Finance, he's responsible for this first. But the ministers I was talking about, therefore, about economy, labour and entrepreneurship, science and education, health care and social care, agriculture and forestry should be called on to be responsible on the basis of these poor results of budget implementation. For all these reasons, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, the Club of Representatives of the Libre will not support this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-17-0.u25414	Thank you very much. We have a report for three corrections of an incorrect quote. The first is Mrs. Ivana Judge Trakostane. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-17-0.u25415	In a series of tendious and incorrect allegations I would only correct if I arrived three. So it's incorrect to say that the ministry so any... Mr. MP turned to the Ministry of Economy had to spend a budget of 6 months when the budget was also made in April this year. So only two months he was in effect until this report. So it's incorrect to say that no lip was spent on any ministry. Because we have to keep in mind this methodology for showing the budget. So money can be spent, but until it's paid out of the budget, he can't see that moment. So, in a number of ministries, a lot of money has been spent on this report, and the data that contributes to this are data that say employment has increased. So that the budget is well spent for 2004 in this small period, and not bad is the data that speak about export growth, employment growth, production growth and all those other macroeconomic data that say that this budget is therefore well spent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-17-0.u25416	Thank you. Second correction of the incorrect quote, Mr. Agent Ivan Bagarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-17-0.u25417	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I would correct my dear colleague, Jose Rados, when he said that he was actually from the budget spending items, sees in fact that the minister made a decision on not implementing the health care programme. Thus, it was incorrect and thus indicated that the health care of the people, or people, would be worse. As a doctor, I can tell you quite safely here and responsibly that the quality of healthcare depends not only on the cost of the means as well as the quality of life, but it is in fact, health care is only one of the conditions needed to actually work for the safety of human health and then it is better to redistribute some funds and spend some other projects in order to actually be all conditions respected for the quality of health, and the health system is just one of them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-17-0.u25418	Correction of the incorrect quote Mr. Zdravko Sočković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-17-0.u25419	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I would like to correct in a series of incorrect allegations at least two of Mr. Jose Radosh's representatives. One of these is that the best tourist season in Croatia in this year is primarily thanks to the work of the past Vlada and the other that the speedy approximation of Croatia to the European Union is mainly due to past Vlada. The truth is that this tourist season has been preparing and conducting preparations exclusively for this government and that it is credited with extremely good results in this season, and also related to the speedy approximation of Croatia to the European Union, I think it is also the result of the work of this government and the reputation of its president, Dr. Eve Sanader who enjoys Europe and the world.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-17-0.u25420	Thank you very much. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Representative Jozo Radoš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-17-0.u25421	Mr. Vice President. All three colleagues have actually expressed their views, of course, what they are entitled to, but not under the form of correcting an incorrect assumption. There was no correction of the incorrect allegations, especially from fellow Sockovic. His point of view is that it's a credit, a great credit to these governments too. I believe that processes such as joining the European Union and the process of such complex work as preparing a tourist season are something that cannot be prepared only in half a year. I therefore remain with the view that this is, in fact, to the greatest extent, the result of the former government's work and it is not correct that this government is giggling at all results.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-17-0.u25422	Corrections were at the border of correction and opinion, which is common in this House. And secondly, you didn't call on an article of the Rules of Procedure that was injured, so it wasn't quite correct either. On behalf of the HNS Club PGS, Ms. Representative and Vice-President Vesna Pusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-17-0.u25423	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, ladies from the Ministry. The budget, whose half-year execution report was not a developmental one in the budget discussions, and the main reason why the PGS Club did not support this budget whose half-yearly execution today is precisely the fact that it clearly shows that it has given up on development projects. We can discuss this in different ways, but we can also refer different criticisms to the previous Vlada and projects of the last government. The results of the type of positive avis on the way to the European Union, the type of highway and flats are visible, tangible and clear and I think absolutely out of the controversy. We'll see what the results of this government will be. However, today's revision seems a little confusing and confusing, as many colleagues and Mr. Minister also discuss this report on budget implementation as if we were talking about the budget. We are not talking today about what could, who should have, why more development projects couldn't be planned, why couldn't get into bigger, more ambitious rates of growth and more ambitious development projects, we'll talk about it when we talk about the budget, so tomorrow and we talked about it when we talked about this budget. So, early this year. Today we are talking about budget implementation. Therefore, not about what the opposition thinks should work, or thought it should work, which opposition projects thought should be introduced into the budget and financed, and the government felt that they were not needed or had other priorities. Today we are talking about what this government has given itself as projects, so what this government itself has introduced into its budget, said it will execute and watch the results of its semi-annual work. In other words, not what the opposition has forced or thought were smarter and better priorities, but what the government itself said it wants and to what extent it wants and to what extent it wants to realise as its own projects that the government has implemented within the first 6 months of the project itself and which it itself has introduced and introduced into its budget. Therefore, I think that in this particular debate, there are unnecessary controversy about what should have been put into the budget, and what is not and why there is no and what could have been and who has made the deficit and what the deficit will look like. It is important to see how much the government has fulfilled what it has said itself and what it has entered into its own budget, and it seems to me to be the subject of this debate today. It is also said that the minister repeatedly reiterated that some things will come at the end of the year, that some projects are seasonal, that in some situations it is the kind of projects where a half-yearly report cannot see how much it is and how intensively these projects are and will be clearly under the annual report and in the debate in the annual report. It may be, but it's obvious from this report that there's a whole series of projects, so if you want a whole series of micro-projects, projects that are an integral part, and together in mosaics, make up one image of development or development, one image of orientation according to, say, education, targeted development or education-led development. So according to a kind of modern, modern perception, modern vision of Croatia or not. These micro projects are all planned by this government and listed here in its execution, or non-execution. I will refer here exclusively to projects that can't be said that they will come at the end of the year for which it is obvious that they are either working or not working and which are financed continuously, the kind of intensity that is realized. So first, on behalf of the HNS Club, the PGS will look back on projects related to the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports. Projects that are obviously not related to annual funding, so, for the end of the year. For example, prevention of school addiction. Whenever there is a debate on addiction, everyone swears that this is one problem of modern society that we need to pay particular attention to, which we need to deal with in particular. In the first 6 months of what was planned, which in itself was very little, so 871,000 kuna was planned, 14.38% spent. A project to reform education. You know how often we say that for Croatia education is not only a question of modernity but also a question of the economic development strategy. So on this reform of education, education that will lead us towards a modern economy has been spent in the first six months of zero kuna. On the reconstruction and construction of sports facilities zero kuna. To professional training and education of teachers and teachers in primary schools, therefore, the basis on which this education will be built, zero kuna. On basic education and training of young and adults, zero kuna. To the learning of another foreign language, the key for us has been mentioned so many times as the main foundation of modern education, and also mentioned in all research conducted at the level of the European Union countries as one of the main criteria for measuring the quality of education. So, learning another foreign language in Croatian schools, zero kunas. Professional training and education of teachers and teachers and secondary schools, second step or second phase immediately after primary school. Zero kuna. High school information, first 6 months total zero kuna. The acquisition of foreign scientific journals is zero kuna. The programme of systematic research of the Adriatic Sea is zero kuna. Support to central computer resources of the system of science and high education of the zero kuna. Development and application of Internet technology, Carnet projects, zero kunas. Here's something where something was done. High-school information system 2.4% of planned for the whole year in the first 6 months. Specially highly educated scientific and technical cooperation programme. There was also something going on, it was 2.7% of what was planned to do for the whole year. Well, then, education is obviously not our orientation or at least not the orientation of this government. And then the Ministry of Family, Defense and Intergenerational Solidarity. Many mentions, often here with many emotions discussed projects by the Ministry, rehabilitation of Croatian military disabled people in health care centres, zero kuna. The affirmation of rights and child protection, something was done, it was 3.1% of what was planned to do for the whole year. Monitoring and improving policies for people with zero kuna disability. Government of the Republic of Croatia's Commission for Prevention of Disabilities in Child and Youth Behavior 0.3% of what was planned for the whole year. So the first six months worked and spent 0.3%. Monitoring and improving youth policy. Out of the total of what was planned, which is a million and 200 thousand kuna spent 8.4%, so 100 and some thousand kuna in the first 6 months. So, of the total work in the first six months, 8% were done. Projects for multi-member families are zero kuna. Support for children-oriented zero kuna programs. Support for youth-oriented zero kuna programmes. Protecting the abused in the family 0.3% of what is meant to be done throughout the year was done in the first six months, so in half a year. Development of service activities for older 0,37. So one third of one percent worked in the first 6 months of what was planned for the whole year for service activities for the elderly. The living room for older citizens, of 13 million and 110 thousand as planned for the whole year in the first 6 months is made 0. Then the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship. Incentive of exports of 0,12. So one, 0.12 of the one percent that was planned to work all year was made in the first six months. So there's only 99.88% left. Encouraging industrial development, therefore, the Agency for the Encouragement of Industrial Development Zero Kuna. Encouraging the development of a local loan of 7 million in the first 6 months nothing has been done. Encouraging the development of entrepreneurship zones in the first 6 months of the planned 55 million kuna has done nothing, 0. Encouraging local development projects 0. Funding and co-financing of professional rehabilitation and employment programmes for people with disabilities. Very consistent with what the Ministry has been doing, which I have already mentioned, for family, defenders and intergenerational solidarity, nothing, so 0 kuna. Encouraging women's entrepreneurship, you don't even need to talk, 0 kuna. So then, the national minority programmes of the small 145 thousand planned for this year spent 6 thousand, so 4.27 in the first 6 months of the total job, were made 4.27%. The Roma programmes, of the total planned for the first 6 months, were 5.47%. And finally, on this last one, I hope I've made a mistake somewhere but I haven't been able to find anywhere, I've looked at 7 or 8 items relating to this programme from the Ministry of Health and Social Care, something that's been said a lot lately, and it's something that we hope for Croatia so far is a problem that can be prevented, or that can be stopped and trusted in the Ministry of Health and Social Care seems to be actively related to the information, education and prevention of AIDS in the first six months has not been given a penny. In other words, not according to what we thought we should do not according to what we thought should be projects for Croatia for this government, but according to what you thought, because this government, HDZ and their partners thought they should work in Croatia in the first six months, it seems that nothing was done according to your own report. And we do not need to enter into the debate as the one responsible for the positive avis that Croatia has received for joining the European Union who is what it has contributed to, we need only to discuss what this government and this parliamentary majority is without any amendment to the budget proposed by the government here in parliament as your own project. According to the report also submitted by the same government for its 6-month job, it appears that the job is not working, for this reason the HNS PGS will not support this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-17-0.u25424	Thank you very much. In our assembly we were visited by students and teachers of the Eugen Kumičić Professional School of Rovinj and welcomed them. We have two corrections to the incorrect allegations, the first is Mr. Representative Franjo Arabovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-17-0.u25425	Dear Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the distinguished representative would have corrected the quote when she said that the interest of this government was not investing in education. On the contrary, the interest of this government is to invest in education, only one reason why these current systems that have been in primary and secondary education and have not been able to invest so much financial resources since they have embarked on a complete reform of primary, secondary and higher education. Thus, we have now completed a catalogue of knowledge that has never yet been brought to life in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-17-0.u25426	Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect alleged Mr. Representative Emil Tomljanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-17-0.u25427	Mr. Vice President, the esteemed vice president of the Croatian Parliament, said an incorrect quote at the end of her presentation. It began, however, by saying, "This government doesn't seem to be doing its job." On the contrary, it is an incorrect assumption that this government is doing its job, however, the interpreted items after the implementation of the budget for the first six months are only those that could refer to the opposite, or the wrong conclusion. So I'm correcting the assumption that this government is not doing its job, it's not true this government is doing it according to its programme and based on this report for the first six months, it's doing its job and it's doing it successfully.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-17-0.u25428	Thank you. On behalf of the HSP Club, Mr. Representative Miroslav Rozic, please welcome.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-17-0.u25429	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. The report on the implementation of the state budget for the first half of this year, according to the HSP Club, shows indisputable to two next conclusions. First, the funds for the regular activities of the state administration and state authorities, i.e. all rights arising under the laws and regulations, have been implemented exactly as planned in the state budget. And secondly, the funds are planned for a number of activities stemming from different national programmes, internal programmes, government decisions, the heads of state authorities are mainly not used or used slightly. And from that, we can conclude that this budget in that part is poorly planned because it essentially overwrites the budget of the former government that has accumulated in the budget a whole series of problematic and inefficient activities that were mainly used to finance its associates, like-minded people and themselves in terms that total amounted to several billion kunas. On the other hand, the positive fact that the current government has not implemented such projects is to be hoped that it will not be implemented by the end of the year and it is necessary to put an end to these unnecessary activities where the leaders are trying to spend all the planned funds in order to plan or seek equal size or even greater resources for these entirely unnecessary and unclear activities next year. The report also makes it clear that the state budget funds of the past years have been ruthlessly spent on activities containing two basic characteristics. First of all, the first sign of funds to associations by several different methods of criteria and different items. Secondly, expenditure on the basis of personal or intellectual services is represented above all measures, i.e. they are intended for me to translate from Croatia to Croatian major fees to external associates as if there are no people in the home authorities who do and know how to do these jobs. Following the resources available to associations and individuals is difficult because the state budget is made by so-called. the resolute principle, therefore, of users and, within that, according to some real principle, to certain purposes and not actually drawn up according to the functional principle or according to the types of expenditure, which would be far better in our court at the HSP Club. So what am I talking about? In fact, I'm talking about those items of the state budget that they have made possible and that they always allow, and always, after that first wave of wealth through conversion and privatisation, where an entire richer layer in Croatia is born, it is now made possible through such budgets, it joins another layer that is actually more cunning and in a more legally correct way providing significant resources and provides well-provided positions in society. What exactly am I talking about? Unlike this layer that I have mentioned now, citizens are forced to borrow and live from their future work, i.e. become slaved to foreign banking institutions and employers, thus preventing them from showing any potential public dissatisfaction. What I'm actually talking about are a number of examples in this very execution of the state budget, so I'm going to list some of them just by the ministries to see exactly what we're talking about. During the division of the Ministry of Family, Defence and Inter-negration Solidarity, significant funds for activities that do not have a valid legal basis were planned in the framework of the protection of the family, motherhood and youth. The implementation of these measures means the implementation of a national family policy that reduced the allowance for children and maternity benefits while at the same time inventing a series of activities that sought to blind the eyes of the public. The principle of organising meetings, seminars, presentations, analysis of certain phenomena and the like served as a way to transfer certain associations to close authorities, and individuals through personal and intellectual services to participate in projects. This section also provides for some means such as transfers to citizens and households, although the resolution of rights and obligations of citizens without legal basis is, in fact, both against the constitutional and against the law of the body, any body has no authority to grant individual amounts to individual families or to individual citizens according to its own opinion. For example, in this section, significant resources are planned for the unnecessary activities of the human name or without any real impact on improving the position of family or individual members, for example. If you take the report, you can take a look at the sections. The Ad hoc Child Council which is the most important item is personal and intellectual services. What exactly is this about? About a fee of several thousand kuna members for two meetings a year. The funds were not spent, though. The estimated amount is 121 thousand kuna. The affirmation of children's rights and protection, projected by a million and 762 thousand kunas, made by 56 thousand kunas, so about 0.5%, and only for current donations in cash. Implementation or promotion of family policy, also one ad hoc body. One million and one hundred thousand kuna predicted. Done by 194 for intellectual and personal services only. Monitoring and improving policies for people with disabilities, envisioned by 250,000 kuna, spent zero. The Government of the Republic of Croatia's commission on persons with disabilities, envisioned by 426 million kuna, spent nothing. The government's commission to prevent the behavioral disturbances of children and young people, envisioned by a million and 827 thousand kunas, spent nothing. Monitoring and improving policy for young millions and 200, spent 0.8%. Law firming and informing people with disabilities, planned 685 thousand, spent 5%. Improving the quality of family life and the development of family services planned 4 million and 400 thousand kuna, made 58 thousand kuna or you 0.15%. Encourage the social participation of young people, planned a million and 643 thousand kuna, carried out 87. Projects for multi-member families planned 2.5 million kunas, done nothing. What kind of projects are these? If it is to improve the position of multiple families, we have not seen here in the House any proposal of the Law on the Rights of Multiple Families to which this would be regulated. Twelve, support for children-oriented programmes million and 570 thousand kuna, done nothing. Support for programmes aimed at young people millions and 100,000 kunas, done nothing. Alimony fund, planned 20 million kuna, done nothing, etc. etc. As a special administration within this ministry, the Intergenerational Solidarity Administration has been newly formed, 21 million kuna are scheduled for the administration, so 22 million kuna, of which it was executed, listen, 38 thousand. The activities listed under this administration are the development of service activities for older people and the living room for older citizens. It is also quite questionable who, in fact, decides whether this executive authority improves the living room for older citizens or service activities for older citizens. We have also not seen here any draft law on which these funds would be deployed, but this is obviously left to the executive authority and to its own discretion. The Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship would say these children who came here to listen to us, those who wrote a report like this would probably say to them, "Sit down." The division of this ministry is seen by the current government to do nothing about the most important activities aimed at the development of the domestic economy. However, it must be acknowledged that some of these divisions do not need to do anything, because the activities that were imagined here and represent making, in fact, some ridiculous studies for which only significant copyright fees are provided, so it is good that they are not carried out. For example, an estimated 8 million 700,000 kuna has been spent to stimulate exports. That's how much we encourage exportation. The development of competitiveness and export orientation of the Croatian industry envisions a million, 750 thousand kuna, nothing is spent. To encourage industrial development, therefore, the agency is projected a million and a half thousand kuna, nothing is spent. For the impact of energy prices on the economic development and development of the Republic of Croatia, imagine whether wonderful names, 400 thousand kuna, all based on intellectual and personal services. For programmes for efficient use of energy and for projects, the use of renewable energy sources totalling millions and 250 thousand kunas, spent almost nothing, only for some copyright fees, and jobs would actually fall within the regular activity of the ministry in our court. The sixth, interesting thing is from the item on the division of this ministry, be careful, listen to me, the subsidy to the "Vicor Lenac Shipyard" 9 million 688 thousand kuna, fortunately nothing was spent. For the national consumer protection programme, a million kunas are foreseen. For the reform of the energy sector envisioned 250,000 kuna, done nothing, etc. And so on, we could count it all you want. For example, for the energy system development strategy, a million and 230 thousand kuna were planned, nothing was done. For the transfer of environmentally acceptable technologies, all for intellectual and personal services provided for by $150,000, nothing was spent. Under this ministry, therefore, there are also funding for former JNA members' pensions, projected annually for 380 million kuna, and made about half, so all that took place in half a year. For the pensions of NOR fighters foreseen 900 million kunas, all done as well, and for comparisons I will tell you about the pensions of NOR fighters the funds are greater than for all unemployed in Croatia. For compensation, the unemployed are expected to receive 853 thousand kuna, so 50 million kuna less than for NOR fighters, it is certainly all done, and for these pensions here I would also like to say that the funds that are several times larger than all birth benefits or which may be even more convenient for me are certainly fascinating that for each NOR fighter are allocated from the state budget as for the whole class of children. For joint investment in the employment of young people at local level envisaged 2 million 700 thousand kuna, nothing was spent, i.e. only one small part envisaged for intellectual and personal services. For the Fund for Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities envisioned 21 million kunas, nothing was done. For crafts and small and medium entrepreneurship, not to speak. The Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Economy, for equipment for the identification of genetically modified organisms, i.e. the contamination of seeds genetically modified organisms, a lot of discussion in this Assembly and in the public, is foreseen 1 million kuna, but guesses are not spent anything. For the irrigation system envisioned 4 million kunas, nothing is executive. For water supply, etc. It is also an interesting item, be careful, strengthening capacity in the area of agriculture and food products. Interesting names. Where even 10 million kunas are provided for intellectual and personal services and nothing has been done. The Ministry of the Sea, Tourism, Transport and Road Safety Liaison, which we are talking about here at 00, 11, hence the unresolved result. For the safety of road traffic, 682 thousand kunas are foreseen, nothing is spent. For the execution of the inspection solutions of 800,000 kuna, nothing was spent. For the construction and equipment of intervention heliodroms on Croatian islands we talked about here in the Rescue and Crisis Law, for the construction and equipment of intervention heliodroms on Croatian islands million 860 thousand kunas, nothing was done. And let me just have two more words, for maintaining rail infrastructure and traffic regulation, a billion 377 million 571 thousand kuna are foreseen, and 15% is spent. For the fitting of port captainies, etc. That's not what I'm talking about. For the development strategy of Croatian tourism and here someone spoke, 4 million 870,000 kuna were foreseen and 0.82% were executed. The Ministry of Environmental Protection, Spatial Planning and Construction on all environmental protection and spatial planning activities is foreseen for total million amounts, symbolic amounts have been carried out. Itd. To conclude, I think you understand what I'm talking about when our club says that after that first fortune through conversion and privatisation, where a whole richer layer of money is born, it is now accompanied by another layer that is more cunning and more legally correct for various programs that have nothing to do with the brain or are even more regular obligation of the ministries to plan huge funds. Thank you very much. We're not going to support this execution report in any way. Unless we see in the next budget proposal at least 80% of these unnecessary projects that have come out of it and that they are not burdening citizens with a huge budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-17-0.u25430	Thank you very much. We have two corrections to an incorrect quote. The first is Mrs. Bozica Solic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-17-0.u25431	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. There, I would correct the incorrect allegation, one of a series of incorrect allegations that Mr. Rozic said in his debate. And that is, I will only quote him in one of his statements, "that no kuna has been spent on multi-member families". It refers to the report in six months alone. I'll tell him it's true, that 714 thousand and 726 kuna were spent for multi-member families and 271 families. That in the course of the competition that has been held these days and completed the deadline for the procurement of computers for these multi-member families, which is cca 500 families. And that's right, Mr. Representative. And what you said has absolutely nothing to do with the report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-17-0.u25432	Thank you very much. There's no business possibility. There's a chance when you raise a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, Mr. Rose.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-17-0.u25433	Mr. Chairman, I'm actually corrected in the part I haven't discussed, I've been discussing the implementation of the state budget for the first six months. And what happened after the first six months I didn't discuss it. So it's impossible to correct my incorrect quote that refers to the time behind this report that, this report is talking about, that's number one. And under number two, I said that there was no and there is no law by which these funds would be deployed, but it's simply discretionary law in the ministry.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-17-0.u25434	Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect allegations Mr. Representative Emil Tomljanović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-17-0.u25435	Mr. Vice President, here's what I'm going to do to make absolutely no harm to the Rules of Procedure, and I don't think I'm going to bother him, because the esteemed representative literally said, that is to say, he made a factual claim, of course, by analysing the items on the implementation of the budget for the first six months. Citiram said "the current government is doing nothing to develop the economy". There is nothing to do for the development of the economy, so this government has done nothing for the first six months of this year for the development of the economy in the Republic of Croatia. It's not true, it's not true, it's bringing in the context of certain data from the implementation of the budget and it's completely incorrect fact, so it's not an opinion, Mr. Honorable Representative said it, and it's simply not true. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-17-0.u25436	Thank you very much, let's move on. We're done discussing clubs. We're moving on to an individual debate. The first is Ms. Representative Marija Lugaric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-17-0.u25437	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government. The debate on the budget here in the Croatian Parliament and the debate on the implementation of budget items, and this is our responsibility as representatives and the Croatian Parliament as a whole, is always an invitation to the discussion on the implementation of drawn plans and also a debate on the spoken nice words of promises that only in the budget and nowhere else receive their justification and where they go as really serious plans and serious work or reveal themselves as just nice words, promises. Unfortunately, this debate on the half-year budget report is late, which if we know that the execution is devastating for the government, it is no surprise at all. This topic has been lazily dragging on the agenda since the start of the session in September, I guess it waits until time does its part and so the government does not like the first half of this year to reduce what better results this autumn, and so does Minister Schuker in the opening exhibition. Unfortunately, if we look at and execute for the first 10 months that we have been given in the draft budget for the following year, we see that the items do not change anything, that those that have not been executed and what has not been done have not been done. However, we cannot discuss this now and cannot discuss it because this is not the point of the agenda. But good things were promised and guaranteed. But what this report very clearly shows is that very little has been done, especially in that section that is declared to be the most strategically important. Youth, entrepreneurship, science and education. A few evidences for that fact. For the prevention of behavioural disorders of children and young people, 2.5 million kunas were spent or 0.24%. Monitoring and promoting policies for young people of millions and 200 thousand kunas is spent only 101 thousand kunas or 8%. Incentive of social participation of young people is spent 5%. Support for children's programmes and support for youth programmes totalling 2 million and 670 thousand kuna, neither invested nor single lip. Despite the daily declaration that young people are most important to us, there seems to be a lot of things. Dear colleagues and colleagues all of these zeroes and all of this mess is not my fiction, these are not any bad interpretations such as quotes and official data from the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I have spoken about this issue especially as young people have spoken several times, and I am glad that all clubs and advocates stand out individually in their discussions. Unfortunately, the situation, based on the implementation data for the first 10 months, is no better because the situation does not seem to be exactly the same. One example that proves that the thing really is that there's nothing he wants to do. This competition for youth-oriented programmes is the donations and funding of not government associations dealing with the social fragmentation of young people is a range in 11 months last year. The decision-making deadline was the end of March, which coincided with the end of the temporary funding. By the end of September, not one single working group of the family ministry, defenders and intergenerational solidarity had met, and no NGO had received a single lip today and these associations were scheduled to function in 2004. If you wanted to, you could have done it! You have many examples of young people. For example, the Vice-President of the Government is very often “youth clubs”. Youth clubs of 1. 3. did not receive a single June and the funds they had until 3 months were paid to them last year and they received these funds in late September, in early October and only after signing the petition had public actions and thus actually forced the ministry to finance youth clubs. Therefore, she spoke nicely, and it is nice to talk, but she needs to do something concrete. Besides young people, one of the other important topics that is very often spoken about is entrepreneurship. Even on this web portal, it is now promoted as something very good, very new, but what was done. Encourage the entrepreneurship of zero kuna beginners, encourage local zero kuna development projects, improve the quality system spent significant zero kunas, education of zero kuna entrepreneurs, development of activity, entrepreneurial resources has again spent zero kunas, fostering development and existing zero kuna incubators. Then, encouraging the entrepreneurship of young people again signifying zero kunas. What is fun to discuss tomorrow and the next days, all these items completely disappear from the 2005 budget, fit into one sublime item together with farmers with significantly reduced resources. Indeed, Prime Minister Sanader says in a guaranteed card: "We young people will not be taken to the future without hope!" My comment on that guarantee given what you're doing zero kuna. Unfortunately, that's not all! When we analyze the implementation of the school budget again, it's all a lot of zeroes, to me it's the scariest thing for this country I think we can agree on the most devastating. I almost can't believe it, but I still don't know why the Government of the Republic of Croatia would lie to the representative of the Croatian Parliament for the first six months, unfortunately that's the case until 11. 10th, which is a temporary solution to the budget, the 2005 Budget Proposal has not been spent on a single kuna or a single lip. For example, the information of primary and secondary schools has not been spent on the professional training of teachers and teachers. We haven't spent a single lip describing the illiterate. We know how many of this country's illiterate, we haven't spent any of the only lip planned to equip schools with radioactive equipment. We haven't spent a single lip on learning another foreign language, training the first profession, and so on. The items are too much so I can take everything out here right now. Items that are significantly less than desirable and expected 50 are significantly higher. When you look at those indices, they're all tens, 15s and so on. So how do you believe in guarantees to invest more in school? I have to admit that I don't especially believe it if we know that those items are significantly reduced compared to 2003. And now we see and that's what the government has written that what is planned is not being implemented at all. In that context, it was also very important to listen to the announcements of Minister Primorac at the beginning of the school year that children are moving into a new school. What makes this school different? We haven't spent any lip on school equipment, the same benches, the same equipment, not one new doactic methodical material.? Is this school different from what you teach at school? The curricula and the program have not changed. The catalogues of knowledge that have been so bombically announced what was published in the beginning of the 9th month for three teaching subjects, that is, the rest, nothing further has been published, and it is still stuck and it is not known what will happen. What makes this school different? Apparently, it started on Wednesday. When representatives of the ministry, education, science and sports responded to these remarks on the Committee, both my colleagues and my fellow MPs, they said, they couldn't do anything because they had to form the Ministry, because they joined together, I mean, I wonder what's more important to us. Build a ministry or make sure our students, our kids go to a better, better school? Because if one generation, we're one generation that's a few hundred thousand children being damaged by us forming something and reassembling it, I think it's going to be too much for this country. It is certainly not a good way to work the Government and it is not a good way to work the Ministry. Because of what I've stated, from everything we've said so far, I think it's pretty clear how one is said, how another is done, how one is guaranteed, the other is executed, so I won't be able to support this report personally on the implementation of the state budget. However, the experiences of this Assembly teach us that the majority in this house will raise their hands very incriminatingly for this report by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and then I suppose they understand that they are raising their hand for the sake of unhappiness. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-17-0.u25438	Thank you very much. It is up to Madam Representative Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic. She's gone. She's losing her right to debate. Mr. Nenad Stazic, also, is gone, losing his right. Mr. Mato Churchman, he's gone, he's also losing his right. Mr. Zvonimir Mršić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-17-0.u25439	Your Honor, Vice President, the respected head of the ministry. Since it is a debate that talks about spring snow and we are discussing how spring snow has had an impact, that is, how external snow has had an impact on spring snow and tomorrow we have a debate on the state budget, I will refrain today from discussing the implementation of the state budget and appeal to colleagues to do the same, to concentrate on working on committees today and tomorrow to discuss the state budget because it really doesn't make any sense in 11 months to discuss the implementation of the state budget in the first six months. As the only representative of the local self-government unit, I wonder what would happen to the individual mayor or the captain to carry out his budget, so the budget of his unit of local self-government to discuss at the same session of the city council when and the budget for the next budgetary period. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-17-0.u25440	Thank you very much. Ms. Jelena Pavicicic-Vukicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-17-0.u25441	I mean, after this appeal to my colleague, I wonder if she'd say anything on this subject or not, but let me just say a few sentences really very briefly. We really feel very strange when we are discussing the budget for the first half of 2004, in fact all of us in the halls in the towers and in committee sessions are actually discussing and reading the budget, the contribution of the 2005 budget, which is, of course, appropriate this time of year, as we heard from colleagues Mršić. But personally, I feel that everyone should actually be given a chance to show what and how they can do. And in fact, we all expect the Croatian government to finally give us what and how it can work. I am saying this because I believe that the 2004 budget should be based on the implementation of the plan for the previous year and after the provisional budget of the election year. The analysis of the items with this extremely low realization of 0 to 5% points to the fact that the government has been very reluctant to place funds on all specific programmes concerning young people, all types of prevention, therefore of all kinds of HIV addiction, hepatitis, sexually transmitted diseases. That she was reluctant to place funds for entrepreneurs' incubators and centres, programs they did, should have trained for people with disabilities, to strengthen regional and local self-government, to inform, to equip the school and so on. Of course, a lot of those unrealised items we've already heard, and I really don't think we should bother the public with the same zeroes. But let us actually approach that problem from another point of view. Searching for the causes of such an extremely poor realization of all these programs. For example, we received a report from a meeting of the Committee on Gender Equality in which the Prime Minister, i.e. The applicant's representative pointed out, it says in the report, that it is not a problem in the insurance of funds because the budget is liquid and there are no delays in the payment but in fact it is exclusively a reflection of the lack of projects. So somehow there we actually come into a conflict between our arguments depending on the needs, depending on the opportunity and it's definitely time to say if we have projects why we don't finance them, and if we don't have projects to see why no competitions for these projects are called. And it seems somehow that realisation is weak and late in precisely these things that are not directly based on the government's activity and ministries. which are not directly dependent on execution, for example on the restoration of rolling stock, pay for wages and so on. I'd like to touch another segment in my debate. In the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, it is commendable that the realization of the item of education of children of Croatian citizens abroad is realized by 46%, but it is also expected to be realised with the same settings and education within Croatia and within all segments. So let's say that if we do an analysis of construction and construction, reconstruction of buildings, sports halls, different terrains, municipal infrastructures, which are directly based on preschool, school, these investments, we can actually see that the realization of all these investments is about 36%. I think it's really, really devastating just because it's big sums. This isn't about 15 thousand kunas, so let's say the realization is zero. It's about very large sums. It's about millions of kunas. If the plan was 96 million kuna, unfortunately only 34 was realized. This can be seen if you do this detailed analysis. And finally, I think that if some citizen we would invite, who is now walking perhaps in Mark's square, whom we would invite to come to see this implementation of the budget, I think he would rightly wonder what direction Croatia is going in, why did Croatia not take advantage of, why did Croatia not realise those funds offered by the World Bank and other funds, development funds? Why Croatia works very little in the field of ecology, why it works so little in the field of employment, and of course everything on those items that are set out in the budget and for which the Government has in some way provided a guarantee that it will implement them. I, as an optimist, of course hope that the execution for the second term will be much better. After all, no matter who's in the opposition, and who's in power, I think it's in everyone's best interest that programs that adopt and see their light of day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-17-0.u25442	Thank you, colleague. The next one is Representative Jagoda Martic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-17-0.u25443	Dear vice presidents, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! The SDP club has repeatedly warned and pointed to the fact that this government does not have a designed economic policy, does not have a clear economic vision of development. The more time since the start of this government's mandate, the more our claims become and more obvious. Even though the government boasts positive economic growth indicators, the fact is that statistics record slowdown and negative growth, a negative trend in economic movements. For example, the data for the city of Zagreb are the following. In June 2004, the industrial production index compared to June 2003 was 94.6 and 5.4%, respectively. The number of unemployed in June 2003 decreased by 22% compared to June 2002. But in June 2004, only 6% was lower than in 2003. In addition, after the end of the tourist season and the construction season, it is expected to see a serious rise in unemployment. And on the other hand, the fact is that this government has stopped all the projects that led to employment. So in the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship, we have the following situation in the plan of implementation: encouraging women's entrepreneurship from planned millions and 500 thousand kunas is realized zero. The same situation is the point of encouraging entrepreneurship among beginners, the execution of zero. The Fund for Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities is also zero kuna. The government's lack of a clear vision of the country's development and that there is quite a discrepancy in the work of the government and individual ministries, according to many execution items by the year 30.6.2004, which are kunas. Therefore, it is unlikely that the planned projects will succeed and be realised by the end of the year. If the planned funds are not spent in this year for the implementation of certain programmes, then it is to assume that these programmes in the 2005 budget will be shut down or the projected funds will be significantly lower. At the beginning of her term, the government expressed great concern for young people, for families, for elderly people. This execution of the budget before us shows that this concern was nevertheless merely declarative. Now I'm not going to bother all of us here together and the public with all those numbers or articles of execution of zero or just a few percent because we've heard a lot about it today. So much for the government's care for young people, families and elderly people. Furthermore, all programmes aimed at prevention or all forms of prevention. So the prevention of addiction, I also think about addiction to various types of intoxicating drugs and to the prevention of alcoholism, are not realised, so we have the following items of detox treatment of addicts, the execution of zero kuna, education and training of health professionals and associates on prevention of addiction, treatment and rehabilitation of addicts from planned 85 thousand kunas was spent zero. Treatment and rehabilitation of treated alcoholics is only 11.67%. And so on. And I don't think we all need to be here together to remind ourselves of what the problem is today of all societies, so unfortunately our society too, the problem of spreading addiction, the problem of drugs and suppressing these monsters. I would like to point out once again that projects which are not spent on this year or if spent on a knownly smaller than those foreseen in the 2005 budget will probably not be planned anymore. And that's what we'll see when we talk about the budget tomorrow. There are also interesting preventive programs and their execution for the first six months, so to preserve the improvement of youth reproductive health from the planned 20,000 spent only 0 kunas. So from such a small amount, nothing has been spent, the preservation of the improvement of reproductive health for women the execution of not 0 kunas, prevention and early detection of breast cancer of the predicted 180 thousand was spent only 2.82%. Prevention of malignancies of 0 kuna, and so on, education for programme performers and HIV monitoring working group spent not 0 kuna. The increase in voluntary testing and HIV consultations since the planned $15 million, 652 kuna, has been spent 0 kuna. The psychosocial aid to HIV families has been spent on 0 kunas. And so on. I don't think it should be mentioned how much prevention it is if we want to develop a healthy society, and if we want to work to preserve citizens' health. The most expensive health care system is the one that saves on prevention. I think the guy's excuse or apology was first three months' temporary funding, so the budget was practically working by the end of 6 months only 3 months. I don't think that's an acceptable excuse. Because all these programs and projects were somehow already they were working so they were simply stopped. So let's say here's one piece of information, for example. The implementation of sanitary surveillance for the first 6 months is the execution of as much as 75.16% means 2 thirds of the intended funds have been spent. And it's about one program or project and jobs that function normally. So there's no excuse that this budget was in effect for only three months. I could do these and similar situations from the material that's ahead of us to list further. But there's no need. I think this was quite enough to show how this government is planning to run Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-17-0.u25444	Thank you very much, dear colleague. We have corrections to incorrect allegations. The first one came forward by representative Tomljanovic, please be my guest.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-17-0.u25445	Madam Vice President, I will correct only one of a series of incorrect allegations, which outlines the tone and the caratker debates that we have now had the opportunity to hear in relation to the Government and everything that has been said in relation to the Government. I quote, fact quote. And all in the sense of commenting on budget implementation for the first six months of this year. "This government has stopped all programmes that are going to reduce the employment rate." Ma'am, you've made a statement to the Croatian public that's not true. And not even that information you quoted from these first six months about the implementation of the budget is even possible in this context as you have said and commented on it. Because I'm not telling the truth, it's just not true. if for no other reason, then it is not only the government's only or programmes aimed at reducing the unemployment rate, and you can read the materials yourself and see what happens to the unemployment rate throughout 2004 compared to 2003. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-17-0.u25446	Thank you very much, dear colleague. The next is MP Markovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-17-0.u25447	Thank you, Madam President. What's common is that I keep repeating blood all the time, the government has no clear visions of development. I think it's based on these six months very incorrect, because the fact that this government is holding items that are in the budget unlike the last government that ran as the Minister wanted. So I think if this happens again, you'll have every right to do it again at the end of the year. These all together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-17-0.u25448	Thank you very much. Next up, it's the registrator of Bekavac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-17-0.u25449	Thank you, Madam Vice President, I would like to correct the incorrect quote of my colleague Matic, who said the government does not encourage employment. Which is a lie. Because the government encourages employment, and as evidence is the fact that the first fall of employees is below 30,000, which is certainly the result of the work of the new Croatian government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-17-0.u25450	Thank you very much. We can go on with the individual discussion. Now it's Ljubica Lalic's turn, here's your colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-17-0.u25451	Thank you, Madam Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. As next year's budget can read the policy to be implemented, the implementation of the budget can be seen whether and how this policy is implemented. By discussing the budget, I expressed my negative opinion not only on him but also on the policy being implemented. This report on the implementation of the budget confirms the correctness and foundation of my thinking and proves that the policy that is leading Croatia is even worse than it was given in the budget. From the material ahead, it is evident that from the promise we will launch Croatia there is nothing, unless it was meant to run backwards. Croatia can only be launched if it is driven economically if there is an increase in production and new employment. As this is the primary interest of every state state, it plans the means to encourage this to happen. So in our budget for state support for recovery, restructuring planned 22,497 million kuna. Which, given the difficulties in which economic operators find themselves, is not much, but little has been done in zero. This zero depicts the interests of the state for economic development. In this regard, we bear in mind that the state is still the owner of companies that have potential and perspective with the intervention of not so serious problems. And while we seem to be seemingly concerned about the increase in imports and while we are declaring ourselves to increase exports, because experts say only by increasing exports will decrease the debt to the abroad, the economy ministry is planning to boost exports with 8.717 million kuna. That only cost 10 grand 618 kuna. And that's for promotional, information services, until nothing's been invested for subsidies to companies. Here is a picture of the real will of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to encourage exports. But that's not the end of it. Only a million, 750 thousand are planned to develop the competitiveness of the export orientation of Croatia, which is too little, but too little has been invested. In the segment of craftsmanship, small and medium entrepreneurship, the situation is similar so that out of the planned 165 and nearly 166 million kuna investment in the development of craftsmanship, only 18 million kunas were spent, or 10.81% of the planned funds. Although investment in the development of this particular segment of the economy has given excellent results in recent years, the current Ministry of Economy has apparently stopped the positive process. Not offering someone more successful. However, the ministry that is also responsible for work is not only peripheral, but also persons with disabilities and consumer protection. For the Professional Rehabilitation and Employment Fund, 21 million kunas were planned. Most precisely, 18 almost 19 million were planned to finance and co-finance the professional rehabilitation and employment programmes of people with disabilities, and 0 of which was invested. That nothing is different to young people either, shows the item -- a joint investment in the employment of young people at local level, planned 2.7 million kuna, invested 0. Despite the fact that this Assembly adopted a Consumer Protection Act, which the state assumed to protect all citizens as consumers from planned for the national consumer protection programme, it was all spent 50,000 in the name of the current donation in money, probably to some association so as not to say that in Croatia consumers are only formally protected, and the law adopted is a pure Pharisee on the way towards the European Union. If we want to go to Europe, we have to act like her, not on principle, the paper suffers everything and pass a law that will not be implemented. The basis of such a conclusion contributes and gives an item - strengthening the ability in the area of consumer protection against planned 6 and a half million kunas is invested 0. According to the materials that the government has presented to us, neither the Ministry of Family, Defence and intergenerational solidarity that has completely failed to protect the family, motherhood and youth. Contrary to all the pathetics in front of TV screens and news pages, reality looks different. The item - improving the quality of family life and the development of family services from the planned 4.4 million kuna, only 58,000 were invested on donations probably to some association. For projects for multi-member families planned 2 and a half million kunas, 0 were invested to protect the abused in the family, only 4,000 were invested from the planned million and 300 on donations, probably to some association. There is no better relationship for young people or for disabled people, where 0 or any symbolic amount has also been invested from the planned funds. The Directorate for Intergenerational Solidarity in the Family, the Ministry of the Family for Living for senior citizens of the 13 million kuna planned, nothing was invested, for the development of service activities for older people from the planned 7 million kunas was invested only 27,000, and the only thing spent in that administration was the salaries of officials at the head of the administration which is clearly their own purpose. All of this proves that this government has no clear vision of neither economic development nor adequate family policy as the headquarters of society, and is particularly insensitive to young people, persons with disabilities, and towards the apparent growth of violence not only in the family but also in school. As I have observed the budget from the aspect of the electoral unit, or region from which I come from, I would also like to observe its execution from that aspect. Then I said that Slavonia could declare the day of adoption of the budget a day of mourning because it is anti - Slavonic. If that's the case, it proves this report. For example, the Regional Development Fund was to invest 33 million kuna in five Slavonian counties, of which 26 and a half million were to be granted. It's 0 kuna. But that's not the end of it. In the Ministry of Agriculture for projects, the water line of Eastern Slavonia, Slavonska Podravina, the water supply system Valpovo, the water supply system of Beli Manastir and Slatina, the construction of accumulation, the trough of the river Vuka, the arrangements of the Karašice basin from the planned 21 million kuna were spent in 6 months 0. For such a helpful announcement of the establishment of the Food Agency in Osijek of the planned 2 and a half million kuna for 6 months, 0 was invested, which clearly speaks of what importance the Government attaches to the project that Slavonses assured them that the Messiah, the Savior, is coming with the Agency. I guess now it's clear to the Slavs that even the government doesn't consider the Agency a savior of Slavonia, so instead of continuing to stain their eyes, she only gave them the figure in six months. But it's not the only fig. A system of irrigation has been announced as a strategic project of Slavonia. Everyone, it sounded fine after last year's catastrophic drought, as God made sure that in the spring and early summer, Slavonia was well soaked, even too, and so the project fell into oblivion, so in the situation the irrigation system of the planned 4 million kunas was invested 0, and in the item the irrigation of the planned 6 million was invested 0. These few examples have not exhausted all the figurines we have received. The skills and ability to conduct agrarian policy and the attitude towards the village depict items of rural development, support for income for non-income farmers. Of the planned 70 million kunas, 0 was invested. Despite the lack of cost capacity to store fruits and vegetables from domestic production, the planned 3,850,000 kuna was invested with a poor 700,000. Nothing's been better than cattlemen. Contrary to the announcements of intensive livestock development by adopting some of the famous livestock support quotas compared to 2003, the support decreases in half. Also, 158,000 dairy cows paid for in 2003 for aid of 139 million kuna, this year 70 million kuna will be paid in a row. In this way, cattle production is not stimulated, nor do warlords and cattlemen approach the European Union. On the basis of the information presented only a small part from the abundance of the same or similar examples of budget execution, what about the Government whose work and ability is depicting just the execution of the budget? We can say that it is senseless, incompetent, that there is no vision of the economic development of the state, that it does not lead to a policy of uniform development of the region as assumptions of general development of the state, that it is unable to implement a policy of protection of family and family values, that certain structures such as persons with disabilities, youth, consumers and the old on the side of the government's interest. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-17-0.u25452	Thank you very much. We have corrections to incorrect allegations. The first one came from the representative Bozica Šolić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-17-0.u25453	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Here is a series of incorrect allegations that Lalić presented in her presentation, and I will look back on just one incorrect quote from all the false allegations. I quote Mrs. Lalić's incorrect quote: "The policy of this government is even worse than I could have imagined." That's not true, ma'am. You know for a fact that it is not true, and I will now present the fact that this Government has achieved the best financial result in tourism this year since tourism in the Republic of Croatia and the Adriatic, unemployment has been reduced, and that is the launch of the economy that you are contesting, import growth has been reduced, while exports have been increased. This Vlada has a strong vision and ability to develop the Republic of Croatia and this will certainly show the joy of all citizens, unlike you and similar to you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-17-0.u25454	Thank you very much, colleague. I'm going to ask you not to insult each other, but I have to tell you that you could hardly say a correction with a sentence in which a colleague says something about her opinion. You can't correct your opinion. You can correct the data, so I'm asking you nicely to move on, and your colleagues and colleagues don't throw you out of the bench. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Representative Lalic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-17-0.u25455	Thank you, Madam Vice President. So Article 209 was injured because a colleague of parliament was not correcting the allegations but correcting her opinion. My opinion was solely based on the data contained in the materials written by the Government and everything I was presenting, I did not use that data from anywhere but from the report that is right in front of us, which is on our benches. Well, since it's already going to correct the wrong allegations, it would be good for colleagues to read exactly that information first and on the basis of that information to bring the court, and not be handled by the policy of the type "who would, would, would." We'll see, fellow Members, and about our contribution will probably be tried, likely to judge voters as...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-17-0.u25456	My colleague, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-17-0.u25457	...and then when they tried to... [[You can't hear the phone.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-17-0.u25458	Thank you very much, colleague. Except for the fact that you called for article 209 which is very controversial in this case, I think we're really already going to insult the MPs, so I'm asking you nicely when you're answering for a debate, and both sides, that we're not insulting each other rather than trying to conflict with our opinions. Next correction of the incorrect quote, MP Frano Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-17-0.u25459	Thank you, Madam Vice President. In a number of incorrect allegations and obvious inefficiencies in the work of the Croatian Government, I must correct several incorrect allegations. First, that the particular family ministry has completely failed to care for family, youth, etc. This is completely untrue because the realisation of all the projects that are in this Budget is under way and you will see their realization by the end of the year. As far as the government is concerned, there is no vision of economic development for you. This is also completely incorrect because the government has a very clear vision of economic development whose results are already visible from statistical indicators today. Statistical evidence that unemployment has fallen below 300 thousand unemployed. That the coverage of imports has crossed the 50% limit, which is a significant statistical indicator. And the third incorrect quote was not given to the peasants, but we gave them a concrete 800 million kuna which you owed them last year, and you did not pay them back. We paid them off at the beginning of this year, not to mention the harvest, etc., and everything else that's been done.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-17-0.u25460	Thank you very much, Comrade Matušić. counterpart Lalic is reporting for the breach of the Rules of Procedure again. Please article, item.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-17-0.u25461	Thank you, Madam Vice President. It is the same violation of the Rules of Procedure and that paragraph 9, 209 of Article...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-17-0.u25462	Excuse me, item?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-17-0.u25463	Paragraph 2 of Article 209 is replaced by the following: And as for, fellow peasants, we paid the peasants 400 million kuna compensation from the elemental disasters... In the fifth month, we paid them a 99-year harvest. [[You can't hear the phone.]] Stop doing politics, and as far as the ministry's performance is concerned, you're right. This is the implementation of the budget in 6 months, but fortunately we have tomorrow's budget for 2005 so the 2004 alignment will show that my allegations were very...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-17-0.u25464	I'm asking you nicely not to throw it away. I think here every MP is actually talking about himself. You have indeed begun to go with the corrections of allegations that are not so, and also with violations of Rules of Procedure which are definitely not so, you present your discussions and opinions under the article. Clearly, it is difficult to determine each time, it should really insist on a literal speech, which I will not because I would really like the debate to run in quality, so that you can express your opinions. But once again I invite you, colleagues and colleagues, stick to the Rules of Procedure and stick to the speech that looks like the Croatian Parliament. Thank you very much. We're going with a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, colleague Tomljanović.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-17-0.u25465	Madam Vice President, the Rules of Procedure have been injured twice, and that in turn...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-17-0.u25466	An article, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-17-0.u25467	A little bit.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-17-0.u25468	A little bit, yeah.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-17-0.u25469	Yeah, a little bit. All those 209 articles have been injured in the first row, which regulates the infringement institute of the Rules of Procedure. Because the distinguished representative under this board, therefore, the violation of the Rules of Procedure in this particular situation at all, you have neither pointed nor injured the Rules of Procedure, but you have persistently replicated it. And if in the first case it was an opinion, in the case of a colleague, it was not an opinion but a correction of your incorrect factual assumption. I mean, Madam Vice President, this is the second time in a row. In fact, it is a replica of the correcting of the incorrect allegation, if it is repeatedly repeated that the abuse of the correction of the incorrect alleged, this is an example from counterpart Lalic of the abuse and abuse of the Institute of Injury of the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-17-0.u25470	Thank you very much, I can agree with you in part. We are going with the corrections of the incorrect quote, representative Ivana Roksandić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-17-0.u25471	Thank you, Madam Vice President. So here's a whole series of incorrect allegations that would correct the ones that the colleagues pointed out. Ms. Lalic said that this government is insensitive to young people, people with disabilities, that they are put on the sidelines. But this government is not insensitive to young people at all. This government has launched a whole series of projects for young people, launched a whole series of marriage, family and youth counselling centres, but I remind you that this is the budget in six months, or actually in three months of this government. And to run something takes time. So, believe me, this government is going to implement a complete program.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-17-0.u25472	Thank you very much, colleague. We have another correction to the incorrect assumption. Representative Maria Byte. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-17-0.u25473	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Namely, respected colleague Ljubica Lalić in a number of incorrect allegations in which she spoke and spoke and intolerance in this Croatian Parliament, she said among other things that the economic and political situation was catastrophic, etc., arguing her allegations. However, I am correcting the quote, "The report ahead is for the first half of 2004". We all know well, and also colleague Lalić, that it was temporary financing for the first 3 months until March and that we are actually discussing 3 months, and it is used for the whole year. So I'll just remind my colleagues Lalic in correcting the incorrect assumption that only the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy where he was the resolution minister from the colleague's party was returned only for 2003 over a billion kuna for milk, livestock production, fishing and plant production. That there has been an intervention in the purchase of extra-suspected heroines and pigs, that the programme of the raising of grassland, vineyards, orchards and olive groves, that it is a unique register of domestic animals, that the harvest and purchase of wheat for 2004, and that the Ministry of the Family is really incorrect what the colleague is saying because we have started programs for multi-member families, for young people and children, and only for children and young people is 7 million kuna 975 thousand this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-17-0.u25474	Thank you very much, colleague. Here you go, colleague Lalic. Re-injury of the Rules of Procedure. These seem to be new methods of reporting for word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-17-0.u25475	Well, I'm sorry, Madam President, which is the only thing you're warning me about is incorrect behavior. In all these corrections of incorrect allegations, there were actually no incorrect allegations and you know it very well and you know that you have violated both Articles 210 and 214, but it does not matter. I'm just saying that to a fellow colleague of the esteemed Byte, you didn't take away your word because my colleague byte had denied herself, this is the point of the agenda of budget implementation for the first six months. I was talking about it, using the data the government gave, and what happens by the end of the year, we can talk about it tomorrow, but the picture won't change.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-17-0.u25476	Thank you very much, colleague and colleague. I think it's wise to move on. Next up is Representative Miroslav Korenika. Here you go, my colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-17-0.u25477	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government. I must say that every budget is a political document that can be legitimateized by every government and parliamentary majority that it wants to do. I gotta say, I'm gonna be a little different than my colleagues, come on, this government has a vision, and in my opinion she has a wrong vision. This government is able only to show that it does not show the implementation of the budget. So, we're going from a few thesis and a few numbers, and I'm going to say right now that I'm not going to just say that I don't want to immediately replicate or correct my allegations by some of my colleagues, who claim that this is the beginning of the year, the first six months, what I'm going to say, unfortunately, all of us are about the middle of this month that we have a 0 in certain positions. We are all aware that we have a large number of people with disabilities working who need professional rehabilitation and who need to be employed in some way, I must say that it is really embarrassing that from the estimated 9 million kuna to today no kuna has been spent. I think it would be very polite at least if certain ministers or representatives of individual ministries were to explain to us what the reasons are, why so. I can accept for the first six months what we're discussing. We had temporary funding for less than three months, however, when the government came with its majority, it said that it had finished programmes and that it would immediately get into the essence of the problem without a problem. Unfortunately, we have the first six months where we all swear that we should do something for young people, we are aware that our craftsmanship and small and medium entrepreneurship are crying out for staff, professionals, students, and at the same time to encourage the work of vocational schools to perform 0 kunas. To encourage also local development projects, to execute 0 kunas, will it say that local communities have not run for projects, on the contrary, only when something is running simply says no money or say we don't know when we're going to solve it when we're going to give the money. Development of the activities of entrepreneurship centres. And in Varazdin County, among other things, there is an entrepreneurial centre, we see an execution of 7 million kuna, unfortunately until today's execution of 0. I'd like to hear what the reasons are if those money wasn't spent. We're coming by the end of the year, still the money hasn't been spent. The same thing is about encouraging the development of entrepreneurial incubators. We have a whole series of municipalities and cities in the Varazdin parish running for these funds, unfortunately, obviously someone doesn't want or can't or can't give money to local communities to spend that money on development. I would ask for an explanation which is the reason that for the plans and programs of master exams to date, despite swearing in the development of craftsmanship why no kuna, not a single lip, has been spent to this day. We talk a lot about young people so that the promotion of the entrepreneurship of young people and those tiny little millions of kunas are not spent until today. I don't think we should say that our craft workshops need to be more quality to enable students to be taught, however, and for them, to this day has been spent, behold, 0 kuna. I must say, I'm particularly bothered that no money has been spent in agriculture in certain parts until today. So I understand for the first six months that happened and that's what we're discussing for the first six months, but I'm also warning you to the day of today, the items I'm talking about still haven't been broken. For example, a project to build a fishing wholesaler. We ourselves know the state of our fishing, and we are constantly complaining that fishing as an activity within agriculture is lagging behind and simply not being able to place fish, often throwing fish, despite all the difficulties, the Ministry has still not spent these miserable million kunas in order to achieve a fishing wholesale project, similar to farming in aqua culture. I would like to hear what explanation it is that it is not there, it is similar in the education on agriculture and fisheries as it also seems in our agriculture there are no interested in education for, to develop, to thus advance Croatian agriculture. It is a similar matter with co-financing of the construction of the Croatian Veterinary Institute building. Again, we have received information from infectious diseases, trihinosis, everything else that is going on in Croatia, it is obvious that the veterinary institute should be the bearer of all activities with the state inspectorate and everything else that such incident situations do not occur, however, until today none of the money has been spent. We swear that we will not genetically modified food, however, the equipment for identifying GMOs in seeds and we know that we have had an affair with corn until the day of today, not a single kuna of the estimated million kunas has been spent. We are all talking, one of the important projects of the Croatian government that is at least said is the irrigation programme. The irrigation system from the estimated 4 million kuna to the day of today has not been spent, nor has it been spent. I would also ask the question given that regional development was also meant to spend money and I would like to hear the reasons why the counties have submitted requests, to spend money, to get them which reasons they still haven't come to, which are the criteria they have to meet and that money is being placed. There is more to the story, however, that I am not taking away neither your time nor my time I will end up with my personal opinion means the Government is also proving its ability by spending money from the budget because this is also how projects are realized. DO NOT rephrase or correct my allegations to me what I was saying and look at the state budget materials with the date of November 10th of this year of this item that I spoke of to this day have not been spent. In the end, I end up obviously saying that the government's budget, unfortunately, shows both incompetence and incompetence because otherwise I would still understand in six months, but in ten and a half months, I can't accept that most of the items I've been talking about are simply not being met. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-17-0.u25478	Thanks a lot, buddy. Next up's Agent Pearl Perman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-17-0.u25479	Thank you, Madam Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, in my debate, I will look back on some parts of the expenditure side of the budget, on activities programmes and projects that have been spent negligible or no funds. Although some of these activities have already been shown by many colleagues, I still feel the need to warn them once again, and I hope that in the debate on the annual budget implementation for this year, we will still have a slightly different picture, although I doubt that given this picture we received from the budget material for the following year, where it is seen that in 11 months of this year, as my colleague Korenika mentioned, it is not often important to change the situation. I don't know if these programmes will remain as they were just declarative nature in order to collect political points of the ruling coalition but also without real will or knowledge, better said to be carried out. I think the public will be able to judge in the end how expensive it was. So in Section 20 of the Government of the Republic of Croatia in Chapter 25. The Office for National Minorities, it is evident that national minority programmes have spent just over 4%, and for Roma programmes over 5%. I am surprised by these percentages, given the fact that national minorities, and thus the Roma are not news in the Republic of Croatia, and thus the state programmes are not about them, not a newspaper that takes time to live up to and follow in practice. In Section 25, the Ministry of Finance for Border Crossing Construction Projects has spent only 12% of the projected funds, if we know what state some crossings are and what capacity they have, or traffic flow, I really don't understand why. Next in chapter 15. Tax administration, it is evident that about 30% of the funds are spent on tax administration facilities. When I had an amendment in the adoption of the budget for this year asking for a reduction of this item by three million kuna in favour of the Coksara Bakar decommissioning project, it was rejected with Mr Shuker's explanation that, quote: "If we want a better and more efficient tax administration, then we need to secure funds." I wonder why these funds are not really spent on the extent to which the budget is foreseen. In section 46 of the Ministry of Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity in Chapter 6, care for defenders from the Homeland War, it is evident that the orthoptic and other medical aid was spent less than 17%, for the rehabilitation of Croatian military disabled persons in hospitals and state offices for defenders zero %, for the employment of defenders only 9%, and for the maintenance of the facility and apartments only 3%. In Chapter 15, the protection of family, motherhood and youth is a whole series of projects for which no single lip has been spent in the first term, although many colleagues have already mentioned some of these items, I will repeat them again. So, for example. No lipa has been spent on the Children's Council, on monitoring and improving policies for disabled persons, on projects for multi-member families, programmes aimed at children and young people, and the Alimenta Fund for which 20 million kunas were foreseen has been established and there is no law on it, and for 2005, there is no budget plan at all. Obviously, it gave up on him. The string can continue with projects that have only been spent symbolically on about 5% of the projected funds. These are the Government's committees for people with disabilities, for the prevention of child behavior disorders, for the affirmation of rights and protection of children, for the right to inform persons with disabilities, for the improvement of the quality of family life and for the development of family services and for the protection of abused families. There are youth policy projects spent below 10%. For the whole chapter 25, the Intergenerational Solidarity Administration spent an entire 0.3% of the projected funds, i.e. intergenerational solidarity 2.5%, and for the development of service activities for the elderly 0.4% and for the living room for the elderly also no lipe. The question is what is this ministry doing and what is Mrs. Kosor actually so proud of when she points out the success of her ministry's work. During the current morning at the beginning of this session, Lugaric attacked counterpart Lugaric for ignorance and ignorance when she asked questions about this issue, but the fact remains that these are official data from the Government of Croatia for the first half of this year. In Section 50, the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship in Chapter 5, the economy, for the decommissioning programme of Koksara Bakar, was spent only around 17.5% of the projected funds. I'm asking why? How and when such a dynamic investment will be decommissioned in the first place. Minister Vukelic refused my amendment, which I asked for, to increase the funding for this programme, with the promise of redistributing funds within the ministry to complete the decommissioning, i.e. the recovery of the terrain from pollution. I don't know what's going on with that promise, and obviously I don't have anyone to ask right now. I would also like to highlight the positions in the same ministry as the ones that have not been spent on certain programmes in relation to the plan. That's what's in chapter 25. The Croatian Employment Service for Joint Investment in, for joint investment in the employment of young people at local level, envisioned 2.7 million. For head 30. Fund for Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities 21.6 million. And within chapter 35. A small and medium entrepreneurship craft for a whole series of concrete promotional activities and entrepreneurship programmes, e.g. Women, entrepreneurial zones, beginners, local projects, vocational and master schools and the like, were foreseen for 73 million kunas, so a total of around 110 million kunas for which no single lip was spent. In section 60. The Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy in Chapter 5 of Agriculture and Forestry has a whole range of projects whose percentage is also zero. In fishing, warfare, livestock and their development. And for head 15. The water economy is projected to be close to 20 million kuna for programmes including water kastries, irrigation, inland waterways, flood protection, and others for which no kuna has been spent. In division 100. The Ministry of Health and Social Care for HIV-infected programmes and activities, i.e. AIDS-infected, provides for funds of around 8 million kuna. The realization of these programs is, you guess 0%, and the dangers of this disease really don't need to be discussed further. In chapter 6, social care is a number of nursing homes for children who have not received anything or just crumbs, or about 10% of the estimated 8.5 million kuna. It's a similar situation with welfare centers. In Section 116. The Regional Development Fund is seen to have spent only 4 of the estimated 118 million and about 3.5% respectively, and no county has received any kuna for regional development. Advocates for children and gender equality with 25 and 23% of the planned funds, respectively, are not able to carry out the planned programmes for which they are competent. It's questionable if I can even carry them out at all. In view of the fact that, as with the staff of the Ombudsman, they are provided for resources to work very limited while at the same time rebalanced and further reduced, the question is whether the Office of Advocates even has a purpose under such conditions. And finally, I want to know when and whether the Information Security and Cryptoprotective Technology Institute will work at all, the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data and the State Department for radiation protection which are intended for the items of the budget, but in the first half, nothing has been invested for these projects. Although it is obvious that I will not get an answer to my questions, in the end I wonder, will this budget as a reflection of the seriousness and knowledge of the ruling furniture really run Croatia, or is it just another cinema performance for built Croatia under the system "wait for the donkeys to grow grass?". Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-17-0.u25480	Thank you very much, dear colleague. We have corrections to incorrect allegations. She is the first representative of Ivanka Roksandić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-17-0.u25481	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, I don't know, I'd have to correct the rhetorical question of my colleague Perman who said what Mrs. Kosor was up to, if nothing was seen from this budget. Well, Mrs. Kosor is in the business of restoring maternity benefits, increasing social rights, restoring the rights of defenders. The next correction to the incorrect assumption is that in the area where social care centres are located, it is slightly spent. Yes, because these are decentralised funds that according to the requirements of the welfare centre they withdraw from the state budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-17-0.u25482	Thank you very much. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-17-0.u25483	Thank you very much. My colleague hurt her.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-17-0.u25484	It's an article.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-17-0.u25485	A colleague injured Article 209(2). The Rules of Procedure, because she was correcting my opinion, not the quote. And about Mrs. Kosor. And you did not take away the word from her, so you also hurt the Noble Messenger. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-17-0.u25486	It is according to this article that only I can violate the Rules of Procedure if I do not warn a colleague or a colleague or any chairor that he does not adhere to the agenda or that he does not correct the incorrect allegations. I hope the presidents of clubs and parties reminded you of the agreement of the extended Presidency of the Assembly, I will ask you colleagues to hear the answer I'm giving you right now. Can I talk to you for a second? I'm trying to talk to you, but you couldn't hear me. All right, you've been distracted justifiably I see. So, I'm trying to explain that the agreement of the extended Bureau of Parliament was such that we do not insist on a literal speech so that we do not often interrupt unnecessary warnings, and I will stick to that agreement with the extended Bureau of Parliament. I expect you members of your clubs to get that information. Let's move on. He's reporting for another correction of an incorrect quote, Dr. Bagaric, please welcome your colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-17-0.u25487	Thank you, Madam Vice President. This is one in a series of incorrect allegations relating to health care and social care. You mentioned that item for the prevention of HIV. Since it is not, since these funds have not been used for this purpose, it is therefore not true. The funds were used for prevention purposes. However, they were found elsewhere, i.e. from a donation, and it is not a sin to resuscitate funds and use them where they are more necessary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-17-0.u25488	Thank you, colleague. Let's move on with the debate, it's the representative Ivana Sučec-Tracostanec. She's not in the hall, she's losing her word. Next up is Mr. Representative Marko Shirac, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-17-0.u25489	Madam Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. The report on the half-year implementation of the state budget is a significant segment of the budget control that gives the Croatian Parliament the highest representative body in the state an insight into the extent to which the State budget funds are spent legally, rationally and purposely. For that reason, I was surprised by the negative assessment of one of our colleagues in the opposition, about this debate, so I, so here I must point out that the government is based on Article 125. The Budget Act submitted a report by 5 August this year. Thus, we could talk about the budget long ago during the month 9. September to discuss, but why not, these are the consequences of circumstances, because we discussed some other points of the agenda. In order to fully look at and assess the success of the collected revenue in the first half of this year, it is necessary to refer to several macroeconomic indicators previously. Of course, in the first place it is a gross domestic product that has actually increased by 4.2%, which has been contributed by all sectors including the fact that a 1.6% drop in state spending has been recorded at the same time. The only agriculture sector recorded a negative growth rate of 0.9% and this is the result of a large drought last year. The physical volume of industrial production in the first six months has seen a 3.8% growth. And the tourism sector also recorded a strong activity that was greater than 10%. Also in those first six months, we had an increase in the average net salary by 4.2%, and the average pension was recorded with HRK 1950. Although we were still facing a high external trade deficit in that time, it was noted that in the first term exports increased by 14.4%, while imports increased naturally by 4.1%. There was still a problem with the deficit of the state budget and the total foreign debt, which at the time reached $24.2 billion and, of course, only further over time, the government managed to stop that growth. The above-mentioned macroeconomic indicators reflected the implementation of the state budget and the growth of 5.9%, the total revenues of the central budget, respectively, compared to the same half-year in 2003. 36.9% of billions of kunas were made to represent 44.9% of total planned funds in 2004. We see that in the first six months, budget revenues mainly moved in line with the plan, with some of the revenues being achieved and more than 50% of the plans for this year. First of all, it is about income from income tax, property tax, sales tax, and revenue from the sale of goods and services. On the other hand, the most undercut revenue from excise duties and income taxes, which the government has taken appropriate steps to do so and reduce the black market for oil products and tobacco products, and we expect results in the second half. Also income from concessions for the third mobile network and dividends for the shares we have in Croatia Telecom are expected in the second half of 2004. To point out that the value added tax revenue has been realised at 13.8 billion kuna, i.e. 45.5 of the planned amount for this year. This is certainly one of the most significant budget revenues and accounts for 37.4% of the revenues achieved in 2004. Now allow me a few more words about the income. It would only point out, with 14.2 billion kuna achieved, i.e., with 48.1% of the plans for this year and a growth of 8.4% of the social contribution achieved and it also makes significant revenues of the budget. Given the expenditure side of the implementation of the State budget for the first half, we see that total expenditures have been achieved with 40.9 billion kuna, which makes up 49.2% of the planned expenditure for this year. That execution represents a 9.5% higher execution compared to the same period in 2003. If we promote the structure of expenditure we see a more pronounced social component of the State budget for this year compared to the previous period. In fact, 53.9% of the expenses incurred are social benefits. In the first six months, 22 billion kunas, i.e. 49% of the 2004 plan, were reached. These expenditures also increased by 1.2% compared to last year's period. The expenditures I also want to highlight are for subsidies, and they are achieved with 46.3% of the plan and are growth of 11.3 compared to the previous year and in most cases these are incentives and subsidies for agricultural production. 88.6% more was spent for this purpose than in the same period in 2003. The aids were implemented with 46.7% of the annual plan. One of the expenditures that is very important, which refers to expenses for the acquisition of non-financial assets, or so on. Capital expenditure, all for the 31.8% plan. The implementation of these programmes is expected in the second half of 2004 and this is followed by the law of prescribed preparatory actions such as public tenders and others. Let us remember that for the first 3 months we have done business with the provisional budget, and in the 4 months that we have brought about the budget rebalance, therefore, there is very little time left for the budget to be realised. And finally, on the basis of this whole series of data, we can express satisfaction with the dynamics and way of implementing the State budget in this half-year. The more the failure of certain items stems from the very nature of it, i.e. the fact that it is generally only the course of the second term. It is a series of programmes that are under way, and it is necessary to conduct tenders and other preparations. This will achieve its fundamental objective, retaining macroeconomic stability and fiscal consolidation through a reduction in the general government's budget deficit compared to the previous year. I will definitely support this government report. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-17-0.u25490	Thank you. Honorable representative Vlado Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-17-0.u25491	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. Here we are today discussing, therefore, the implementation of the budget for the first six months of this year, and of course it is read from all the debates that this debate is somehow shadowed by the expectation of what will be tomorrow. That is, therefore, the debate on the 2005 Budget Proposal. The data also refers to the period for the first 6 months. Today it is November 17th, so they are of course in some of their segments and outdated, but they are much more realistic and much more realistic and can be analysed both the revenue and expenditure pages of the Budget if we also use those materials that we have received for tomorrow's debate, which is therefore the conclusion of positions with a date of 10.11. this year. The final assessment of the quality of the achievement is calculated, of course, that we will be able to do so only after the end of the accounting period. It will be the Implementation Report for 2004 as a whole. Since the budget consists of several thousand positions, each of these positions and sub-positions would be discussed and analysed for reasons why something is or is not. There's been a lot of criticism here about the fact and it's been said, the budget isn't developmental, it's not social. Of course, the budget is a reflection of some policy, of course that certain arguments or thee are used in the debate on the Budget to win some political points, and of course in the context of the upcoming election campaign for the presidential elections, and of course that there are those positions for which Mrs Jadranka Kosor's candidate is responsible, Mrs. Jadranka, are somehow the most affected. Only in 2005 will the 2005 Budget be the first full budget to be qualified to be discussed and for which the Prime Minister Sanader's government will assume full responsibility since the government then has had a crucial impact on the way the budget looks from the beginning. I will remind you that for the period from 1 to 3 months, the decision on temporary financing was in force, which is the revised budget, i.e. the revised quarter, i.e. one quarter of the budget from the previous period. Of course, it was the budget of the previous government, but this government was also obliged to implement it in its term of office. So there's 50% of the time that we're looking at today, in some way, and the period where the coalition's previous calling was in place. The opposition's views would suggest that all that is good is the result of good work as a former government, but all that is wrong is the result of the poor work of Prime Minister Sanader's government. Of course it can't stand. Of course, everything is not ideal in this government either, but what's good is I think we should admit it anyway. It is also necessary to recognise the many burdens and weights left to this Government and this Budget from some previous periods. So it's also mentioned here 2 billion kunas of outstanding liabilities, signed collective agreements at the end of last year, which came at the expense of this year. One hundred million kunas in this year's paid incentives, and they're related to the last year. And anyone who has been responsible for the production and implementation of the budget in the analysis for 6 months must take into account the number of limitations and seasonal character of individual positions both on the income and on the dispensary side. This applies both to agriculture and tourism, so if you want a pre-Christmas consumer fever that affects the income side of the budget and taxes on consumption, public tenders for which it takes some time, especially after the Government has been established, also on rebalancing, etc. Data show that 45% of income and 49% of expenditure have been achieved, and that is, in addition to those favourable global macroeconomic indicators, the guarantee that this budget will be achieved globally as planned. He of course also has a development component, he also has a social component, of course, within how much the revenue side of the budget allows, but this development and social component should also be seen. So the budget is feasible and I urge you to support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-17-0.u25492	Thank you very much. Replica, distinguished representative Ljubica Lalić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-17-0.u25493	I thank Mr. President, an esteemed colleague in his debate wanted to create an impression as the opposition conspired against Mrs. Jadranka Kosor's presidential candidate. It's not good to spread messages like that because no one has ever conspired against anyone and what we've been saying... It's not insinuation, it's just numbers. [[The speech room's off, you can't hear it.]] The item improves the quality of family life and the development of family services, so the family is the foundation of society, so we welcomed the establishment of a family ministry that needs to be cared for by this foundation of society, family eroding is the erosion of society, but only 58 thousand have been invested from the planned 4.5 million kuna. Multiple family members, so much needed that there is no extinction of the Croatian people of 2.5 million kuna, the domestic abuse of that evil that is ever more present in our society... than the millions planned and 300 invested only 4 thousand kunas. Furthermore, not to mention the numbers of young people, namely the Ministry of the Family has several administrations, including the Administration of the Family, the Administration of Intergenerational Solidarity, not one or more of all administrations just invested something for the defenders, these other administrations simply did not invest, so it is not an attack on the presidential candidate that is facts, figures.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-17-0.u25494	Thank you for your response to the replica, dear representative Vladimir Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-17-0.u25495	Well, of course I didn't come up with my argument the way the opposition conspired against Madam Jadranka Kosor's presidential candidate, because if I wanted to, then my debate would have looked quite different. In one context of the budget debate, I mentioned some impression that I at least acquired, at least I'm sure and a series of colleagues sitting here about where arrows go the most. I am quite certain that our viewers who are following this debate can also evaluate and assess that it was not my intention. And as for specific positions or sub-positions, it is really possible to find in one document that has several thousand positions a series of those which are not achieved in a satisfactory way, but let us remember that it is a 6-month period, of which 6 months is the period of three months, the first one where the fourth of your budget was in force in the previous period, it is about preparing the campaign and preparing activities that create the infrastructure and the assumption that money can be spent in the next period and when we evaluate the achievement for the whole year I am sure that we will be able to discuss it in a completely different way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-17-0.u25496	Thank you. Dear representative Nevenka Majdenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-17-0.u25497	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen. The assessment of the state budget of the Republic of Croatia for the first half cannot be generalised as half of the achievements for the whole year and for several reasons. First, that natural production cycles in some branches are seasonal characterization or extend unbalanced throughout the year. Secondly, the impact of certain branches of production, agriculture, tourism, shipbuilding, on the movement and growth of gross domestic product is measured only after the end of production or season. Thirdly, the fiscal impact on budget revenues can also be assessed later. As a result, I am more of an analysis of the achievement of the state budget to be monitored through two parallel periods, previous and this year,... as a semi-annual achievement of the plan for the current year. Starting from that point of view, we see that budget revenues were achieved in the first half of this year by 5.93% higher than in the same period last year but that the increase was evident in almost all types of budget revenues. The unquestionable fact is that these budgetary revenues were greatly influenced by macroeconomic revenues in the first half of this year. Industrial production accounts for a growth rate of 3.8% and other sectors, apart from the ploy economy, have contributed positively to the overall growth of the gross domestic product. In agriculture, this is also normal given the cycle of production and that results can only be measured after harvesting crops. Also, good results have already been recorded in tourism by the end of May, 10% more arrivals and 10% more overnight stays have been achieved, and the season has not even begun. In particular, I would like to point out that a more favourable ratio of imports and exports was recorded in the period from January to May than in the same period of the previous year. During the observed period, export growth of 14.4% was recorded while import growth was 4.1%. Other economic indicators in the observed period show an increase and positive structural change, and it is realistic to expect that the budget will be fully realised by the end of the year. On the expenditure side of the budget, the positions or programmes which have been continued or continuously represented in the budget have been properly implemented. The programmes that are new in the budget and for which the ministries were to be organised have not been spent since the budget was adopted in the 3rd month, so the incorrect constant mention of these neutrino funds has been made. But it will be spent by the end of the year. On the basis of this, I propose that a half-yearly report on the implementation of the state budget for the first half of 2004 be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-17-0.u25498	Thank you very much. Honorable representative Nikola Sopčić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-17-0.u25499	Thank you, Mr. President, colleagues and fellow MPs. I support the mid-term report for this year on the implementation of the state budget submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. With this, as colleagues stressed, it should be taken into account that this budget practically applies from 4 months this year, because we had temporary funding for the first quarter. It is positive that before that side is well planned because it is seen according to the amount achieved, amounting to 36 billion 944 million kuna, which is 44.9% of the planned revenues in the first 6 months. This is an indication that the budget is well planned and I believe that it will be fully achieved by the end of the year. More reason for this achievement. So we have an increase in industrial production of 3.8% compared to the same period of the previous year, and we are particularly looking forward to the fact that the biggest contribution made by the processing industry is 4%. We also see the volume of construction works that increased by 8.9% compared to the same period last year, which is the main reason why the increase in the volume of works on the construction of transport infrastructure is primarily on the construction of highways, so that there are not all those remarks to stop the construction of highways, on the contrary, it goes on. We also see an increase in the tourism segment of 10% higher arrivals and overnight stays of tourists compared to the same period of the previous year. There is also a decline in the number of unemployed compared to the first 6 months of 2003 by 7.8%, so the unemployment rate was reduced to 18% in May this year, and in a later period it still falls so that for the first time we have a decline in the number of unemployed below 300 thousand after a long time. We also record salary growth in the first 4 months of this year compared to last year, nominally at 6.1%, and realistically 4.2%, as well as pension growth for the same period, nominally 6.9% and realistically by 5%. We also note better coverage of imports, exports of 45.7% in 2003, and 48.7% in the period from January to May this year, which is significantly more favourable. The fact is, as many colleagues have pointed out, that certain items, expenditure items of the budget are not fully realised in the planned amount for half a year, but that is a number of reasons. The basic reason why this budget is practically well-set by certain obligations that have come to be charged this year, which, for which practically certain arrangements have been made by the former government. So basically this government is now making its own independent budget for the first time that we're going to discuss tomorrow. From the above, I support the mid-term report for the first 6 months with the belief that all or most positions will be realised by the end of the year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-17-0.u25500	Thank you. Dear Representative Ivan Lučić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-17-0.u25501	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. The state budget is one of the basic documents of one policy, one government, which shows the programme of one government policy and also from the implementation of the budget for a certain period of time sees the implementation of that policy or government, which acts as a government in the state. It is certainly clear from the implementation of budget 1.6 for 2004 that the revenues of 45% and the expenditures of 49% are realised that this government of Prime Minister Ivo Sanader is making its pre-election promises, especially if it is known that the 2004 budget was made at the beginning of the 4th month and that three months this year was a decision on the provisional financing of the budget. From the implementation of the budget 1.6.2004, it is evident that industrial production growth is 3.8%, that export growth in this year is the largest so far, and what is particularly looking forward to increased income from profit tax, which gives us the guarantee that the economy in Croatia has done much better. The unemployment rate is lower and what certainly makes us happy is an increase in employment. So, according to the budget, it is seen from the budget that it is brought as a developmental one, that it has been adopted as social and all of those forecasts that were in the budget that will break by summer, that it will not be possible to implement any items, that this government stops with investments in Croatian highways in Croatian roads, in the Croatian railways, which is certainly not true and that we should be glad not only as members of a political party, but all of us should be happy because we represent Croatian people, Croatian citizens in this state council, and it is certainly good that all projects go further that they are not stopped, and in some projects such as railways and Croatian roads, and it is visible from the Budget for the next year this power will invest even more. So no project has been abandoned, no project has been stopped, all projects are moving on. From fellow MPs, their discussion shows that science is neglected and that Croatian defenders are neglected, that the social component of the budget is ignored, some items in this large budget are quoted as zero. Well, we know from experience that the budget needs to be looked at throughout the year, and I'm almost sure that all the ministries in this government will meet their budget, and it's certainly the most important thing for the budget to be fulfilled, and then the expenditure certainly doesn't need to be much worried, the expenditure side was never a big problem anywhere, not in the units of local self-government, and neither do I hope it won't be in the state budget either. What we achieve will certainly be spent on development, science and the social. I personally support this budget, and I must say that I am pleasantly surprised with its execution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-17-0.u25502	Thank you very much. Honorable representative Mato Raven.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-17-0.u25503	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Although in 6 months, although it is a very short period of time during which it may be a serious analysis, especially after the change of government, this report really precisely shows that the expected results are missing and the results of the current government, but also the largest part of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, and that we are from the SDP Club and also the opposition here in the Croatian Parliament, unfortunately, rightly expressing concern when this budget is adopted. It is evident from the implementation of the budget that development projects have been stopped, that even such modest objectives are not being achieved, that the plan is in significant participatory, that because of the restrictions of human, organisational and other changes, the planned funds are not being spent, or that they do not come to end users or rather do not close the cycle. How by my predecessors a lot of things are said I'm going to concentrate and point out a few important facts. Firstly, the growth index is a reflection of the investment effort, but also of the effects of the former government, but also of the toughness of the economy itself, especially of small and medium-sized enterprises. Of course, I do not exclude the efforts of this government either, but I am particularly emphasising these two elements, because simply in a few months, however significant the efforts of the current government were not or can be expressed to a significant extent. It is expected that it will be more visible only in the next and next years. In view of what I've already seen, although I'm not personally sure about the same thing, we have to trust the government's promises that it will be positive and, of course, in the upward trend. Secondly, it is irrevocable that the observed period lacked complete development, that quality projects were stopped, that investment was stopped in the economy, especially aid to the primary exporters, that there was no support for restructuring the economy,... their competitiveness etc. Thirdly, it is undeniable that the strategic projects of this government, such as only the strong statements of the present ministers, irrigation, water supply, land management, conservation of nature, waste management, various records and catastres, land-keeping, particularly regional development, are missing. Unfortunately, in addition to the promises, the support they aim to facilitate living and working conditions for many categories of citizens of the Republic of Croatia, from disabled Homeland War, youth, pensioners, certain ethnic communities above all, which unfortunately live so hard. When it comes to young people, I will only mention the House of Children in Slavonski Brod for which only 200 thousand kunas have been secured by the rebalancing system and which, to this day, have not been spent according to my knowledge, and children continue to live under the existing very difficult conditions. The lack of social and any other sensitivity I hold to this occasion is too much to comment on. I find it unnecessary to protect any heights for any reason, at the very least, to speak incorrectly. When this nature is compensated for the damage only for example and for those minimum amounts caused by elemental disasters, the situation becomes even clearer. I note that despite the fact that because of the rationalization of the consumption of time, I do not represent numerical indicators here, and this time I am not talking about the impression but in fact. In this way I could... I could present this report with a number of other arguments, but since we've heard a lot of things in previous discussions, I'm going to conclude with the impression that the government in the first six months for various reasons has not been able to say the least. If figuratively speaking, because of the large number of zeroes in many of the budget executions, I would say less important by way of the railway station, and it maintained cold drive and necessary passing, and the realisation of development projects and a better life had been left for some other time. How soon it will stand out and how successful it will be, we will see tomorrow at the adoption of the state budget for next year. And in a few months, when we analyze the implementation of this budget on an annual basis. I hope that's when the usual story of the sins of the former government, the former government, will be left behind, because it no longer serves anyone. Citizens are interested in tomorrow's perspective, and it's always known who's responsible, the current government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-17-0.u25504	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Bozidar Pankretic. He's gone. He's losing his word. And a respected representative of Ante Markov on behalf of the club. He's gone. He's losing his word. Thank you very much. I'm concluding a debate on this point. We continue at 15.00 hours with the 2003 Programme and Financial Report of the Croatian Olympic Committee. Report on the implementation of the state budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2004 for the first half of 2004. The debate is closed. I am voting on the following conclusion: A report on the implementation of the state budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2004 for the first half of 2004 is accepted. Please, let's get on with it! Please vote. The result? I find that the report was accepted by 79 votes to six abstentions and 27 against. We have another proposal for a conclusion along with this Proposal for a Law of the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities, please, which reads as follows: The Government of the Republic of Croatia is obliged to comply with Article 37. The Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities provides the Croatian Assembly with a report on the implementation of the Constitutional Law and on the spending of funds provided in the national budget for the needs of national minorities. Mr Vice-President, please choose to demonstrate yourself on this proposal for a conclusion proposed in accordance with the government's obligations under the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities, the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-17-0.u25506	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-17-0.u25507	Thank you. Please vote on this proposal for a conclusion. Let's get involved first. Score. I find that with 88 votes in favour, 18 abstentions and 2 against the proposed conclusion. Third. Please, colleagues and colleagues, please. Ladies and gentlemen, we will proceed with the session. The Programme and Financial Report for 2003 of the Croatian Olympic Committee is on the agenda of the Report, in accordance with Article 34. The law on sport was delivered by the Croatian Olympic Committee. You received the proposal by mail. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Finance and the State Budget and the Family, Youth and Sports. You received the reports at the session. The government delivered an opinion. I would like the President of the Croatian Olympic Committee, Mr. Zlatko Mateša, to further explain the report.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-17-0.u25509	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, briefly. What do you add to this report? Perhaps this debate has fallen in the best way possible, although there is almost no I have told my colleague and colleague, but there are no MPs and advocates, right? Between the debate on budget implementation and the new budget. It would be a good opportunity to demystify investment in one activity and objectify it in the best possible way, but I will try it all one way, I will try to make it so effective and it does not take much time for the president of today's extremely difficult working day of the Assembly. The conclusion is that, in Croatia, all social activities are at least isolated for sport. This thesis can be very easily proven by figures, for example, if we look at the allocations for sport at national level between 1999 and 2003, what we should argue is that it is constantly and persistently falling in all indicators, so that in 2003 we came to a total of 0.05% from the budget for sport, and in a narrow sense for the part relating to the Croatian Olympic Committee only 0.03% of the budget. Or if we compare it with some other countries comparable to us, then I can tell you that the percentage of gross domestic product in Croatia is only 0.30%, so 0.3% of gross domestic product. For example, in Slovenia it is twice as much as 0.6%, in Hungary it is 0.6, without talking about these countries that are members of the European Union, and now these two, where it is multiple times more. If you look at it according to the number of inhabitants, i.e. euro-by-eurs per capita in various countries, then you would see that in Croatia, for sport, it stands out for 1.82 hours, for example in Cyprus 12 euros, in Hungary 2.5 euros and in Poland, for example, 3.8 euros. So much for statistics. If we look at the budget of our own Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, then from the budget of our own ministry the total separation for sports that goes through the Olympic Committee is not even one percent of the budget of our ministry. So when the big money debates are spinning in sport, then you can easily conclude from this data that there are a lot more activities in this country and where there is much more money. Now about 2003. As for 2003, what you see in this report I will not comment further, it should only be pointed out that it was the first year of consolidation after the change in the Croatian Olympic Committee, that at the end of 2002 there was a near bankruptcy I would say to the Olympic Committee. The debts were very large and these debts were due precisely to what I'm trying to explain to you, the differences between programming tasks and what is objectively possible to finance. At that time, a programme of financial, legal and organisational restructuring of the Olympic Committee was remedied through the intervention of Mr Racan's Government, which led to results that led to the fact that we have a complete financial health situation and that we can function normally. The Croatian Olympic Committee only finances international performances of national species. The Croatian Olympic Committee does not finance any clubs or club competitions like this immediately and we resolve this issue. There's a lot of questions about clubs. We don't finance it, and it doesn't belong to our work. If you are looking at these physical indicators for 2003, you can see that of these international competitions that are almost 600 a year, that our athletes won 351 medals at world or European championships or world and European KUPs, which means that almost every working day, one of the Croatian athletes or athletes won a medal of glory, gold, silver or bronze, and when you put it in relation to financial indicators, then you can see that the average price should be allowed to say it under quotes, one of our medals, is somewhere around 20,000 euros, so at the level of one lower middle class car. As for the financial statement, you can see on the revenue side, the revenues of the Croatian Olympic Committee are based, i.e. come from three basics. The first is the budget, that part has not changed for many years, the second part are games of chance where the problem exists that part of these revenues from games of chance goes from getting the Croatian lottery, and the profit as you know is the accounting category, the gain may be, may not be, may be larger, may be smaller, depending on how judge within the house and the third part are their own incomes. We are most now working to raise these own revenues and to work together with the Ministry of Finance to ensure that this revenue from gambling is consolidated and that it gets one recognizable feature in all versions, and I must say that in today's financial situation, the role of the transfer of government and Prime Minister Sanader to the Athens Olympic Games has been crucial to ensure that our performance is absolutely good, organised, immaculate and leading to five Olympic medals. Here's so much about this report. If you have any questions, I'm at your disposal. Otherwise, the State Audit works regularly as for each other users budgets their reports and we are in some way under their control. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-17-0.u25510	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to see it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. A SDP representative club, a respected representative of Biserka Perman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-17-0.u25511	Mr. President, Mr. President of the Croatian Olympic Committee, colleagues and colleagues. Right at the beginning I should say that it would be good to extend this programme report from naked programmes to the overall work of the Croatian Olympic Committee and its bodies to obtain a full picture of the work of this often neglected body and of the unjustly minorized roles of its role in the overall education and formation of young people's personality. The report most often says that certain programmes are being done, but not what has been done specifically or where they have been achieved in the implementation of certain programmes. Given the shortcomings I will make in the debate, the SDP Club will be restrained when voting on the adoption of this report. The section on the national sports alliances programme when it comes to the work of the National Sports Alliance's Office, says among other things that the Office has taken special care of the implementation of national sports alliances' programmes, the creation of conditions for preparation and performance of top athletes and national selections. I don't know exactly what was meant and how this problem was taken care of, if I know, for example. that the Croatian bowling alliance could not have prepared a junior team in Đakov in 2003 because of the outstanding costs of preparing the 2002 seniors amounting to about 30 thousand kuna, which unfortunately failed to realise for more than a year. It is also said that there are three meetings of the Committee of National Sports Alliances where a new Regulation on the categorisation of athletes, the various aspects of the individual programme and the draft of the Law on Sports was discussed, and that the National Sports Federation Assembly was held. However, it is not stated what the results of these discussions are and I am asked, in fact the question is why at least these results are not taxed in this report. If we are talking about individual programmes of special care for young people who are covered, which included a total of 50 athletes from 16 sports in 2003, it is not visible what criteria are for selecting these perspective young athletes, i.e. who determines these criteria and under what conditions can be entered into the project of individual programmes. Does the fact that this Programme covers only 16 sports mean that there are no prospective athletes, or qualities in international competitions, in other sports? Speaking of the status issues of athletes here, a thousand 550 requirements are mentioned for resolution of the sportsman's category status. The question arises as to why unnecessary administrative barriers are also put in place when the criteria for categorisation are very concrete and the certification of categorisation are actually a formality, but many athletes unfortunately also have obstacles to the achievement of status rights in the environments in which they live. Because you've been waiting a long time to confirm the category. I personally experienced one such experience when, in the 3 days of my stay in Zagreb and the Croatian Olympic Committee, I unfortunately failed to get confirmation of the category, and it was actually almost a form in which the name of the athletes, club membership, the competition which is the basis for the category as well as the period of the status. So 3 minutes of work, and the latest example is that, about 2, 3 months ago, I received confirmation of the category for the World Cup results in May 2002. You heard right, in May 2002, I received a category solution two months ago. So, two years and a few months late. If we are talking about the vitaminisation of the supplemental diet program is very well processed, but the question is whether this program is consumed only by a few sports without any more systematic access for the whole sport. If so, why is that? The problem of non-organising doping control of each professional association of individual sports related to medical services is mentioned, but I think it is understandable given the costs and chronic value of national alliances. It is obvious that it is not about the inconclusiveness of understanding of the problem but about the inability to implement it in practice precisely for financial reasons. Within the framework of the local sport-enhancing programme, certain activities related to local sport and sport of children and youth are listed, but still without concrete conclusions and results of these activities. It would be good to state how far it has been reached with the Register of Sports Buildings, as it states in the Report that it is working on the construction of the Register, as well as on continuous cooperation with local sports communities. Therefore, it would be good to know where in this activity and how and how co-operation with local sports communities works. In the field of recreation, sport for all, I think the idea is extremely good, but I don't understand why this part covers representatives of only 5 counties. It is a pity that no representatives from all counties were present, i.e. that this action was not carried out permanently. As far as the area of the Children's Sports and Youth Council is concerned, the idea is really great. The idea of promoting sports spirit at the earliest age, so in kindergartens and this action should certainly continue. The table review of the financial report shows that all around 15% of the planned funds have been spent to promote local sport, but the text of the Report itself shows that all projects have been successfully implemented. I wonder if then the costs are poorly planned or is it the magic of people on the Croatian Olympic Committee? If we are talking about the work of the report on multisport programmes, referring to the work of the Olympic Programme Office, which has worked on a number of multisport events as well as the extensive preparations of the Athens 2004 project, I think that the Croatian Olympic Committee should do more as a roof organisation of Croatian sports and help in the media and marketing promotion of international events of a multisport type as well as the performance of athletes of less-exposed sports branches, i.e., under quotes, small sports at major international competitions in order to further affirm as many sports branches as possible among children and young people as possible, and not only focus on engagement within Olympic sports sports that already have a well-developed and developed methodology of media and marketing monitoring within the sport alliance itself. This is also said in the section of the report concerning marketing programs and this my thesis on promotion of only Olympic sports is confirmed. The Croatian Olympic Committee could and should achieve this task by its authority as institutions and people working on it, as well as through its publications such as "Olymp", "Olympic News" and other professional or commercial publications in which it participates as an independent publisher or associate. Within the framework of the joint programmes, speaking of informing the system of sports, I believe that the Croatian Olympic Committee should professionally and financially help everyone, I repeat, all sports alliances get their websites and thus further affirm sport at all. And there's a similar situation here as in sports at local level. According to the report, only 17% of the planned funds have been spent on information, and all the basic objectives have been achieved. How? Is the plan deliberately too high or are the gentlemen of the Croatian Olympic Committee truly magicians? Furthermore, training and professional staff training programmes should be implemented permanently and systematically, not symmetryally for all sports, so that if the problems of the location of staff and finance are, for example, a key can be established in which certain sports carry out training in a given year, i.e. human training, so that, for example, they come to order every 4 years. So it would be possible to provide a greater number of professional people who, especially in small sports, are chronically missing. And to try to conclude, the Financial Report shows that the resources achieved are insufficient for more quality steps in improving the work on sports promotion, as well as for more quality and extensive implementation of already drawn projects and programmes because, as we know from the state programme, Mr President pointed out for years the same at the level of 30 million kunas from the state budget, and I will, in my amendment to the state budget, advocate for better treatment of sports in the Republic of Croatia and thus for the realization of some of these proposals and ideas that I have put forward during this debate. Here, I hope that some of these ideas will enter the next period of work of the Croatian Olympic Committee and that perhaps something about the amendment that prepares for the state budget of the Republic of Croatia will still be included for next year so that we can bring sport to a higher level in the Republic of Croatia at all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-17-0.u25512	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community, Honored Representative Franjo Arabovic. Here you go. I don't see 2/3 of the hall now.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-17-0.u25513	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. President of the Croatian Olympic Committee, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. The Croatian Democratic Community Representatives' Club discussed the Croatian Olympic Committee's programme and financial report. In this regard, I would specifically refer individually to the programme and individually to the financial report, the Report of the Croatian Olympic Committee. As this report mentions significant problems in the functioning of the Croatian Olympic Committee, the work programmes of the Croatian Olympic Committee can be said to be somewhat adequately financial and monitored. A large number of requirements on sports statutes have been resolved. Every sport and especially high-quality requires the use of proper and high-quality nutrition. In view of the excellent preparations, it includes multiple daily training and a very dense schedule of regular diet competitions, additional nutrition and use of vitamins, minerals, amino acids, and the use of energy drinks for faster recovery approved by the World Health Organization and the Food and Medicinal Products Association. The furthest thing has gone on in this report when it comes to doping control. The Croatian Olympic Committee has its own programme, it is organized and covered anti-doping service for all major competitions. However, there are still disagreements between the sports alliances and the Croatian Olympic Committee which do not inform the Croatian Olympic Committee of the anti-doping controls of their athletes carried out in foreign competitions or in countries from other anti-doping organisations. Within the framework of the programme community in the field of sports, children and youth, it is not enough to constantly encourage, promote the idea of Olympicism. It should begin with organising small Olympics for younger children to play student games. I'm thinking if these games of children and youth were adequately media-accompanied so that there wouldn't be a problem with funding. It is known that the media have an important impact on the marketing programme itself and on the financing of the above-mentioned games. The Croatian Olympic Committee has no task of promoting only sport, its mission is to promote and connect the cultural values of the state. When we talk about financing, on the financial report, the Ministry has accepted this report but with the reserve and taking into account the State Audit report and the proposals to establish the appropriate internal control body for the purpose of spending financial resources in accordance with the criteria of the evaluation of sport programmes. So far, work on the Croatian Olympic Committee has been centralised through the statutes, in a way that one person has decided less on everything. According to the current information available, a new statute is under way, which I congratulate Mr. President Mateša who will decentralise the whole business and include the Council of the Croatian Olympic Committee as much as possible in the decision-making process. In addition, I am familiar with the new, as well as you, with the new Proposal for a Law on Sport, whose purpose is to shape a system of sports in Croatia, to determine the responsibility of the resolution ministry and the NGO of the Croatian Olympic Committee, which should work according to the current talks and how they are now being done, and I hope that soon there will be recorded results. Accordingly, the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community proposes to the Croatian Parliament to accept this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-17-0.u25514	Thank you very much. We're going to an individual debate. Dear representative Ivanka Roksandić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-17-0.u25515	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. President of the Croatian Olympic Committee. I'm just going to say something for a little while because here I feel the need to celebrate these days for sport one significant date that is the 130th anniversary of the introduction of a regular teaching of physical and health culture into the school program, so I think I have to say something in that segment. In this Report there is also that report on individual programmes of special care for young people who included in 2003 50 athletes and 16 sports, but the report does not show what sports and athletes are doing, perhaps to us who are not directly in sport would be interesting to us. Encourage young people to practice sports should be one of the main tasks of the Croatian Olympic Committee. Encourage children and develop habits at the earliest age, as my colleague Franjo said is indeed one of the basic tasks not only of the Ministry responsible for sports but also of our Croatian Olympic Committee. So I will welcome that action of yours from last year, which is listed in the report on the first Olympic children's kindergarten festival of Croatia, the event was held in 17 cities, and I happened to participate in one of these events in the town of Sisak where it was really well welcomed and I would like to express my belief that this programme of the Croatian Olympic Committee will not be interrupted but will also be extended to lower age and therefore to elementary schools, high school and colleges. So this kind of action really needs to be supported. In the report, although I know the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports is involved, there is nothing about school sports and in Croatia a school sports club works in every elementary and high school. What is the role of the Commission for Sport and Children and Youth from this Report is not seen in particular. Young people today are threatened with everything that surrounds them, alcohol, drugs, which is present in everyday life but I think it is sport that can positively affect young people, so we should also create conditions for sports. What are these conditions, here we have a projection of the 2005 Budget and I hope that the Croatian Olympic Committee will also, in cooperation with the Ministry of Science and Sports, finally launch this Regulation on standards of sports facilities, that we will complete this rule and that we will have standards that are a prerequisite for creating conditions for sports. Some local environments have also realized that they are involved in this problem themselves, create these conditions, open new sports halls, open and take a whole series of actions to open and build school sports playgrounds. So realizing that the privilege of sports should not be the privilege of young people living in larger areas. I can say from personal experience that we have launched action in our county in every, in every small place in every village to build a school playground or if possible sports hall. Here is the final wish to be put into office of all, not only school children, so all athletes, I believe that the funds shared in the Croatian Olympic Committee will also be shared in the coming years and in the next budgets fair to all sports. Unfortunately, I don't know enough so I can't talk about the criteria for which sport the funds are allocated but I also hope that the control of the spending of that money will be greater. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-17-0.u25516	Thank you very much. And the esteemed representative Danira Bilic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-17-0.u25517	Thank you, Mr. President, Mr. President of the Croatian Olympic Committee, colleagues and colleagues. When we talk about sports in Croatia today, there are two inevitable topics. The successes of Croatian athletes and the financial resources needed to realise these successes, so I will look back on these two things in my debate. On your benches there is a programme and financial report of the Croatian Olympic Committee for 2003 and already in the opening sentences of this report it is concluded that in the programme and financial sense it has been successfully completed in the past year, i.e. that in 2003 the enviable sports results of Croatian selections and individuals were achieved and that sports programmes were adequately monitored and the current financial commitments were settled in time. This seems to me to be the key thing of this report, because it is quite certain that the leaders of the Croatian Olympic Committee, despite the inexplicable financial situation of Croatian sport, have managed to find an optimal way of optimal action in which athletes, the most important players of sports were not significantly cut off and the conditions for achieving the success of this report are detailed. It is quite clear and visible and not only from this report, and it is a fact that should be highlighted certainly and welcomed. We cannot and cannot remind that just in 2003 it was a key preparatory year for the 2004 Olympics when Croatian athletes achieved the greatest successes of Croatian sports since our independence, winning five medals at the Olympic Games in Athens. It seems particularly interesting to me that the Croatian Olympic Committee has achieved almost 8.5 million kunas of its own income, which cheers and encourages, in addition to 30 million kunas from the state budget. According to the information that I have in 2004 on behalf of the main people of the Croatian Olympic Committee and such a large amount of their own incomes have managed to surpass significantly. It seems to me that in the reality of the economic situation in which we are located and without the millions of transfers that the Croatian Olympic Committee certainly does not realize, the marketing and non-profit revenue side of the Croatian Olympic Committee is certainly worth mentioning and respect. I think there are few associations in Croatia and at the same time users of the state budget who manage to achieve such their own revenues, which is certainly positive because it is obvious that the Croatian Olympic Committee does not rely solely on the state budget and is able to make its own income. If I were to give information now that the state of Croatia is only out of the budget of 1.82 euros per capita for sport, and that countries such as Cyprus with 3 euros, Hungary with 5 euros or Austria with 6,49 euros far ahead of us by means of the State's allocation for sport, I would be tempted to engage in a debate with the means with which the state supports sports in Croatia and the HOO, but I think it is better to save it for tomorrow's debate for, when we discuss the budget, I think it's a place and time. However, I would like to point out something else that I find very important. This debate, as well as a recent debate on the Law on Sports, should foster a serious and systematic debate in the Croatian Parliament on a number of sports issues in Croatia. Such a debate should take place precisely in light of the country's greatest sports successes. Sports success is just the tip of "sante ice" or "fasade" which hides many problems and unsettled situations and issues in Croatian sport whose solutions must also be sought in this Assembly. Sport is an area of special interest to the state and the state should encourage a serious, continuous and systematic debate on sport. This is certainly the strategy for the development of sports in Croatia, the development of a multi-year development programme and activities in the field of sports in Croatia and a serious, professional and scientific approach to Croatian sport. I stress, just this last, professional and scientific approach to sports in Croatia. In fact, the sport in Croatia in the last 15 years has largely been subject to the surgical action and improvisation that in the long term cannot provide optimal conditions for further development and improvement of the position of sports and athletes in our country. In the lack of funds, the Croatian Olympic Committee probably did not realize any kuna of the estimated 350,000 kuna in 2003 for the item entitled Development Research Projects. Yesterday we witnessed great discussions and thoughts expressed at the first Congress of Croatian scientists in the country and abroad where the unanimous conclusion was, only science can and should ensure further development of Croatia. Sport is also an area of social activity that is studied, explored and developed, and does not seem to be directed to leave fate, to miss the fate of a great Croatian sport of improvisation and song action. Developmental research projects should not be bypassed and they should become and be as priority as it was concluded yesterday that science should become and be a priority area for a small country such as Croatia. In conclusion, the Croatian Olympic Committee as the roof body of Croatian sport last year acted invisibly organisational and structural level and I believe that this report should be accepted. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-17-0.u25518	Thank you very much. Does the president of the Croatian Olympic Committee want Mr. Matesha to look back? No, I don't. Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. Programme and financial report for 2003 of the Croatian Olympic Committee. The debate is closed. I give the vote the following conclusion: The programme and financial report of the Croatian Olympic Committee for 2003 is accepted. Please engage. To vote. The result? I find that the report has been accepted by 98 votes for and 16 abstentions. No against the vote. Ladies and gentlemen, I am told that since these names are going, we have an electronic print where they can be seen, every representative has a club, as each representative voted on every proposal that was voted on. Let's move on.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-17-0.u25521	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished representatives of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, colleagues and colleagues. Apparently a very small topic, I believe that there will also be little interest in the discussion of the Report on Regulations adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of legal authority, but we at the SDP Club believe that this is an extremely important constitutional and legal problem, an extremely important political moment as to the relationship of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the Constitution and the law and the relationship of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the Croatian Parliament. That is why, firstly, a constitutionally defined issue, a regulation that the Government can adopt on the basis of the powers of this Parliament. For example, in Article 4 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the United Kingdom, of the other part, of the other part, of the other part, of the other part, and of the other part, of the other part, of the other part, of the other part, and of the other part, of the other part, and of the other part, and of the other part, of the other part, The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, In Article 70, point (a) is The Croatian Parliament is the representative body of citizens and holder of the legislative authority in the Republic of Croatia. This Regulation shall enter into The Government of the Republic of Croatia shall exercise the executive power in accordance with the Constitution and the law. However, in the life of a country, and thus Croatia there are certain situations in which it is necessary to act quickly and efficiently in order to prevent serious savings from occurring in the country in its citizens, and in such cases, in general, there is a deviation from the declared principle of trio of state authorities. Thus, in Article 100 of the Constitution, it was given the constitutional authority of the President of the Republic to adopt in the event of a war situation regulations with legal force on the basis of and within the framework of the powers conferred by the Croatian Parliament. It is also similar in cases of direct threat to independence, unity, the survival of the Croatian state or when the authorities are prevented from performing their constitutional duties regularly. However, such authorisation, the constitutional authority of the President of the Republic must be submitted for confirmation to the Croatian Assembly as soon as the Assembly can meet. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia with many restrictions. Therefore, Article 87. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia gave the possibility for the Croatian Parliament to authorise the Government of the Republic to regulate certain issues from its work, i.e. from the Parliament of the Republic of Croatia. That authorisation may take a year at the most, that's the first restriction. The second restriction of the Regulation cannot take place backwards. Third restriction that regulations cannot regulate issues which fall under the Constitution under the exclusive jurisdiction of the Croatian Parliament, such as issues of human rights, fundamental freedoms, national rights, electoral system, as well as the establishment and division, the manner of work of state bodies and local self-government. Third very, fourth very important note. The regulations shall cease to apply, to act within a year, please nicely, not from the time of the adoption of the regulation, but from the entry into force of the legal authority, the adoption of the Law authorising the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Of course, these constitutional and legal solutions have different views. But mostly everyone agrees that determining the government's authority should be taxing. But let us let the profession see what the Government has done in these two regulations that we are discussing today. The Government of the Republic of Croatia adopted the Regulation amending the Road Transport Act when there was no reason to do so when it was possible to prepare for the Croatian Parliament to extend the deadline on the need to comply with this Act for a period of time. The government extended the deadline by that Regulation by one year. Such an authorisation simply did not have the government to extend the period of the Law until 24 July 2004 by one year until 24 July 2005. The government's authority at that time was only until the 10th month of this year. Therefore, the government has exceeded constitutional authority, the authority of the Law on the Authority of the Government of the Republic and the Law itself. In this way, the government, past the Croatian Parliament's will, led to the delusion of citizens of the Republic of Croatia, by carriers who had to comply with their status to the Road Transport Act. To make things worse. The new proposal for the Law on the Powers of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which we adopted at this session, this session of the Croatian Parliament, did not strengthen the Government's Regulation, where the deadline extends until 7 months next year, but was only extended until the end of this year. This led to an even greater confusion in the legal system of the Republic of Croatia and led to the error of legal persons who had their business or individuals, natural persons, entrepreneurs, who had to comply with the Road Transport Act by the end of the 7th month of the following year. It is hard for both high-level lawyers and those with a whole legal tool to handle themselves in such a state of law. However, the next Government Regulation, the law supplementing regulation, please, the regulation supplementing the Law on the Communist Economy, has the pretense to regulate the law completely permanently. So, neither the spirit nor the sense of government's authority, the government did not respect the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, so under a Regulation that would cease to act, the government authorised the minister to permanently regulate this area for his lawyers. Within the period of validity of the Regulation of the Government of the Republic, which, under the Constitution, must be limited when the Regulation ceases to apply, the Regulation adopted by the Minister in charge will cease to apply, under the Law will cease to apply. We have once again made life miserable for the users of the Law on the Communist Economy. In addition to the rules of the profession and the legislator of the theorists who have been in favour for 13 years, the powers of the Government of the Republic of Croatia shall specify the reasons and circumstances under which the Government of the Republic of Croatia may adopt regulations with legal force, that is to say, during a period when the Croatian Parliament does not meet or when it is pre-election time. We do not think that we can accept regulations that do not encourage legal certainty and that we cannot accept regulations that the Government oversteps the authority given by the Law on the Powers of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and, in particular, which are contrary to the spirit of the Constitution on the triodition of government in the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, the SDP Club cannot support the Report on the Regulations of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-17-0.u25522	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Club, the respected representative Krunoslav Markovnović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-17-0.u25523	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! Well, I wouldn't be dealing with the legal side anymore, even though it can be interpreted one way or the other. Finally, we see that the Constitutional Court also makes some decisions from five to three and so on, so there are always different opinions. But maybe it would be better to deal with the regulations more. First of all, one regulation and the other regulation should facilitate, the first regulation should make it easier for carriers really one interspace where they were found, the question and why they found themselves, whether the law on amending and supplementing the law was welcome or not welcome, whether it came at the right time, whether there was enough time and I think it was well done. Also, the misunderstandings with municipal contributions were for all of us who work in local self-government so that this will also come in handy. So it's two regulations that I don't think affect the stability of the state or the rest, but I'm still saying it's going to mean a lot to the users. Regulation amending the Road Transport Act, which was adopted two years ago with a duration of just over two years, with a period of validity of two years and a Regulation supplementing the Law on the municipal economy. If we're looking at why the government extended for a year then there's a whole series of reasons. Finally, I think it's all clearly written here. Some of us can, some of us would like to do another apostrophe. So, they supported the established deadline for harmonising and prolonging for a year, it should be said, because they supported the Chamber of Commerce, the Chamber of Commerce, supported the counties, also supported the carriers themselves because they obviously failed to do so either. Namely, here's the information. 2,000 700 passengers are in international road transport and 400 carriers are transporting passengers. So if we stop it all together or if we reduce the drastic number that the team is dealing with, we're going to have a lot of people who are actually going to be out of a job. One of the problems here is parking. Let's just remember, we were all giving some kind of confirmation based on grant extracts, catastra extracts and the like, a piece of meadow or something else was enough to get a license to transport. In the proposal on amendments and amendments to the law, this changes significantly, so parking must be the right parking, which is safe, which we support, but the question is whether enough time is given to transporters to arrange their parking lots, to have protection. It must be protection from both waste oils and so on. And that's why I'm guessing this is gonna do them a hell of a lot of good because most of them didn't do much of it. Some couldn't, some ignored, etc. Then, here is another thing that is very important in the provisions of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Transport Act in road transport professional training. It is interesting that the amendments to the law are scheduled to be passed, but this exam was only started last year. Now, take for these more than 3,000 carriers it's very difficult to organize the passing of exams or one part that is clearly not qualified so that and again I repeat it will be useful again. The law is coming. It is in preparation for the adoption of a new Road Transport Act. It should be in line with European Union legislation and in this way, in fact, another time out, I think we should support it. In the Law on the municipal economy, therefore the second regulation is an important calculation itself. So it's calculated by the volume of the municipal contribution and here it needs an emphasis on this sentence that's being built on the building particle. I think all those who deal with these things mean what they're talking about and there's a lot of buildings that aren't just on the coast, but in the interior they're collapsing, and it's clearly about construction, about replacement buildings. It is precisely defined here because, in different ways so far, the contribution has been calculated as a difference in volume compared to the previous building. So again, one clarification that will be very useful in the budget, when calculating municipal contributions. Another important thing was that in some parts of Croatia, they had tremendously raised the price of municipal contributions. Clearly, municipal, self-government units to local municipalities and cities, never enough money, so they went where they were built with high prices. The second is our opinion whether it's good or not is good or mine personally. And here it is finally deposited, so the day is some ceiling, there can be no more than 10% of the average cost of building a square metre in the Republic of Croatia and this information is published by a minister whose part is a communal economy, which I think is good. One clue was that even though the pool wasn't built much, it was built. Here, fortunately these pools are somehow nothing. How to calculate them and here is the same good thing instead of our questions to the ministry all the time how to calculate and what to calculate here is it well written. According to the square meter of the floor area and the buildings, the unit value of the municipal contribution for the calculation of its area per square metre expressed in kunas is equal to the unit value of the municipal contribution to the calculation per cubic meter of the building. So it's three times lower than it is for a square meter of apartment or business space. I don't think it should be too complicated here because one and the other makes it easier for transporters first, the other units of local self-government in the calculation, and that is why the Croatian Democratic Community will support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-17-0.u25524	Thank you very much. HNS-PGS representative Alenka Kosisa-Cicin-Shain's club. She's gone. The club loses its word. Dear Representative Dragutin Lesar. He's gone. He's losing his word. Dear Representative Krunoslav Markovnović. ... You're giving up the debate? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Yeah. Thank you very much. Do the government want representatives? No, I don't. ... Yeah. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Mr. Snotty, go ahead!
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-17-0.u25525	Dear Mr. President, MPs! The consequence of this Regulation is, as you have probably seen in the context of this Regulation, obviously a presumption, a mistake, there has been a nomotechnical adjustment of the text of one amendment of the Legislative Committee to which these provisions have been deleted and there is a legal gap left. As far as legal uncertainty is concerned, it will certainly not come because the government, or the ministry, is preparing a new law and this regulation will be within the time limit allowed by the Government's power law. Here, that's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-17-0.u25526	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative Joseph Leco. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-17-0.u25527	Mr. President, the government's representative is quite incorrectly calling for a mistake in the Croatian Parliament's will. As far as the Croatian Parliament's mistakes are concerned, if the Government can determine that, then she could send it to the Parliament to verify it as her mistake and not to change the law unauthorizedly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-17-0.u25528	Thank you. The Secretary of State at the Ministry must be Mr. Drazen Breglec, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-17-0.u25529	I thank the years of the President, the honourable ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. By the powers and legal capacity of the Government to adopt regulations with legal force in the change, in this particular case on the amendment of the Transport Road Transport Act, I would not be able to replicate it because it was obviously from the debate and this resulted in a number of years of practicality since democracy began in Croatia. On the other hand, on the content of the regulation itself, I ask you to understand that at the time more than half of the carrier failed to comply within the time limit of its operation with the provisions of the Regulation that it is absolutely simple to pragmatic action such as to amend the regulation in that case. The strict implementation of the regulations in the opposite case would lead to the necessity of abolishing further business activities and abolishing actually business opportunities that should stop their activity. Any application of force according to compliance laws within the meaning of the Regulation which was the deadline of the end of July of this year would simply not be possible in practice because intervention instruments in several thousand carriers would not be possible to implement. I think it is perfectly understandable why this is, and such a provision of such a prolongation of the deadline was necessary to pass while, on the other hand, the new Law on road transport which passed the first reading on this Assembly will be further detailed and quite certainly before the deadline in which this Regulation has extended the application of the Law of the Old, so the new Law will set this up before that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-17-0.u25530	Thank you very much for closing the debate on this agenda point. Report on the regulations adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of legal authority. The debate is closed. I give the vote the following conclusion: A report on the regulations adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia is hereby adopted on the basis of legal authority. Please, let's get on with it. To vote. The result? I find that the report, the conclusion, has been accepted; 78 votes in favour, 7 abstentions and 28 against.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-17-0.u25533	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. You have before you a proposal for a draft, a proposal for a tax on income proposed by this law, so it is proposed that the rates remain the same, but what are the basic amendments to this Law is proposed to increase the tax share from 1500 to 1600 kuna. I must immediately say here that this proposal and the Tax on Income and Profit Tax is a reflection of the current budgetary possibilities of the Republic of Croatia's budget. The increase in the non-taxable part of 100 kuna is 850 million less revenue in the state budget or an increase in the non-taxable part from 1500 to 2000 kuna as was the proposal of our social partners and trade unions is 2 billion and 900 million kuna less in the state budget. And that budget just can't handle it right now. What I would like to say when we talk about changes to these two laws, income tax and profit tax, in income tax we cannot just look at its reflection on the budget of the Republic of Croatia, it is far more important to see the effect of these tax changes on the budget of the units of local self-government. For reasons that over 60% of local self-government units, their 70% higher income is a contribution to income tax. Therefore, any significant change to the Income Tax Act is not as difficult for the state budget as it is for the local self-government units' budget and any significant reduction in the income of local self-government units should be compensated by an increased share in the income tax that is denied in favour of local self-government units, therefore, that amount is a double cost for the state budget. So we suggest that the non-taxable part be increased from 1500 to 1600 kuna. We also propose non-income receipts under the new law. Therefore, these are family pensions made by children after the death of parents according to the rules on pension insurance of dividends and the share in profits based on the share in capital. So, this is one decision that has also caused the division of opinions, particularly those interested, but it is very important that most of the expert public supports this provision for the reason why we believe that Croatia will become far more attractive to investors by removing the dividend tax. And the remarks that the elimination of dividend taxes is going to contribute and that, in addition to those who want to extract capital from Croatia, we need to ask one conflicting question is whether profits can be achieved without investment in the workplace and without the creation of new jobs. So, in order to even come to profit, you have to open a job, you have to get a job, these new employees have to get into a situation to make a profit, that profit has to be paid 20% of the profit tax and then you can only discuss whether that profit as such will stay in the firm or be extracted from the firm. Therefore, the intention of the Government of the Republic of Croatia is that, with this decision, the Republic of Croatia, given the reliefs that I will talk more about when I talk about profit tax, becomes one of the most attractive countries to invest in the tax on capital. And what is very important is that, with this provision, we also want to encourage domestic investors who have available funds and foreign investors to invest because it is no longer in Croatia such a situation that there are no ones who do not want to invest in capital search. And most importantly, we are trying to revive this way and the slightly frozen capital, which is the saving of Croatian citizens, which at this point is about 10 billion euros and we want to encourage a different investment of these funds. Money prizes for winning medals at the Olympic Games, as well as world European championships paid out of the state budget and budget of the unit of local and regional self-government. This is a provision that simply defines a legal option that has not been clearly defined so far, i.e. that the state rewards, surely that rewards like this, are primarily public rewards to clearly define that such rewards that are single do not pay income tax. Receipts of students and students to regular schooling with work and through student students' associations to the prescribed amount, sports scholarships paid by special regulations to sports athletes for their sports training up to the prescribed amount, trade union and social assistance paid out from the funds of the union membership fee to members of the union. And what I want to especially highlight is the introduction of a second income category. The introduction of a second income category primarily extends the basis of those who need to pay taxes. This category of second income will firstly be covered by copyright fees for payments under special law, fees for works delivered and what I particularly wish to highlight for singers and athletes. And it's not this bill of law to make any submissions to this, but to say loud and clear that this area has so far not been defined by law, no legal provision has been defined how and in any way to tax, taxing the profits of athletes and singers. So we even had a case in the past months when a colleague, Biskupić, changed the provision on who needs from the state budget of artists and singers to pay pension and health insurance that the state paid pension and health insurance to those who had over several hundred thousand kunas of earnings because it was not legally defined and was not regulated. So under these provisions, the second income is proposed to recognise 30% of the flat rate, and that the other 70% of the income tax is paid without the obligation to submit tax returns by stressing that the athletes who have registered such a contract here will have to define with them a minimum of health and pension insurance, which has also not been resolved so far and hundreds of young athletes have not been resolved either pension or health insurance, nor is it who has been paying in their way, and ultimately from such unresolved legislation is a debt of 700 million kuna, which at this point sports clubs owe to the Republic of Croatia on the basis of the 2000 inspection finding. When various profits are set in one way or another, records are made, debts have survived, however, the question arises whether a Dinamo or Hajduk can pay 400,500 million tax debt today. Zagreb 50, 60 million and all other football clubs or not to talk about basketball women's and men's clubs that are treated the same way. Income from property, property rights is proposed to tax the income of renting apartments, apartments and rooms, bed for travellers and tourists. This is one new category and it is in agreement with the Ministry of the Sea, Tourism, Transport and Development. So the possibility that those who rent up to 10 rooms would be allowed to pay a flat tax, and for those who have more than 10 rooms, they would still pay a 15% tax with 50% of the cost. I must say that this activity, renting rooms is at this point practically out of control. And not this year, and not last year, but a long number of years, and we think that in this way with the proposed solution at the end of the day, it is a proposal primarily for people from the profession that we will expand the base of those who need to pay income tax and ultimately that we will record renting and rooms and apartments in such a way. Special reliefs of liberation and incentives, members of the families of the dead Croatian defenders from the Homeland War do not pay income tax from the family pension achieved through the Law on the Rights of Croatian Defences. Children who make a family pension in this way are considered in the sense of the tax legislation to be dependent children regardless of the amount of pension. This is a legal provision for which the HDZ Representatives Club has advocated two years ago and I believe that the injustice that was done in 2001 should be corrected and that members of the family of the dead Croatian defenders should be treated in such a way that these pensions are not taxful and that children are treated with dependent family members. Personal deduction for medical needs, purchase or construction of the first residential space, apartment or residential house, maintenance, paid rent, expenditure on paid premiums of life insurance with savings features, supplementary and private health insurance, voluntary pension insurance are recognised in total amount of 12 thousand kuna. So all these personal deductions are accumulated at 12,000 kunas, not so far as it's ever been that each has the right of 12,000 kunas. Why? For one very simple and practical reason. Because these reliefs are used by those who have high incomes. 80% of these reliefs are used by those who receive more than six thousand kunas. Although most of this is a relief, we are not talking about additional health and pension insurance, introduced as a social category. So that's how to help the ones with the lowest incomes. From the analysis of tax returns for 2003, we have come to the realization that, not counting this housing part, 90% of the benefits are used for additional health and additional life insurance. Therefore, when you take the average earnings of the Croatian family, when you take that there are two employees and you take how many per year they can single out for these various reliefs that we come up here to collect that this can be very difficult to cross 20 thousand kunas, and this means that it has the right to 12 thousand each member of staff, it is 24 thousand kunas and we believe that 12 thousand cumulatively allowed personal deductions are something that is reasonable at this point, rationally regarding fiscal power and Croatian citizens' earnings. Also, income tax bonds carrying out their own activity in the area of specific public care of the first group, including the city of Vukovar, do not pay income tax on these activities, and in the area of specific public care, the second group does not pay 75% of the income tax. In third group areas 25% within the time limit of the application of this law. So what if such a proposed income tax law is adopted by the Income Tax Regulation is done is that we will change both the formula and the content of the income tax application. We'll have two applications. One like this, which now contains all the data and one simple on two pages that will be intended for citizens to report these personal... They have a few reasons. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The first is that this way of simplifying the tax system will make it easier for citizens to fill out tax returns, that the processing and control of tax returns as regards the tax administration will be much faster and far easier because we have, with various amendments to the Income Tax Act, come to the fact that in 2003, we had 860 thousand tax returns, practically per million and 400 employees. So 70 practically filed tax returns. That the return on these tax returns was a billion and 300 million kuna, and the obligation to pay according to these tax returns was 350 million kuna. So in this way we will simplify our lives to taxpayers, and we will also simplify the lives of those who, who control and register these tax returns because it is illogical that tax administration, people who deal with control and collection of income from the state budget, 65 to 70% of their time, loses their time for processing tax returns, and the effect is financially as is, in the end, proposed personal deductions on the basis of which I said they were used exclusively by those with higher incomes because frankly speaking hard today, it is possible to talk about a larger group of Croatian citizens who can spend 48 thousand kunas annually in various insurance, health services so that it serves them as a personal deduction. So this is how we feel with the proposed changes that we have simplified the system. That this system contributes to tax bonds and also to payers of income. It is also possible to correct the last salary during the year if, during the year, a personal deduction error has been made, or if two salaries have been paid in one month and only one personal deduction has been used. So with the last payout of 12 months, it can be corrected so that we get in the same situation that we don't have to file a tax return. Here's the ladies and gentlemen so much about the draft income tax bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-17-0.u25534	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Do the work-body reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. We're moving on to a debate. On behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, dear colleague Zgrebec, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-17-0.u25535	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. At first I will say that we actually had very little time to study these two amendments, i.e. new laws of profit and income tax. Which in a few days we will spend in two readings and so only a few hours before we discuss and bring a budget for 2005. I don't think that's good. And I think that should have been done if it wanted to make such changes work far before. By presenting his government and the government's programme of tax reform almost a year ago in this same place. So a year after the year, we've been passing two laws like this at the last minute. The Prime Minister then said that the government believes a full reform of the tax system, which will primarily be in the post of resuscitation of production, is needed. The main goal of the government is said by the president, it will be to relieve the economy by implementing tax reform. The government is firmly convinced that the tax reduction and the overall regulation of the tax system will lead cumulatively and over a period of time to an increase in economic activity to an economic growth of greater financial discipline, as well as better supervision and greater insolvency of the revenues of the state budget. He continues to say that the government will see lower taxes as a key to new relations with entrepreneurship and a driver for the new development of the entrepreneurial spirit in Croatia. And that's all the government said about tax policy. And indeed we expected to get both then and full reform a proposal for tax reform. But what we got. We received a very early reduction in VAT rates which, after not a full month, was such a bill put in place, so it was cracked. We should say our Prime Minister is very confident in the performance when he promises, much less secure in the realization of the promised one. So is the promised reform of the tax system, which aims to tax and increase economic activity. Therefore, the reduction in VAT has nothing to do with tax reform, and it takes far more serious, serious and greater preparation and in law-making but in the preparation of the total infrastructure that should lead to tax reform. Since the promise of tax cuts, therefore nothing, from realisation and tax implementation is the same or greater, let us also remember the increased excise duties that we brought in mid-year to complete the 2004 budget. And what about these proposed laws. The proposer himself, the finance minister, says that changes in one part are the definition of simplifying some ways of keeping records and accounting. And from another old woman, however, there is a kind of relief. The untaxable part of this time, i.e., the personal deduction increases everything by 100 kuna in the changes so far, it was 250 kuna, so from the eight hundred until now to 1500 kuna. Something that we think is not good is giving up taxing dividends. What does that mean? This means that, without paying taxes, they will be able to be paid or, as income, to individual dividends. And that part will be paid only a 20% profit tax. In the current way of taxing dividends, the dividend recipient should have paid another 15% of the dividend tax and then he would have paid an average rate that is paid for receiving non-permanent work, so 35%. It limits the relief to 12,000 kuna per year for different types of insurance from life insurance, supplemental, pension, and health insurance. The interest on housing loans, the settlement of the housing issue, and only on the purchase of the first apartment. Then for sub-citizenship, health services, which could have been used up to 12,000 kuna so far, the minister also spoke of it. We disagree with him to please only those with higher incomes, he's talking about six thousand kunas. Well, I don't think our citizens would agree that rich people receive monthly, monthly incomes of six thousand kunas. Of course, such a law will further affect the reduction of funds to local self - administration. It should be said that income from locals and regional self-government from income tax is actually the largest share in local budgets. At the same time, there are no changes in the financing of local self-government. We estimate that these changes only repair a somewhat existing system, do not contribute to stimulating the development of which the Prime Minister spoke. Or increase the net income of workers. The average salary growth with such an increased personal deduction will only be a few kunas, even I think 10 kuna. Instead of large experiments in the tax system, we propose that in future amendments to tax laws focus on harmonising with the tax systems of the European Union countries. This is multiple if we want our companies to participate in the Western European market, but to have investments in the arrival of their companies here on our t residence. The members of the European Union are increasingly turning to a uniform approach to caution, and the preparation of European stock companies for a united tax system. We think it would be necessary to do so in Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-17-0.u25536	Thank you, dear colleague. The word has a minister of finance, Mr. Shucker. Here you go, Mr. Schucker.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-17-0.u25537	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So a few clarifications and a few data on relief. So when you go into a job like this and you take away already acquired right, then you have to be extremely sensual and you have to have strong aggregates that's the way it is. So I'll just give you a list of personal deductions in which amount and how many Croatian citizens have used them. And then you judge if those with smaller incomes used these personal deductions. So, life insurance payments with a mandatory savings of 110,000 citizens, a total of 365 million personal deductions. The payment of additional and private health insurance to 231 000 citizens, including 186 million personal deductions. But what they certainly use most is the ones with the highest incomes. And that's part of a personal deduction for housing needs. They used 54 thousand inhabitants, but totaled 422 million kuna. So when you add up all these personal deductions, then you'll see that very few citizens with, or almost nothing, receiving below 6,000 kuna, used more than 12,000 kuna of personal deduction. So these are indicators based on 850,000 processed tax returns in 2003. It's not fictional data, it's data filled out by living people. Very little or almost nothing can be said about the percentages, below 3% is citizens who have received below 6,000 kuna, and used higher income tax deductions based on these 12000 kuna reliefs in one year and therefore goes to this cumulative proposal. Therefore, so much as these reliefs, since the most expedient were used and therefore the tax application was submitted is the difference of personal deduction, a total of 106,000 citizens, but the amount of the required deduction was a billion and 600 million kuna or a total in 2003 the reduction of income from various deductions was 3,455,000 kuna. Or let's say one category when I talk about it, that education and professional training expenditures have only been reported by 1,500 taxpayers of nearly a hundred thousand craftsmen in total amounting to $7,195,000. If it were by chance that someone had thought to put an end to that category, there would be a whole revolution. However, when you look at only 1,500 taxpayers, practically not 2% used that possibility to perfect their employees. Rewards to students on practical work, only 408 taxpayers totalling 4 million kuna. God forbid someone mentioned that this award was lifted. However, 408 taxpayers, so 408 craftsmen reported a reward to students at practical work. The salaries of newly employed persons as a relief of 2,800 craftsmen have been reported by newly employed workers. From this it reduced the base of income tax 82 million kuna. So much for the relief we're all talking about is going to lose Croatia's citizens with their cumulation at 12,000 which is simply not true, because the data is different. It is also not true that dividends are drawn without paying income tax, because 25, 20% of the profit proese is paid, and before that other taxes are paid and that is just a different concept that the capital market in Croatia should be developed. It is a fear of those capable and those who are able to create new jobs, provide salaries to employees and ultimately as a reward for all this together have some kind of profit and dividend. It is fear of the capable, it is fear of those who should start Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-17-0.u25538	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Correction of an incorrect allegation. Dear colleague Zgrebec, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-17-0.u25539	Well, it's incorrect that dividends are taxed more, that they're taxed, right here it's said that income from dividends and the stakes won't be taxed. Taxing profits and taxing, whether or not dividends are paid. Well, you just said, fellow Shuker. And data on how many people have used this relief, so not all taxpayers are expected to benefit from the relief. It should be said that this was the first year when relief could be used and that some people did not even keep all the necessary documentation so that in the first year of application of this Law they could use all the relief.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-17-0.u25540	Thank you very much. We're continuing the debate. On behalf of the HNS Club PGS, dear colleague Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-17-0.u25541	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. By preparing a debate on this Law, I thought today in my first reading, I would spend most of my time getting acquainted with the proposals or objections of the unions that they have on this bill, and colleagues should have shown themselves about the position of the Club and what employers think about this Law. However, we gave up the debate of the proposed Law for four reasons. Tax reform has been announced all 11 months, 10 months of this government and every opposition bill that was on the subject of tax, the government has given negative opinions, and the parliamentary majority has rejected all proposals, explaining that the laws that will promote tax reform will be resolved differently, better and more beneficial for the citizens of this country. There are four basic reasons why I refuse to discuss this proposed law, not just myself, but in the name of the club. First of all, income tax is one of the taxes of a group of common taxes in this country, which makes up the largest part of the income of local and regional self-government and in this proposal of the law local and regional self-government, although it has its own associations, municipalities and cities as well as counties, has not been consulted in any way on this Bill proposal, although in the international documents that Croatia has joined there is an obligation of the central government when changing the tax system, when it adopts regulations that directly affect their fiscal revenues, at least consult them. That's the first reason. The second reason is that the tax reform is only partial, i.e. only part of the tax reform package was delivered, because we did not get the draft law on the financing of local and regional self-government from which to see what the new two laws, the one on income and the one on profit means in terms of the income side of the budget of municipalities, cities and counties which are also obliged to adopt a state budget within the same time limit, should they bring the budgets of their municipalities, cities and counties. On the basis of which and which legislation, under which the law on the financing of local self-government does not know or will not change, it will remain old with the new Income and Profit Tax Act. This is another principled reason, and I believe that this approach to local self-government must no longer continue, because we are the ones who are making it an obstacle for them to have the budgets drawn up on the basis of existing and adopted laws in the House. The third reason is that we have a first reading of the Income Tax Act, the point behind it should be the first reading of the Profit Tax Act, and tomorrow we will be discussing the State Budget Proposal, which is obviously drawn up on the basis of the Bill's proposal, and since it is impossible to adopt the budget, if we don't adopt these new laws before then, it turns out that today night, probably by Wednesday night, we will first have a second reading of these two tax laws, and then we will have a first and second reading of the budget and in advance fully aware that nothing can be changed in the budget, because these two laws are a limit on it or we can't change the law, because the budget is done on the basis of the bill's proposal. The relationship has been reached, and when you touch one cube in the mosaic, you tear down the entire mosaic, and that is certainly not what the proposer and the budget and these two laws are going to allow. At least that's how it's always been. And the fourth reason. Skipping the agenda has been the point of many disputes so far since we entered this assembly. One point of agreement and an attempt to prevent the conflict of opposition and authorities was the proposal that only in exceptional cases, with a previous agreement, a point can pop up and repeat its sentence, you have a majority and you can determine the agenda and its order of whatever you want, and when you determine it then respect it. After today’s third item, the draft budget should be on the agenda, not this law. The point has been skipped, the law on budget implementation has been skipped and we go to the following laws that are in order, without explanation, without notice. So if the agenda in this House doesn't mean anything, if we can skip it any time anyone decides, then even the debates aren't too much needed, especially when the points are combined so that we can even adopt the state budget in the reform that was announced in January. And I end up with the next one, I'll probably save a lot of time. Every tax law that we have changed in this term, in three months we have returned to or old as with VAT or made other adjustments until we have seen documents that have bound or established certain obligations of the Government of the Republic of Croatia towards the International Monetary Fund. I haven't found a single sentence in the interpretation of the law that the International Monetary Fund thinks about this law, so I'm afraid to make proposals and amendments and vote for that law and that somewhere in March we have to change it, because someone in Washington won't like it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-17-0.u25542	Thank you, dear colleague Lesar. The word has a minister of finance, Mr. Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-17-0.u25543	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Representative, you do not need to be afraid because the IMF will not determine what tax laws will be in the Republic of Croatia. But it's probably a habit from the past term when your party participated in the ruling coalition and when the budget was passed, and then after the budget tax laws were passed and then it wasn't important for the revenue side of the budget, and today when the Bill on Income and Profit Tax is proposed to discuss it before the budget, it's problematic. So you can look at all the four budgets that were adopted in the term of the coalition government, that your party was in the coalition, so you'll see what practice it was in lawmaking. One thing is that this proposed tax reform in terms of income tax and profit tax will have no impact on the revenue side of the budget as well as on the state budget because the part when I talk about profit tax then I will say about it. So in income tax by expanding the tax base, part of the income will increase, and we also said which part of the income will decrease, and when I talk about profit tax I'll say something here. The second thing, there are no common taxes, there are direct and indirect taxes. There are taxes that are common income, which are State revenue and then the law separates their distribution between the state and local self-government units. So common taxes are a category that neither country exists in the tax system nor in the Republic of Croatia, so there are direct and indirect taxes, and income tax and income tax are the total income of units of local self-government and state budget. However, not wanting to go into further discussions about certain matters, it is very important that certain things have gone with the move ahead, however, the laws started to be discussed before the budget was discussed.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-17-0.u25544	Thank you very much. Correction of an incorrect quote, dear colleague Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-17-0.u25545	Thank you very much. I was just thinking of one quote from Mr. Secretary of State, and I've got two regrets to make. I haven't been back in history and history, and I don't care. If that's your argument ok. First, you said the IMF would not affect the laws in Croatia. Very good. It would have been good if it hadn't been for the VAT. And secondly, the term common taxes, Mr. Minister, in the Law on the financing of local self-government, that concept is introduced. ... Common taxes. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Taxes. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Read the law, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-17-0.u25546	Correction of an incorrect quote, dear colleague Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-17-0.u25547	So I'd just like to correct the minister, he said the tax laws were scheduled for discussion before the budget. No, they're not. They were projected after the budget, but with the agenda gymnastics, there was a game of circumstances that came before the budget itself, which none of us expected today.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-17-0.u25548	We're continuing the debate. On behalf of the HDZ Club, dear colleague Meden.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-17-0.u25549	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Minister, the government's representatives, Madam and gentlemen of the MPs. The 11th session of the Parliament is actually already a debate on the implementation of the 2004 budget and on the 2005 budget as well as on tax and legislation. These are, in fact, the crown documents of every country's macroeconomic policy, and so are our fundamental parameters of the success or failure of the real sector of each country's economy. The total country's income, therefore the GMP is actually the sum of household consumption or personal consumption of investments, differences in imports and exports, as well as at the end of state consumption. State consumption represents a significant part of the country's total product, and on the other hand, state taxes represent the revenue side of the state budget. State spending and state revenues are the main parameters of the fiscal policy that we are talking about here today, whether it's a budgetary surplus, or a restrictive fiscal policy, or that it's a budget deficit that we are talking about, that is, about Expensive and fiscal policy. It is clear from this introduction that tax policy is a very important factor for fiscal policy-making and at all times affects the country's overall product. At first, I would actually like to say what the trends in income in income tax were in this debate. Not so long ago in 2000, this tax collected about 4 billion and 100 million kunas of budget revenue. For the purpose of tax discharge at the end of 2000, a new law was passed with an increased... deduction and then three rates of tax were introduced. Through this legal application in 2001, so a year later, 16.9% less income was collected. The decline in income trend continued in 2002, and the decline was caused by wage reform in the state administration. The new law in early 2003 introduced the fourth rate of 45% and the increase in personal deduction to 1.500,00 kuna continued to decline, so that the revenue from this tax actually fell in 2003 to 4.3% of budget revenues. This year, approximately the same execution as is expected in budget dispositions. In short. Compared to the applicable rules governing the payment of income tax, the new Income Tax Act, which is ahead of us should actually ensure a simpler, more transparent, more complete, more understandable way of regulating the income tax system. Tax reform, which also forms an integral part of the adoption of a new Income Tax Act, is based on the principles of equality, justice, neutrality and efficiency in taxing the income of natural persons. The proposed law also brings important changes to this proposal, which we have already heard from the promoter himself, but I would like to mention some new categories here. Among them we came across reading this law on the notion of residents and non-residents where in some way the term "foreign" and "inlander", means, tax payer, and... the place of residence and the usual "place of residence" the term "principals of life interests" has been introduced. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] A new category of "income source" has also been introduced, and depending on the source, this income is income from non-performing labour, income from independent activity, income from assets, property rights, income from capital, income from insurance and other income. In short, this bill increased the untaxable share of income from a thousand and 500 to a thousand and 600 kuna, while tax reliefs were accumulated to a total of 12 thousand per year, 12 thousand kuna per year. With an increase in the non-taxable share of income by 100 kuna per thousand and 600 kuna almost certainly there will be a change in some tax classes, and the rates of income tax, therefore, have not changed, remained on... 15, 25, 35 and 45%. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] At the rate of 15%, so... The income of 3 thousand and 200 kuna, with a 25 % income of 8 thousand kuna, will be 35 % income from 8 thousand to 22 thousand kuna, while more than 22 thousand 400 kuna will therefore be taxed at a rate of 45%. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Changes also predict an increase as we have read, a factor in personal deduction for dependent family members. Thus, the personal deduction to the first child will increase from 0.45 to 0.5. For the second child from.59 to 0.7, etc. For the fourth child from 1.17 to 1.4, and for the fifth child from 1.59 to 1.9%. It will also increase the deduction for disabled persons from 0.25 to 0.30 and for 100% people with disabilities to 1. So, for example, you can see briefly in the tables of the law, for example. for the second child, it increases the non-taxable annual income from 10 thousand and 600 to 13 thousand and 400 kuna. A second income category for taxation of athletes, singers, artists and similar activities has been introduced. It will recognise a 30% flat-rate cost, with an average of 70% of the income being paid 25% of the tax. It will finally, I would say, be regulated this gray area which is now, according to the Ministry of Finance's indicators, somehow in the gray zone, or out of control. Finally, I would like to say that around 30 representatives of institutions dealing with tax issues have been involved in working groups and can certainly contribute to the change and improvement of the tax system. There are primarily the Institute of Public Finance, Economic Institute, Accounting and Finance, further Faculty of Economics, Faculty of Law, Croatian Employers' Association, trade unions and other respected tax experts. Therefore, this law will certainly allow a fairer, simpler and more efficient tax system. It is well known that order should be introduced and the effectiveness of the tax system increased and adapted to the tax system of the European Union. And finally, I would like to stress that today we are discussing the Income Tax Act which has a 4% share in the Republic of Croatia's Budget. It is precisely that 4% of the income tax in the total income of the Republic of Croatia that gives the size of the fiscal force as part of the leverage of this macroeconomic policy that should therefore be considered in such a serious way. This macroeconomic policy, in accordance with this Act, has been very often mentioned by social or investment importance. I would like to say that, above all, here the objective and main challenge is to achieve a competitive structure of the economy in the process of bringing Croatia closer to the European Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-17-0.u25550	Thank you, dear colleague. It is on behalf of the HSP Club, a respected colleague, Tonci Tadic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-17-0.u25551	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Your Honor, Mr. Secretary. The HSP Club also joins the protest of opposition clubs because of what we discuss about this Income Tax Act before the state budget itself. We believe that if the government's objective was a comprehensive tax reform, this should have been discussed far earlier and with far better checks, i.e. simulations of the effects of these tax changes on our taxpayers. What I particularly want to mention about this tax is this. Income tax is a marginal source for charging the state budget. If you compare it with the amount the state budget receives from excise duties, especially VAT, and even compared to the profit tax, it is indeed marginal. So we can use this tax as an instrument for reducing labour prices. And that should be the government's goal in these tax reforms. Income tax is the most important form of promotion of employment. Because he actually defines the most labour price, if we put aside experiments and bad experiments with the reduction of social and health benefits, in which, in particular, the former government and former finance minister were tried, reducing health insurance allocations despite the direct violation of the 102 Convention. International Labour Organizations. I warned of this detail in the last session on behalf of the HSP Club, but unfortunately none of the ruling structures at that time wanted to hear it. The thing is, therefore, that the World Bank advises all transition countries to reduce the labour price by intervening in income tax. So, courageously reducing income tax, not reducing income tax for cosmetic sums, for cosmetic percentages, but really encouraging employment. I repeat, a little less than 3 billion kuna is collected from income tax in the budget. That's why it's really unusual for us to have a government that's had the courage to go into a VAT reduction from 22% to 20%, so to expand the budget hole from about 3 billion kuna now has no courage to cut the VAT significantly, more significant income tax cuts, knowing that the whole income tax actually brings, when it was abolished, the same budget gap from slightly less than 3 billion kuna. So, what was mentioned here in the debate on dividend tax and in the debate on income tax, and this will certainly be especially true in the discussion of the profit tax that follows after this, is the question of how the reduction of these taxes actually contributes to investments in Croatia. And while we're on investment, I'll be free to present some of my knowledge of it, or of the information that I've received from at least the representatives of certain Japanese investors. So they do not suffer so much income tax in Croatia. They do not suffer so much profit tax in Croatia. What is the key problem for investors from the Far East here is primarily the rule of law, the basic security of charge. Secondly, the fact that for each investment they must pass the real Calvary in Croatia by breaking down the doors of various offices. And thirdly, what drives them the most crazy, and not only of them, investors from the Far East, but also those from our immediate countries and domestic investors are often tax changes and experiments. No one can really take a table calculator with complete certainty and figure out what his income will look like after five years because no one knows except for the all-out whether or not the Minister of Finance or someone else will come to mind that during that period, there is still a little bit of a correction of a tax, something raises it, something reduces it. So that's what drives our investors the most potential and not the amount of a single tax, they're driven by continuous experiments and income tax changes and, of course, by the complicated system of his account. This is, however, a whole new law, it is good that, instead of patching up the existing law with accessories, the minister went to write a consistent law that at least this man can be better managed, but since the goal of these reliefs and these changes allegedly help our employees here remain one important piece of information and that is what we are actually helping them with, what is the concept of increasing the salary of a particular worker. It turns out by this, forgive me if I miscalculated, that if the salaries are less than 3 and a half thousand kuna that given these changes in the tax base that for wages of less than three and a half thousand kuna is a profit of about 20 kuna or if the salaries are less than 4800 kuna that the profit is about 100 kuna. So we pay the highest number of workers to increase the order of 100 kuna. What we actually help our workers with and how much we actually encourage employment and reduce the cost of work. That is the problem and the thing is that these people with salaries of less than 4800 kuna actually make up the main employees in the Croatian state. They make up most of the taxpayers, not only by the number of taxpayers but also by the amount of tax paid. So when we set things up in this way, then one actually needs to ask ourselves whether we really need this kind of mild tax tax reform on income, because the meaning of income tax is the establishment of a single social state, which is the equalisation of tax burdens across all pay groups, so that each group bears the same tax burden, and therefore we think that these tax bases have to be even more corrected, we hold that the shift from 1500 to 1600 kuna is too small, that it has to be increased by at least another 200 kuna, and secondly that here we lack a concrete simulation of how much the country is really helping individual paying groups of Croatian workers. And to go back to dividends, how many shares in Croatia have been extended in the first place, no matter how many people have shares in us, and in which group these people are in. I'll bet that one large part of them belongs precisely to that group that pays its income tax at 45%, so they are among the most wealthy people here because unfortunately because of the way privatisation took place, all the stupidity that happened in privatisation because there is a lack of voucher privatisation here, or that they are late with the division of shares of Croatian defenders and employees of major state systems is indeed very few citizens of ordinary citizens who are shareholders and we, with this tax relief on dividends, are actually helping only the most profitable layer of Croatian citizens and, at the same time, we make a generous contribution of between 50 and 100 kuna per month. It is, unfortunately, the only success of this law in our court. I would like Mr. Ministers to address this problem in the second reading of this Law, I would also ask you, and your colleagues at the Ministry, to submit to the Croatian Assembly the tables with simulations in kuna calculated changes in the salaries of Croatian workers for this new system of taxation of income taxes. Moreover, for all these reasons, the HSP Club cannot accept this tax, income, this Income Tax Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-17-0.u25552	Thank you, dear colleague Tadic. Mr. Finance Minister, Mr. Shucker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-17-0.u25553	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So, naturally, the Ministry of Finance has been working on simulations of how much the average increase of individual groups will be, say, for groups of citizens who have salaries between 2000 and 151 and 2350 kuna is 65 thousand, their annual increase will be 220 kuna, but most of them are those who receive that salary outside tax scissors. However, those who are most interesting are those of 4500 who are on the border of the average salary of up to 7,000 of them are 231 thousand and their annual increase is 1176 kuna, or will receive a total budget of 270 million kuna less or this category below 2350 to 4500 there is reported, I speak on purpose and speak to 567 thousand employees, workers, their annual salary increase is 544 kuna, but when we put it on budget revenues that is 308 million kuna of revenue in the budget. Therefore, it cannot be said that 1700 kunas of annual salary increases are very small but if they are calculated in those who have two personal deductions regarding children where they are increasing is untaxable then that amount is significantly higher. So, the Ministry of Finance has made simulations and we can give you, it is not at all controversial but what we have given to the Rules of Procedure and how we should put the law in the proposal there, we have stated how much the total reduction in the resources relating to the state budget is.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-17-0.u25554	Thank you very much, Mr. Minister. It's my dear colleague, Zvonimir Mršić, here's my colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-17-0.u25555	Honorable Vice President, Honorable Minister, Assistant Minister. I would just like to say a few words about the proposal of this Law and its implications on local budgets although the minister said that this law would have a neutral impact on local budgets, in the first part of its opening argument, in the second part he said that there would still be some losses and that it would be fair of the state budget to compensate for these losses. It is very good that the minister has spoken but it would be much better if the bill of law or the proposal for a law on the financing of units of local self-government had increased the decentralised income for units of local self-government. If the correct information, which the minister said earlier, is that because of the increase in the tax base, the unwarranted part of the salary for which I am certainly in favour of affecting that 306 million kuna will be less in the state budget, this means that it will be if somewhere 67% of the share of local self-government units in that common tax, because however, the Law on Local Self-Government defines income tax as a common tax. So, the stake is 67% then that means that in the following year from this base, so as a result of this law, the local self-government unit will generate revenue of less than 220 million kuna, according to estimates just said by the minister behind this pay phone. Therefore, it would be really good if, in the implementation of, in the Law on Budget Implementation or in the Law on the Financing of Local Self-Government Units, a reduction in this revenue of the units of local self-government would result in no way being affected by amortised by local self-government, so that this loss is compensated from the state budget. I would like to warn here of something else that since 1.1. local self-government units have to fully finance public fire stations without being expected to increase the share of income tax, i.e. decentralised funds for public fire departments. And likewise, no matter what we have talked about, the Protection and Rescue Act will have no impact on the budgets, that it will certainly come next year as a result of its need to be singled out for civil protection and fire protection in a larger amount. Therefore, when this law is adopted in the second reading, and it is obvious that it will still be during this session, or in transitional and final provisions, or in some other law, to compensate local self-government units for this loss. Here it should be borne in mind that in 2005 there will be a cumulative negative impact on the budgets of units of local self-government because they are still worth tax reliefs for 2004 such coffees are prescribed. So this year, for individual budgets of local self-government units, it was a major blow, a return on income tax with the basis of annual applications, and now there will also be a tax loss, i.e. a loss in the budget and a reduction of income from the operation of this tax law. Therefore, not only because there is an increase in the untaxable part but also because there is a withdrawal of the 15 % dividend tax that was the income of the local self-government units, therefore, of the budget of the local self-government units. Both of these facilitating elements for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia also have a negative impact on them. They will have on one side slightly higher incomes, because they will get a slightly higher salary, or they will get a higher salary than they will get. On the other hand, however, the ability of local self-government units to meet their needs and improve the quality of life in municipalities, cities and counties will be reduced because they will not be able to realise projects that would be realised with the basis of such income. Here is the question of what kind of correlation are these bill proposals with guidelines that the Ministry of Finance gave to local self-government units for budgeting, as it was given in the guidelines that an increase in income tax revenue of 8.5% would be expected. This is also in the light of the budget of the Republic of Croatia's day such an assessment that income tax will therefore grow and on the other hand we also have ministers, and we are all aware that there will still be a reduction in income from income tax. It would be good, therefore, if such tax laws affecting the budgets were passed before guidelines were issued and certainly before the budgets of the Republic of Croatia or the budgets of the local self-government unit were defined, and the vast majority of local self-government units had already drawn up proposals or drafts of their budgets. And if it proposes such budgets, and they are not realized because of the action of this law, the question is who will be responsible for reducing these revenues. So I appeal to the government and to the minister to certainly find a way to eliminate this negative effect. Of course, it is possible that the minister will say that the funds from the Harmonisation Fund will be increased for next year, but it is quite certain that this year the Fund for Alignment as I have spoken in the debate on the budget will not be enough for decentralised functions, because the Fund for Alignment in the first 8, 10 months is realised with 93%, which means that the money remains only for decentralised functions in the 11th month. At 12 months, there will be no funds for decentralised functions. And what is foreseen to increase in next year's budget for the 130 million-dollar Alignment Fund, that is exactly how much this year's funds are needed for decentralised functions. And I repeat, the following year, since 1.1, public fire departments are also falling completely into budgets for which no revenue is foreseen. However, there will be very negative impacts on the budgets, and in no way have we asked them whether they agree with it, in any way cities, municipalities and counties could not influence the adoption of this and, or these laws and will have a negative impact. And let me just have one more comment on the dividend tax. So, the dividend tax here in this law applies to natural persons, because according to this law, dividend tax is paid by natural persons, while legal persons pay dividend taxes, or have so far paid, so far they have paid through profits in the parent company. The tax on dividends is now predicted not to be paid in the future, so natural persons do not pay dividend taxes. And that would have been good if it had been achieved in the moment or if it had been realized at the moment when we had a large number of small shareholders in the Republic of Croatia. Unfortunately, because of the privatisation system and because of what happened afterwards, the number of small shareholders in the Republic of Croatia has fallen significantly. We may have a large number now, but with a very small number of shares. Thus, this law still favours those who have managed in a variety of ways to obtain large packages of shares and hold them in private ownership, and even to the owners of companies who now may even at the expense of labour costs go after them to extract profits in such a way that they will, therefore, pay 20% of the profit tax which is small, small tax compared to what they would pay through income tax and then, of course, will not have to pay dividend tax. However, this elimination of dividend tax benefits richer layers of Croatian citizens. But I also finally appeal to the ministry to definitely address the negative effects of this law on local self-government units. We always say that when such laws are proposed and it would really be good not to propose laws in the future that have a negative impact on the budgets of local self-government units, and if we haven't asked them before and if they couldn't influence it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-17-0.u25556	Thank you. Replica, Your Honor, Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-17-0.u25557	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ma, my colleague Mršić confirmed my definition of common taxes that this law belongs to the category of common taxes under the Law on Local Self-Government, but it seems to me that he was wrong in calculating that local self-government due to changes in these laws, and the remainder of the old Law on the financing of local and regional self-government could be left without, somewhere around 220 million. I think it's a little bit more especially because in the proposal for a budget for next year, the increase in the items of decentralised balancing functions is an increase of only 12% by 120 million kuna which apparently compensates for the deficits in the last three months of this year. With the new obligations that we have already imposed in the existing laws on municipalities, cities and counties, surely in our own let's say that 220 million will not be richer to cover the incomes that have been known so far. And since the municipalities will continue the cities, the counties will finance their local projects, I'm afraid there will be something that no one wants. I hope that it is no one's interest, obligations exist, contracts exist, agreements exist, projects exist and local and regional self-government will have to introduce new or increase existing local taxes to finance their needs, and then it will turn out that the central state government frees and helps citizens, but that local and regional self-government by introducing new and increasing existing taxes actually takes what the central state government has given them as a benefit. It is therefore important that when we talk about tax reform, and without the Law on the financing of local self-government, it is really not possible to say about the quality of this bill, especially because the issue of local self-government and the reflection of the quality and assessment of citizens on the functioning of government depends not only on how people view power in Mark's square, but in their municipalities, cities and counties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-17-0.u25558	Thank you. Replicate response, respected representative Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-17-0.u25559	So I didn't calculate that 220 million, I was just using the data the minister said, I'm convinced that there will really be a reduction in the tax revenues of local self-government units much bigger, as I have claimed it would be a significant negative impact on the incomes and return of units of local self-government. And since the units of local self-government could not affect the tax return, then the state should, as it does in areas of special state concern for the total amount of tax, compensated local self-government units for the tax refund, so it should be incorporated into the IRS into the IRS that the return on income tax on the basis of the annual application is exclusively a state budget. Because units of local self-government cannot influence this, but the Government and the Parliament impose what will happen and how it will take place. Even local self-government units don't even charge taxes, nor can they influence them in any way. What is negative about this is in the position of the local self-government unit that I am convinced that the government and parliament will find a way to compensate for the loss in the state budget. So, if there's no money, we'll meet again before we increase the excise duty on cars, on luxury, on coffee, on alcohol, or I don't know what. Local self-government units can't do that. They can increase, introduce or increase the cut that the vast majority of them have. The communal fee cannot be increased because the coefficient must be determined by 30 November of the current year. Therefore, it will indeed fall in position, it is not correct for local self-government units.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-17-0.u25560	Thank you. Minister of Finance Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-17-0.u25561	Thank you very much, Mr. President, it was very interesting to hear this between counsel Lesar and Mrsic. But this legal procedure has been sent to two laws. Profit tax law, income tax law. And I said that eventually the impact when all of the laws are summed up will be on the state budget and on the budget of the local self-government units neutrally. That's 100%. However, when you talk about the return of income tax, when you look at the technique which is the return of income tax, what will be returned next year it is incometed this year in units of local self-government. So the local self-government units were coming back. But we have something very interesting. You know what's not, when you talk about these things then you have to deal with certain financial indicators. So, for example, in 2003, the state came in with income tax base of 2 billion 200, and municipalities and cities 3 billion and 100. However, in 2004, for the time being, almost complete return on income taxes has already been made, the state has been incometing 2 billion 100, but very interesting that cities and municipalities have been incometing 3 billion and 700. So 600 million more than what, than for the whole last year, and the state was revenueing 80, almost 120 million less than for the whole last year. And what I'd like to say to all those who care so much about what happens with the dividend tax. You have one provision in the article on profit tax I will talk more about, where the applicable Law on transactions between related companies is spoken of. And that's what I'll talk about when more income tax comes in. It is very interesting that those concerned about how money from the Republic of Croatia will be pointed out, that provision of the law has not fallen and is not stuck to the eyes, but be assured that dividends are minor in terms of what has been carried out through these transactions, but new amendments to the Tax on Profits Act will change that. And then when you expand the tax base, and when I tell you about the effects of a one-time write-off, then you'll see that local self-government units with income tax base and what's now predicted by income tax will have more revenue in the budget than they have now.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-17-0.u25562	Thank you. Dear representative Marija Lugaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-17-0.u25563	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister with associates, colleagues and colleagues. The debate on such an important topic, I think it deserves a little more attention and parliamentary representatives and perhaps a little more time for more studio observation of the whole story, thus more announcements of tax reforms that have obviously been dropped. At this point, I would only like to talk about one thing about tax relief, or an increase in the non-taxable part of income. Personally, I think tax relief should be given, if they don't have at least two basic purposes. The first purpose should be social, and the second purpose should be to promote desirable investment. In this part of the social story, it is that the reduction of tax burdens in some life or existentially important situations have been introduced in the last term tax reliefs for the actual costs of health services, the purchase of orthopaedic aids, on the other hand, to address housing needs whether it is building or buying an apartment or a house for permanent residence or for paying, i.e. paying part of the rent, i.e. sub-occupation. I think after all this debate that has so far been quite easy, i.e. to notice quite difficult not to deny the fact that this bill makes significant restrictions in this part of the relief, i.e. an increase in the untaxable part of the income involved in this social component. And not only in the part that has already been discussed so far, so I wouldn't want to say that all these reliefs can now be used only cumulatively, meaning all together up to 12,000 kuna a year, not as so far as it's been the case of 12,000 kuna for every tax relief. However, if we look at the proposal of this Act, I would also ask the Minister and other co-workers of the Ministry of Finance and the Government to consider the provision of paragraphs 16 and 17 in Article 36, where the section relating to the purchase of residential space is defined. In addition to removing that it must be shared with health care and all other facilities, newspapers are introduced that this applies only to the purchase of the first living space, not as it has been worth every living space so far. It is clear to me that the minister has a great deal of concern to think about the budget, that he must think accountingly. However, I think it is important for us in the Croatian Parliament to think about life as well. When the law was passed and housing tax reliefs were introduced, we limited the squareness to which all of this applied together and applied to the special rules adopted by the Tax Administration and there is no impossible situation for a young family, the young couple decided to buy a 50 square-square apartment, to raise credit and to use relief. In the meantime, according to his own desire and everything he increased his family. In a family age of several children, and of course, that 50 - square - square apartment no longer meets their requirements, does not meet the needs of their extended family. I think it's quite bad that at a time when they're going to sell this little one-room apartment to buy bigger ones, they won't be able to take advantage of these tax reliefs, especially since now it's very trendy and from this government very popular talk about population policy and on the other hand we don't allow the real activities that life means in this sense. So I'm asking you as a motionary to consider eliminating the fact that it applies only to solving the issue of the first living space rather than to solving the only living space and I believe that should have been the intensity. So please think about it. In the second part of what I said I thought was an important function of tax relief that is to promote desirable investment. We've never thought about it before in this sense of this law. We only have the ease of this social category, but I think a country that has a serious ambition to move and develop has to think about it in this sense in a developmental way. I would say three or four proposals here, and I would ask the same promoter to think about it during the second reading or final proposal of the law. In fact, I think it would be better if a team were to give up some different tax system and remain in existence to include the purchase of personal computers, computer components and programs in the amount of actual costs as part of the non-taxable part of income. We talked about this because the SDP Club had passed such a law, and when we discussed it at the end of March and April this year it was also said in the government's opinion that the government would deliver its programme very quickly because the government is always smarter and better than the representatives. However, something like this has not been obtained from the government to the day today, so I would ask you to reconsider this in view of the tax and information literacy and the equipment of the information infrastructure in Croatia and the purchase of real costs as an increase in the non-taxable income work. Secondly, also the actual costs incurred by paying foreign language courses and schools and informational descriptors, I think they deserve the same treatment in the same sense. The entry into the European Union itself requires a new trend of trilingualism, meaning Croatian and two languages, which today's school system does not allow children because it is essentially bilingualism and one foreign language. I think it would be good for those citizens who can do this to stimulate the state to invest money in it without investing money in other things, in some other cost of life. Thirdly, what we have not talked about here in the Croatian Parliament and I must admit that I have been encouraged by the announcement of Minister Primorac that over two years, a new regime will be introduced that all students of pre-graduate, graduate and post-graduate studies will pay for studies except those who are disabled to consider that all those categories of our fellow citizens and fellow citizens primarily who pay for the study regardless of what the actual costs and paid studies are also due to them as an increase in the untaxable work of income. The price of one average year of study for those who pay in Croatia is between 7 and 10 thousand kuna. After graduation studies are significantly higher and I think that in a country where there are only 7% of highly educated people and who have an ambition to rapidly develop such a thing is completely unacceptable. Therefore, in view of all this, I think that what is proposed here is not enough, that it is not good and I sincerely hope that the ministry and the government will also consider these proposals and will include them in the final draft of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-17-0.u25564	Thank you. Minister of Finance Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-17-0.u25565	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament! I thank you all for the debate, for your suggestions. The Ministry of Finance will consider this by the next reading, but it is likely that after the Tax on Profits will solve some confusion. But I would like to say something about personal deductions because we made a name out of it. And when we look at realistically, let's just say for life insurance payments with a savings feature there was an average personal deduction of 3 thousand kuna. That's what's been reported this year. Or, say, so many mentioned housing needs, etc. We're a little fond of glorifying some things, but housing is a possibility first of all who can raise it. And the question is how many people can afford such a housing loan in the first place to book it as a expense. However, to stay away from the debate on the grounds of living needs, 54 000 citizens were using it. A total of 422 million kunas or an average relief with a basis of residential loans for the arrangement of the loan of 8 thousand kunas. So when you look at the number of housing-based reliefs it's only the fourth relief that has been used and not. It's the same story as around these famous 100-square POS apartments that no one can buy. So, let's see which of the young people at this point can borrow with the basis of their receipts, and his interest will be 12,000 kuna a year. Let's take a look at this base. Let's not look at the wages we get here. Let's see what the average salary is in Croatia and see what credit this is on which the annual interest rates are 12,000 kuna. So this provision only goes towards rationalization. The average living needs of 8 thousand kunas have been a relief, and I guarantee you that for those who are destined for these reliefs, these 12,000 cumulative reliefs are purely satisfying their needs, so be assured. We've done a series of analysis, a series of evaluations. We've been looking at tax returns that people use these reliefs. Unfortunately, for these housing needs is at least those spoken of so much and these are young. Unfortunately, he's the smallest. Therefore, speaking of how we should leave reliefs from this, they amount to 50 or 60 thousand kuna a year is something that is not good and something that indicates that these provisions served primarily those who have far higher wages in order to think about giving them these reliefs. And as far as these four reliefs are concerned, I'd be happy to have it proposed at the last session of the Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-17-0.u25566	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. Keep going. Proposal for a income tax law. First reading, bill number 191. The debate is closed. I am voting on the following conclusion: The proposed income tax law is adopted. All objections, proposals and opinions will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare the final draft law. Please, let's get on with it. To vote. The result? I find that the conclusion was accepted by 83 votes in favour, four abstentions and 21 against.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-17-0.u25569	Thank you very much. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament! So, before you there is a proposal for a tax on profit. I'm only going to talk here about three things that I think are important to point out and mention. So, first of all, it's proposed to keep the profit tax rate 20%, but what we're proposing is to eliminate the possibility of a one-time write-off or a one-time depreciation. Now I'll tell you why. Because with the basis of a one-time write-off or depreciation in 2002, the base of profit tax was reduced by 3.1 billion kuna and in 2003, the base of profit tax was reduced by 4.7 billion kuna. Now definitely the provision exclusively served to iron the tax balance at the end of the year. Because think of it as 4.7 billion kuna with everything that's been shown, which is not once written off into the economy how many new jobs this would bring. So when you account for 20% of your profit tax on those 4 billion 700 million kuna, it's 940 million. Far above the 800 million in income tax. However, here I would like to mention two categories that will be defined and solved by this Law. It is one thing, therefore, that only the principle of transactions between related companies exist in the applicable law without the provision of transfer pricing through which the non-taxable profit is transferred abroad. It is therefore necessary to lay down provisions on transfer prices in order to assist in the handling of such cases. What are we trying to say here? The dividend was nothing compared to how undefined it was by this provision between companies in Croatia, companies abroad were leaving the money. Nowhere has it been defined how many houses for certain advice on how a policy should be drawn up in its shop can be paid by a parent company outside. And that's a provision far more dangerous than a provision to abolish the pay of profit taxes. And I'm not saying that it wasn't defined how it would be financially recorded, regulated by the merger, and attached to the company. So with these two provisions we will significantly extend the base of those who need to pay the profit tax, we will reduce the outflow of non-taxable money from the Republic of Croatia and the effect, only these three legislative changes will be far greater, positive than the negative effect of the budget and state and local self-government units based on income tax. I said, just a one-time write-off, reducing the base of profit tax in 20003. 4.7 billion kuna. This is precisely known, 11th, 12th month, buying equipment and what the princip needs for business purposes and can be used in something else to make... tax balance. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Because the one who runs the correct accounting policy, the accounting policy that runs the correct financial policy, will focus the depreciation cost in the year when he has the highest income from the newly purchased fixed assets or the means of working. He won't focus on the moment he has the lowest income, but the cost will time-limit you. So, these 4.ortisations focus in the year when they have the highest income of the newly purchased fixed assets or means of work. He won't focus on the moment he has the lowest income, but the cost will time-limit you. Therefore, these 4.7 billion kunas should be brought into the budget of at least 900 million kuna and then the answer to the esteemed colleague Mršić Lesar why no amendment to the Law on the financing of units of local self-government is foreseen, because these two laws go into the package and when you look only at how much the base of the tax on profits will be extended by regulating these transfers for various services abroad and on the regulation of cash flows when joining the corporates will then, with the basis of the tax on profits, be higher in local self-government units and in the state budget than it will be loss with the basis of, tax cuts on dividends and an increase in the non-taxable part of income tax. But what is most important with these other profit tax provisions is becoming more transparent, and what is most important is that certain business transactions that have occurred in Croatia in the last few years, which have not happened 5, 6 years ago but have not been implemented by any provision of the law and most importantly, those who have thought about it in the Ministry of Finance have not seen it as a major problem and have not considered these changes at all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-17-0.u25570	Thank you very much. The committee's reporters? Legislative, financial, state budget, local and regional self-government. I'm opening a debate. Croatian Democratic Community Representatives' Club, respected representative Nevenka Majdenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-17-0.u25571	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, honourable ministers, gentlemen of the government, colleagues and fellow MPs. In the pursuit of a transparent, comparable and modern tax system, a request for a new way of taxing profits is put in place. This is due to the need to adapt the tax system to the domestic economic conditions as well as to the conditions of globalisation of national economies and to align the extent required by this period with the tax legislation of the countries of the European Union. The main reason for the adoption of the new Tax on Profit is to remove a series of shortages of the existing way of taxing profits which are essentially made up: there are dualities about determining the basic tax institute, which is the tax base. The duality is that the Law itself, which sets out in detail the elements of the tax base, income and expenditure in the law itself, and stipulates that profit is determined according to accounting rules, which also means the application of international accounting standards which also regulate income and expenditure. In addition, it is stated in the transitional provisions that the regulation of income and expenditure in the Law will not apply when Croatian accounting standards are adopted on which no one has ever worked or been given the task of creating Croatian accounting standards. So we have a tax return with a number of data that lacks basic data on profit levels. In addition, it is common for all legally regulated countries that are a model that the tax base is an accounting profit that is adjusted by a special tax regulation for tax purposes. Essential elements, tax base, depreciation, value adjustments of long-term and short-term assets, booking is now not prescribed in the law but in the rules. Regulations are passed by the minister, which means that the minister determines the tax base instead of the Croatian Parliament and thus the tax level. Since these are essential elements affecting the tax base and the tax obligation as well as the rate itself, they need to be incorporated into the Law. There are insufficient provisions on non-business expenditures and private exemptions for which the tax base is increased. The practice shows that through companies, significant costs are displayed which are private rather than business nature and are not excluded from the extreme luxury that is expressed as business expenditure. It is therefore necessary to regulate the taxation of such costs in the law. In the current law, only the principle of transactions between related companies exist without the provision of transfer pricing that transfers the non-taxable profits abroad. It is therefore necessary to lay down provisions on transfer prices in order to be able to act in such cases. For taxpayers engaged exclusively in research development, tax exemption was introduced last year in a way that they were not taxpayers and that means they did not file a tax application. As a result, there is no information on the amount of tax exemption used which is relevant in the assessment of the effect of the exemption itself. That is why the exemption was left in this Act but the obligation to submit a tax application was prescribed to obtain information on the amount of the exemption used. The proposed law is harmonised to the extent required by this period with the guidelines of the European Union. In particular, the guidelines relating to related companies, transfer pricing guidelines and the guidelines on mergers and divisions. And that matter is the acceptance of every double taxation contract. The law introduces transparency in the business of economically significant natural persons, which is the practice of a larger number of European countries. We had this in the regulations until 2001 and it was unnecessarily deleted. It does not make sense that in the overall economic activity, the formal status of entrepreneurs of similar economic forces is not uniform. It is now prescribed that natural persons having a significant economic business base establish on the basis of simple records that are suitable for small crafts dealing with repairs, smaller services or smaller production. Simple accounting based on the principle of the cash register, which means the paid cost, the paid receipt does not ensure the determination of real business results, and thus tax bases. Their production calculations are based on all costs included, and not only the paid ones, which means that they have, for their own purposes, differently calculated rather than for tax purposes. In addition, companies that can be established with 20 thousand kuna capital are automatically obliged to establish a tax base based on double accounting. Just because they're legal. And natural persons with million capital run simple books and do not establish a real tax base, but also establish it as a craft and for small repairs. In addition to the regulation of this kind, many European countries have certain activities, regardless of their values, such as transport, catering, some forms of trade and the like, have to keep books according to the principles of the event of double accounting. And now something about the impact of depreciation that significantly affects profit achievement. The bill abolished the possibility of a one-time write-off because the expected target was not reached. When a one-time write-off argument was introduced, it was to encourage reinvestment, and that didn't happen. A one-time write-off was used to write off purchased real estate, which is no achievement because real estate traffic should not be particularly stimulated. In addition to the reported one-off write-off, those taxpayers whose financial statements are not subject to review could be used. So small companies because the reports have to be fair value. If the assets were singled out, their value in the report would not be realistic and auditors would be built on the reality of such a report. In exchange for one-time write-offs now increased depreciation rates so that computer equipment can be written off in one year and other equipment in two years. Cars in two and a half, real estate in 10 years and all other assets in no more than 5 years. The law also increases the limit value between long-term and short-term assets, small inventory from 1000 to 2000 kuna. It is limited to the recognition of the costs of amortisation of the means of transport to 400 thousand kuna. For business purposes, the luxury is excessive, and if an entrepreneur wants a luxury, the state does not need to co-finance it. The law increased tax reliefs for entrepreneurs in the area of the city of Vukovar and in the area of special public care of the first group. Tax bonds under the law in the city of Vukovar and the first, and first groups do not pay profit tax for 10 years since the application of the law. If it really wants to stimulate the development of the economy in these areas, it needs to be done as much as possible. A new investment boost is also being introduced so that the minimum amount for the right to encourage investment is reduced from 10 million kuna to 4 million kuna. Introduces relief for shipowners so that they do not pay taxes on profits made in international navigation. The tax payer starting to carry out the activity shall not pay advances until the first tax application. The law also introduces a tax after deduction on business services with the aim of reducing the transfer of profits. These services are not subject to tax if there is a double tax avoidance contract, which means that they will only be paid in the payment of such charges by countries with which they are not subject to double taxation contracts. It has been observed that through various business consulting services, profits are transferred to countries in an environment that is not subject to double taxation avoidance contracts. These reasons are of great importance, according to which it is necessary to tax profits, so the Croatian Democratic Community's Representatives Club supports the adoption of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-17-0.u25572	Thank you very much. HSP club, respected representative Tonci Tadic. He's gone. He loses his club right to the word. We're going to an individual debate. Honourable representative Plasimir Mršić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-17-0.u25573	Thank you very much. Here's what I'm gonna use for one little controversy with the minister. It shows here that the state is its own mother, and local self-government is a bit of a stepmom. Because when we talked about the Income Tax Act where the share of local self-government in the common tax is 70%, and the countries 30% went to a reduction in income. But here, where the profit tax law is talked about where the share in the country's common tax is 70%, and the local self-government unit is 30% here we're talking about increasing this serious tax revenue. But the minister said that here it is, so in 2004, that this law was in force to raise 900 thousand, 900 million kuna more revenue if I understood correctly, did it? Because 4 billion and 700 million were reduced tax base. If that's the case, then why didn't you in the 2005 budget predict an increase of 30% of the profit tax but only 10%? So you predicted that the tax profit of 3 billion 171 million will rise to only 3 billion 480 million. So you should plan then so that income from profit tax will be over 4 billion in the state budget, but then you should also guide units of local self-government to plan a 30% profit tax increase if we look at it this way. Otherwise, I agree with the need to correct depreciation rates and prevent the abuse of ironing of the balance sheet and also the extraction of income from Croatia by not moving tax on dividends which, as you here wanted to declare that we are the custodians of this because the dividend tax is paid by natural persons, and not by legal persons whether, but by now, the tax on profits has been withdrawn from the state by costs, because the related companies have precisely been creating costs in companies that had headquarters or branches here in Croatia, they have drawn profits abroad and have not paid profits here in Croatia. But I would like to see these optimistic forecasts of Minister Shucker come true if he actually received a profit tax in proportion to all local self-government units in 2005 grew 30%. Unfortunately, this is not going to happen, and because the company's headquarters are not very well deployed in the Republic of Croatia, and especially not the seats of state-owned companies that made huge profits last year, so they paid, so, let's say THT is one of those companies whether, and INA is the other of these companies whether, and all of them have a seat here in Zagreb, so that is one small problem. But what perhaps for a second reading should be seen as a suggestion I suggest that we also consider, if I may, and consider something called a transferred tax loss. I believe that this category of tax loss was therefore also used as an instrument for ironing the balance sheet among companies that thus reduced the tax base and did not pay the profit tax. And since I come from a city where there are still some seats of some large companies that should become significantly profitable in the future. I welcome this law that will in such a significant way increase the tax revenues of local self-government units in the area of Koprivnica Crossing County. When we can't already have transfers from the state budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-17-0.u25574	Thank you. And respected representative Ivana Sučec Trakostanec.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-17-0.u25575	Thank you, Mr. President, I will sort of report to support both of these laws in the same way. Here I have not reported for the past they are inevitably tied up as one new systematic new tax reform at least the beginning of that section relating to these two laws. And I would say that I don't think as some of my colleagues that the government is smarter than the MPs, but I think our government is very smart, I think our government is very capable and I think our government is visionary. And in any case, it's a developmental thought, both through these two laws and through the budget that we've skipped, but of course we're going to do it thoroughly tomorrow. So this is all inexplicably tied up, as a package of new movement Croatia and development in that sense, which should bring good to the central state on the gulf, but units of local smog management and despite this powerful story that units of local self-government and I was the head of a small municipality are constantly in an unfavourable position. And then the exact figures say that compared to 2003, in 2004, the country's share of the allocated amount, which was raised in terms of 6 billion and 608 million kuna as a base and that the state of 37 almost 38% last year, came to only 33% for 5% of the country's participation. You're not going to tell me now that these are just new receipts introduced by local self-government units. That the share of counties has increased and that the share of municipalities and cities has increased, of course. From 53% to 58% almost obsessing. So it did happen, however, that the unit's income has increased synthetically in this country. And that it is not the central state of the machete, the municipalities, but thinks that there is a need for parallel development of both entrepreneurs and local self-government units. Because that's the only thing that leads to the general development of society. And I'm glad that in this first income tax law, there was a development of that part of the incentive and birth rate through the addition of personal income plus increased deductions for each subsequent diet, so also social. But also in this part of the tax on profits and the development of entrepreneurship. Because, of course, I'm sure whoever makes a profit and whoever doesn't pay a dividend tax with that money won't keep it in their stocking today because no normal entrepreneur does it. It's going to put it into new development, or it's going to put it into consumption that's going to stimulate new production again. And of course it's a circle with no end that carries a better standard, each one of us. And that is why I support especially what the state wants to introduce in order to monitor the income of entrepreneurs who have so far been able to choose between whether they will be registered as a craftsman, whether they will be registered as a company, I would say introduced to the register where they belong either by the number of employees or by their total income. And thus systematically modern and in scale with the way Europe is doing it, which we will enter very quickly, of course prepared because these laws will, of course, already be if necessary and improved in application. So we with accounting standards will monitor business in a way that what is really in the company is both well recorded and with the state in line and supported in terms of rates that are among the lower of course in Europe. And through these new possibilities of depreciation and certain releases. And that's why I deeply believe that the government knows exactly what it's doing, and that after this first reading with these perhaps some remarks that the government has listened well to, we will accept and return that prose system that we had until 99, because now I'm not going to say what happened in the meantime. Any change is a shock to entrepreneurs, any change that is common and not understandable leads to the daunting of not only accounting workers but also, of course, the directors responsible for the business of their companies and I am therefore deeply hoping that this simplified way of comprehensive coverage and inflow into the state budget will be one that will ensure that the standard that is sought on the outflow side. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-17-0.u25576	Thank you very much. Replica esteemed representative, Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-17-0.u25577	So you see here today trying to say that the municipalities and cities are in 2004. You don't even know what I'm going to replicate, but you're answering me. That's good. It's a good thing you've announced that you know what I'm going to say. I want to say that in 2004, municipalities and cities got a lot of money from income tax and profit tax. I've got this plate that the minister read. That's the same thing. However, there was no change in the law, so there was no increase in decentralisation income. I don't know how then cities and municipalities got so much money at the expense of the state. Let us be aware that there is a law on financing, which said that certain income is decentralised so that the common tax is divided into three partners, the state, the county and the city and the municipality, and there has been no change of the law. Obviously, this disproportionateness is due to a transfer from the state. That one. The second in the column is the city of Zagreb. SE also counts the city of Zagreb, which gives this imbalance to municipalities and cities in relation to an county. And the city of Zagreb is not only a city and county, but also an office of state administration. So he has a triple role. So let's not get the impression now that the cities are getting some big money this year. The cities received this year as much as they received in 2003 and received from the fund a settlement of as much as they received in 2003. And yet again there's a problem for the 12th month that I warned you about. And finally, if we take the city of Zagreb, we exempt from this, 96% of taxes are collected on Mark's square, and in Stjepan Radić Square, 4% of taxes are collected in the rest of the Republic of Croatia. That's how strong our local self-government is, 4%.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-17-0.u25578	Thank you. Reply to the replica, respected representative Ivana Sučec Trakoštanec.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-17-0.u25579	Of course I didn't know exactly what you were going to say but I could assume the meaning of what you were going to say. Of course, use my right to answer when I hear you and when I hear you. Then I deliberately didn't bring out a single piece of information from this table that was right in front of me. And it relates to the transparency of the Government in 2003 and the Government in 2004 where three times the amount of unscheduled funds was reduced in favour of the Government, so the state did not leave itself some kind of automatic right with a certain amount of money to be left unknowable. It was directed directly to the users this time, so it strengthened the share of the country accordingly. Here's one of the data and everything else is available to you, and I can see that you're good at talking to others, so then my interpretation of this goes to the government that has the state budget in 2004. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-17-0.u25580	Thank you very much. Minister. Minister of Finance, Mr. Ivan Schuker, final review.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-17-0.u25581	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, for the debate. And normally, before we refer the bill to another reading, we will consider all these remarks. But I can't help but respond to a comment by the respected representative Mršić, who said that in 2003 and 2004, money regarding decentralisation is the same, however. The 12th month was not controversial, but in 2004 it was controversial. That's amazing.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-17-0.u25582	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. Proposed profit tax law, first reading. Proposal for Law No 192. The debate is closed. I am voting on the following conclusion: The proposal for a tax on profit is adopted. All objections, proposals and opinions will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare the final draft law. Please, let's get on with it. The vote. The result? I find that with 81 votes for, 6 abstentions, 23 against the proposed conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-17-0.u25585	Thank you. Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. I'm sorry that such a big problem won't be discussed tonight in a broader debate and I'm sorry there's nothing to suggest, and neither does the government's representatives have anything to say. Starting with the fact that 109,104 disabled workers live in Croatia and that their rights are not uniform in the category itself, so the category of disabled workers, the SDP Club supports the proposal for conclusions on the establishment and exercise of the rights of disabled workers. The Croatian Assembly in the field of the establishment and exercise of the right of disabled workers adopted the Pension Insurance Act, which significantly changed the situation of unemployed persons with disabilities compared to pre-existing regulations. Before 1 January 1999, the salary paid by disabled workers during unemployment was determined in relation to the average salary made by that person in the year in which the disability occurred, so that the amount of compensation could not be below 60% of the average salary. After 1 January, this right has been converted into a disability pension due to a professional inability to work, which is set at 60% of the full disability pension, i.e. according to subsequent amendments to that law of 80% of the full disability pension. The Pension Insurance Act also laid down the rights of persons who have been granted the right to a disability pension because of their professional inability to work and that is different. Depending on whether disability is recognised before or after the law enters into force, so that disabled persons who are disabled due to a disease on 1 January 1999 are entitled to 1/6 of those whose right is subsequently established 1/3 of the full disability pension. Labour disabilities caused by occupational disability or occupational illness, and the status was established before 1 January 99, with the salary being made 1/6 of the full disability pension, while those who have been found to be disabled after that, earn 1/2 of the full disability pension. The Law on Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities, which came into force at the end of 2002, unfortunately does not apply. The Administrative Board of the Professional Rehabilitation and Employment Fund of persons with disabilities has been resolved and is not newly appointed. 21 million kunas foreseen for the work of the Fund for this year have remained unused, i.e. no kuna has been spent to improve the status of disabled workers. Although we disagree with the Government's opinion on this proposal, i.e. not to accept it, we agree that many of the problems of the economy at the time, the illegal conversion of the 1990s created technological surpluses that were generally solved through disability insurance. The SDP Club supports the proposal for a conclusion proposed by the HNS PGS Representatives Club, which obliges the Government of the Republic of Croatia to conduct complete analyses within 90 days on the situation of persons with disabilities, a proposal for a law that will correct injustice from 1998 and create conditions for implementing the Professional Rehabilitation and Employment Act for persons with disabilities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-17-0.u25586	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HNS Club PGS, Mr. Representative Nikola Vuljanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-17-0.u25587	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, we set out to propose these conclusions to the Croatian Assembly, primarily to encourage the injustice that occurred with the disabled after 1999. Namely, what's the matter? Over the past decade, companies in Croatia were privatised as privatised, one violent and now proved inefficient, hundreds of thousands of people found themselves on the roads, for the number that had such conditions for going to a disability pension, the state took care of very benevolent and very broad ways of allowing people to go into disability pensions. A large number of workers in that age, so the work was done from 90th to 99th, and he accepted that solution because he had no other solution. There were no new jobs, the social programmes the state was dealing with were more less caricature, in the best case palitative and the man who had any opportunity to go into disability pension went into disability pension. The disability pensions were known to be what they were. The example used in making these conclusions speaks of a person who had 1125 disability pensions. In order to halve the rule of law after 1.1.1999. People, disabled people from work, have found themselves in a situation that so far they have barely survived what the state has designated as a disability pension, and that, after 1.1.99, they could no longer face reality at all, that they should survive from today until tomorrow, that they should be welcomed, that they should wait for the month. It was a fundamental, fundamental fact that led us to this initiative. We have not embarked on an initiative to propose legislation for the simple reason why we are fully aware of how the laws of the opposition in this House pass. And things that are less disputable, that cost nothing, which is just a matter of common sense, and they refuse because they come from opposition. We were convinced that the proposal to amend the law on this subject that would come from us, so from the HNS Club PGS, would be rejected in the same way. Accordingly, we have come up with a proposal for conclusions which the Government would commit to in some way consider the situation and, above all, develop a complete analysis of the material situation of people with disabilities and to discuss this analysis, to take views, to try both through debate and through possible new legislative proposals to help those who need this assistance most. In the meantime, this is now in the Fuss note, meanwhile there was a debate on the LIBRE proposal on value added tax for aids of the blind, and the proposal was air-refused, too, which, let's just say, made me feel sorry for it. I did not expect the Croatian Parliament to make such a decision, I expected even less that I would sit in a Parliament that would make such a decision. This concerns the same category of persons. So, those who are more or less at the mercy and mercies of the government, of the mercy and mercies of the community. The conclusions we propose do not oblige anyone to provide them with a happy life from tomorrow morning, at last it is impossible. But these conclusions here, if they were accepted, would be obliged by the Croatian Parliament and the Croatian Government to start thinking about that category of inhabitants. So, according to which a good part of the social, social arm of the Croatian state should be directed. So, we have proposed to make an analysis, we have proposed amendments to the Pension Insurance Act which will bring about those rights that the disabled had before the last amendment. We have also proposed that amendments to the Health Insurance Act be made to ensure that insurance undertakings are granted the right to a disability pension the full amount of compensation as determined during the prevention of work. In addition, the Government is obliged to adopt sub-legislative and implementing acts which would make this whole topic more formal and that would give it the opportunity to apply directly. There were reasons why we went into this initiative. In the meantime, we discussed the implementation of the last budget, and we saw that nothing was done in the last budget on that plan, therefore, on the agenda of helping disabled people. Moreover, even those items provided for, therefore, by the government's budget are not realised. We also discussed some remarks and suggestions to amend tax laws in order to help this category of citizens who need help. I'm afraid we haven't done much. Discussions in this House on such topics usually take place before the three-quarters of an empty assembly. The most often takes place the declarative interest of a pair of always pre-specified representatives, and not much of which is achieved. If this House supports the constitutional provision under which Croatia and the social state are, besides the rest, I think it would be high time for the Croatian government to commit to do something urgent and implementing and concrete for this category of citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-17-0.u25588	Thank you very much. On behalf of the promoter, Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-17-0.u25589	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Let me just have five important notes on this proposal, but first I want to remind you, if I'm not mistaken, it's not on the bench right now. The Committee on Labour, Health and Social Policy, which discussed this proposal for conclusions some month and a half ago, adopted points 1 and 4 of our proposed proposals and some compromise solutions took place in relation to points 2 and 3. So I ask you, before voting on this item, to remind yourself of the position of the parent board, and that decision has been taken unanimously on that committee. So, in part these four points proposals, the conclusions are accepted with a little modification of points 2 and 3. I will ask the chairman of the board, if it is possible to repeat that position, because most of the committee's representatives may have noticed that, in the meantime, because it was a long time ago. I'm glad that the board, the parent board, unanimously came to such a point of view, and probably the arguments that we made to them were such that they suggest that this House be supported. We have submitted this Opinion of Conclusions in the procedure at the beginning of June 3, June and then provided for a deadline of 90 days for the Government to come with the requested, or with the conclusions, precisely because this matter would be resolved in this House and before the state budget and other legislation so that we would not be in a position to discuss this subject after we have adopted amendments to the Peace Act, the State Budget and all that can affect the realization of these conclusions. So we've been looking for a full analysis of the material position of disabled workers. And that this analysis is addressed to the Parliament for discussion. How many citizens of this country are concerned, according to the last data we have due to professional incompetence, 38 thousand 302 pensioners, therefore, what we call disabled workers, who receive an average pension from a thousand kuna. When did the largest number of these pensioners come into existence? Between 93 and 98, and these data were visible to you in the Report of the Peace Fund that we discussed at the last session that in those 4.5 years the largest number of disabled workers came into the system first so-called. care and later pension reform that came into effect in 1.1.99 became pensioners. However, with one less pension than the amount they received when they were on phantom care. And it is no secret that the largest number of these people were also sent to a disability pension, in the process of preparing the sale of companies because future customers who were already in the system wanted to get rid of sick, sick, powerless, older workers. The very fact that the change of laws has retroactively led to certain changes in status. Some of them forced them to seek the protection of the Constitutional Court. The first charges in the Constitutional Court were also filed at the end of 99 and 2000. In March of this year, I asked the Constitutional Court for the state of the case under one such constitutional suit, which was filed in early 2000, and the Constitutional Court replied that this applicant whose fate I am interested in is not the only applicant in the case but rather a larger number of applicants as well as a number of contested provisions of the law. And now watch out, and the complexity of matter contributes to new submissions as well as the subsequent adoption of regulations from that area, so for four years, the Constitutional Court has not reached a verdict in any of the submissions they have received under the same provision of the Pension Insurance Act, because there are many, therefore it is complicated for them. These people were unable to exercise their rights to the Constitutional Court because they felt their rights had been lifted. Secondly, we have asked for amendments to the pension insurance law to be offered to the Assembly, which will correct that injustice from 98th, third changes in health insurance which will be granted to workers who have been sent to the disability commission and for months on end of the disability assessment on the invalidity commission, to recognise a stay of 100% of what they do not have the right now, and fourthly to finally adopt sublegal acts and to finally start applying the Law on Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities, and in this year, 21 and million kunas have been planned for the following year, and 20 million are planned and no kuna will be spent unless this law is finally implemented. What did the Government give in its response? The protection of persons with disabilities was carried out because the monetary incomes that had previously been temporary character were replaced by long-term monetary incomes without re-evaluation of work ability, so it was their privilege but it was also recognised that they were systematically disabled pensions due to their professional inability to work objectively below disability pensions due to general or permanent inability to work, so it was approximately necessary to justify why they were still lagging at the level of pensions and reminding me that in 2001 the increase of their pension factor by 20% was only partially compensated. I'm reading and quoting the government's opinion. In addition, the Government of the Republic of Croatia envisaged, in late 2004, the work to amend and supplement the Pension Insurance Act under which it will look at open issues related to the situation of labour inhabitation. By the end of 2004, that too must be changed because the government has told us so in its own obvious. Finally, with regard to the application of the Law on Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has seen certain developments in the implementation that could not have been brought by sublegal acts in due time. In this connection, an expert working group working to improve relations in this area has been appointed, the implementing rules have been prepared as a whole, but the previous amendments and additions to this Act are needed and will soon be submitted to the Croatian Assembly. So, if we want the fund to function, the Law should be changed by the Government to adopt sublegal regulations and all that by the end of 2004. So in June we proposed 90 days, so September, October, now the November session of the Parliament ends December 15th, so we were objective in those deadlines not insisting on the pre-determined solutions. We did not ask for the lack of money or decidated demands but told the government that after the analysis it itself offers solutions that should make the existing people who are retired compensate for the lag behind and that finally the Fund for Disabilities and Rehabilitation and their employment is functioning. As a result, the parent board was probably in favour of most of our proposals, so I expect your support when this is voted on, despite the government's differing opinion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-17-0.u25590	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HSS Club, Ms. Ljubica Lalic. She's gone, she's losing her right. And Mrs. Zdenka Chuhnil, there's no losing her right. I'm closing the debate. He'll decide later.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-17-0.u25591	Keep going. Proposal for a conclusion on the establishment and exercise of the right of persons with disabilities. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, I am voting on the following conclusion: The proposal for a conclusion on the establishment and exercise of the right of disabled workers proposed by the Club of Representatives of the CNS, PGS, is not accepted. Please engage. Please vote. The result? I find the conclusion accepted, the proposed conclusion, with 68 votes in favour, four abstentions and 39 against. We have another conclusion, a proposal from the Committee on Labour, Social Policy and Health, which reads: Under 1. The Government of the Republic of Croatia undertakes to draw up a full analysis of the material situation of disabled workers and to deliver the debate to the Croatian Parliament as soon as possible. And two. The Government of the Republic of Croatia undertakes to adopt, as soon as possible, sublegal acts implementing the Law on Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities and to submit a report to the Croatian Parliament on the implementation of this Act. Mr. Vice President, Minister?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-17-0.u25592	Thank you. Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-17-0.u25593	Thank you. I'm on it, let's get on it. I am putting this proposal to the vote. The result? I find that the conclusion was reached with 108 votes in favour, 1 abstention and 1 against.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-17-0.u25594	We move to - Proposal for a conclusion on a fairer distribution of money obtained by profit taxes – Proposer of the Club of Representatives of the HNS-PGS. You received the proposal by post, the debate was conducted by the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, the Committee on Economy, Development and Reconstruction and the Committee on Local and Regional, Regional Self-Government. You received reports at the session, the Government of the Republic of Croatia delivered an opinion. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. On behalf of the promoter, Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar, please be my guest.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-17-0.u25595	We move to - Proposal for a conclusion on a fairer distribution of money obtained by profit taxes – Proposer of the Club of Representatives of the HNS-PGS. You received the proposal by post, the debate was conducted by the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, the Committee on Economy, Development and Reconstruction and the Committee on Local and Regional, Regional Self-Government. You received reports at the session, the Government of the Republic of Croatia delivered an opinion. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. On behalf of the promoter, Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar, please be my guest.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-17-0.u25596	Thank you. Do the representatives, the committee's rapporteurs want to take the floor? No, I don't. On behalf of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, Mr. Finance Minister Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-17-0.u25597	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So, one topic that is very interesting, but technically and practically inconclusive. Because for companies that have a single balance sheet, unique bookkeeping how to determine what part of getting waste on a business unit in one city or one place. To be honest, you know very well my position and the views of the government, as far as profit tax is concerned, our thinking is that in some near future it is the direct income of the local self-government unit. However, tell me, for example, Ina or some other company, how you will determine how much profit tax belongs to a gas station. Something that's just technically inconclusive. However, local self-government units have the opportunity to place their headquarters in these local self-government units through their decisions on municipal contribution and municipal compensation. So this is such a very handsome idea, but when you put it into practice then explain to me how you plan to implement it. How do you plan to share Ina's income, how do you plan to split the profits from Telekom, or those companies. How are you going to determine if you don't have special balances that don't run special balances? How do you plan to determine how many mails in Chakovec belong to a Telecom? How much does that happen? You also have, explain, but very interesting that these topics are dealt with by those who never put together a single balance sheet, who don't know what it means to put together a balance sheet. This idea isn't a month old, it's a long time old, but that idea is technically inconclusive. The cost of administration would be far higher than the collected profit tax. But I also say to throw the thesis that the city of Zagreb collects all the profits from the companies then one question is whether the citizens of Zagreb are cut off for the taxes they pay and with which they finance ZET and other municipal companies in the city of Zagreb, and all of them, when they come to Zagreb, use those blessings of ZET and all the other things. So I don't think it's good to focus on companies being registered in Zagreb. After all, Ina did not even pay the profit tax until 2004, therefore Zagreb did not earn any profit tax as far as Ina is concerned. We can talk about Telekom or some other companies, but I say that technically in the balance sheet of a single-balance sheet, we set up a portion of the profits that are just falling off some kind of business unit in some part of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-17-0.u25598	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. Respected, after the first in the name of clubs, the respected representative Nikola Vuljanić takes the floor, then you get the Rules of Procedure when the debate is opened. Here you go, pal Vuljanić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-17-0.u25599	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues, another initiative that doesn't come from any default settings. The fact is that the state of Croatia has opted for decentralisation, to reduce the share of central government in the functioning of what citizens see as a state. In order for this to happen, we need money. Money's being made all over the country. With this system of how things are now working, profit and income tax from the whole country is being left to the budget, the state budget 70%, 30% in the budget of those units of local self-government where the headquarters of these companies are and then eventually distributed back to where it is, where it is earned, where that money is earned. I would like to draw attention to the fact that Croatia is right, so I can say freely torn apart, torn apart by the fact that the range of national income is, therefore, the range of what citizens have in certain parts of Croatia between $1100 and $19,000 here in Zagreb. It's something that makes this country unequal, normal and logical, something that this Parliament should also keep in mind when considering making regulations and recommendations to the government that the government should do. It's like Mr. Lesar said, the fact that 80 and some 2.3%, the figures we have here, maybe I was wrong about what decimal, the profit tax is realized in the metropolis. Why? So simply because also investors, foreign investors who intend to invest and who invest larger funds feel more comfortable and safer in the centre of the state than to have, say, headquarters, that Deutsche Telekom is based in Orehovica or, say, Novi Vinodolski, that I don't know, Ina has a seat in Ogulin and so on. Yeah, except for Bechtel. The fact is also that some companies have a seat outside Zagreb, that some regions such as Ogulinska, here is colleague Vukic, significantly profited from Bechtel having its headquarters in Ogulin. But the fact is also that Bechtel stopped building roads in that part of Croatia and that the Ogulina budget is shrinking by 25 million, now these days compared to last year's budget. The fact is, the projects stopped, because the money's gone. That didn't happen here. What we don't think is correct is a statement that it's inconclusive. It's just not a fact. The employees of all these companies, banks, I say, Ine, any other large companies that operate with headquarters in Zagreb get paid where they live and where they pay. So, Zagreb bank in Karlovac, Ogulin, Rijeka, where it already is. What would be the problem with the account if it were to be paid to that employee where he realized it, what problem would be that part of the profit that belongs to the number of those account workers and the payment in favour of the units of local self-government where actually that money was earned. For example, if Zagreb's bank has a hundred employees and there are three employees of the Zagreb bank in Varazdin, then 3% of the profit tax would be paid in Varazdin. There's no problem with the billing, and it's a flossula that doesn't want to be organized. The government has rejected the proposal of these conclusions with two reasons. Both completely unsuspecting. One is that by doing that, one is that it's technically inconclusive to make it complicated in accounting, I don't see what complications it's made. The second is that it gets into the state budget and the central government's finances, it's just not true. These 70% of the profit tax available to the central government in this proposal has no words, nor have we thought about it at all. We were just thinking that the profit tax would be paid where it was earned, regardless of whether the company where it was earned had a branch or had its headquarters just outside the metropolis. Of course, such moves experience decentralisation by the central government, experiencing them as an attempt to change the government's policy. Well, of course that's true. Of course, this is what we're trying to change government policy with. Government policies on decentralisation are purely declarative, nothing other than grants treated as State spending is done to train local self-government units to function on their own and on their own in these units of local self-government. One of the age of the example was a few days ago the Law of Rescue in which we again gave the units of local self-government commitments that would eventually become significant financial, of course without any thought that these obligations should go to the funds, and with the reason that the funds would still come from the central cashier. So, units of local self-government have received a commitment, funds will come to central cash registers like, let's say, some kind of charity to those units of local self-government that won't be able to meet those obligations. And the government's decision on the amount of those funds earned where it will be spent is the rest in Zagreb. She stays in Mark's square or someplace like that. This is what the proposal of these conclusions intends to encourage to change. I think it is in everyone's interest, regardless of which part of Croatia we come from, even in the interest of Zagreb. Neither can Zagreb nor is it in the interest to be a huge head on some kind of dwarve and sick body. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-17-0.u25600	Thank you. On behalf of the promoter, the respected representative Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-17-0.u25601	Thank you very much, Mr. President. But not to fall into a trap and possibly not get a warning. If I've heard Mr. Minister's statement correctly, those who haven't put together a balance in their lives deal like this. Did I remember that correctly? As happy as I can be, unsatisfactory, angry or cheerful as I am about any proposal for this speaker, I've never used one personal sentence to anyone. What I used to do, whether I was putting together balance sheets, completely irrelevant to this subject. That's more than I could have said to the minister that I did similar jobs, but it doesn't matter. In the light of our proposals, we have made it clear that our proposal is not the most just solution, that it is not the most ideal solution, but that it is fairer than what we now have. And it is true that there are dilemmas or issues that are well cleared, especially if it is possible to implement in practice. If we had asked companies to run for every branch in the field special accounting, then it would have been awfully stupid, because costs would have been higher than taxes paid. But we simply suggested that each company, when the bank calculates how much profit it has, how much tax is due to that profit, so how much tax is it to divide the amount of tax with the total number of employees and get the amount of tax per one. And if there are 100 employees in Osijek County, 100 people employed times the amount of tax per employee's head is the amount to be paid to Osijek County. On one established record of personnel service all year round, it's worth no new bills and maths, and for a company with 2,000 people, I'm setting it up in an hour. In an hour. It's enough to sort people out by county and city. There is also a third solution and a third model, which has been presented to the Committee on Finance by a member of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, which therefore has no influence with the parties. And who praised and said that this 70:30 share of income tax is of some European level and that this is the tendency that other countries are going to do, that it would not change it, but there is a third model that has also been applied and applied in the countries of the European Union, I will not exploit its name here because it would be incorrect to me. So you'd beg if this one of ours was so stupid and inconclusive, that the government applied or questioned about this third model. So perhaps on the basis of the advice of the Institute of Finance we might come up with a third model that would be more just than the one we have in Croatia at the moment. So if this isn't acceptable. And indeed these three models work in Europe. The one Croatia now has in the interests of local self-government is the most unjust for them. I know that everyone... and all those who are not here, and are also the mayors and mayors of municipalities and cities, no matter where the foreigners are, would accept this immediately. I understand that. And I know why they won't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-17-0.u25602	Thank you very much. Minister Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-17-0.u25603	So the basic principle of every country's tax policy is to pay by economic power. If we're going to come up with a profit tax based on the number of employees, according to the incomes of the local self-government unit, then I think we need to change the tax policy from the root. Then there will be no more tax on the profits of a corporation, but there will be taxes on the number of employees or something. Because it does not need to know that the business of a bank in Zagreb is making more profit than the bank's business in a smaller place. Therefore, the number of employees is no benchmark for profit. It's no standard. And it's no criterion to assign profits. So local self-government units have a lot of mechanisms to cite companies to change their headquarters. But what you're saying, then it would be five times simpler to get all that tax into the state, to have the state take how many employees they are, where these employees are alive and then transform funds from the state. But then how can we talk about decentralisation if the funds don't go directly from a summary and passing account to a jury account of local self-government units? So you're talking about something that violates the basic provisions of dual accounting, so the balance sheet that comes to the base of the profit tax calculation, and if we're going to go after only units of local self-government to come to part of the profit tax, and we're not keeping track of how much that profit is actually achieved in that area rather than how many employees there are, then we haven't achieved what we want again. The point is that income tax is paid according to what has been achieved because, according to your logic, if it means one business unit also achieves a negative business at the end of the year of the unit and local self-government would be able to collect part of the profit tax with the basis of a profit tax because some other business unit has achieved excellent business results. So it's just about justice, about nothing else. Because look, you're gonna make a profit by performing a certain economic activity you're using starting with municipal infrastructure and a series of other things that that unit of local self-government rules. Therefore, if a good business result is achieved there, then it is normal for that elective portion of the profits achieved in the area of that unit of local self-government to remain there. If we want to do that, it means that companies should run business books separately for each business unit. But this is such a very convenient solution. But this is a good-looking thing to hear. You have all said that every mayor except the City of Zagreb, the City of Osijek, the City of Rijeka, the City of Split, Zadar would accept this, but one other question is how fair he is and the basis of tax policy should be justice, the basis.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-17-0.u25604	Thank you. The Croatian Democratic Community's representative Nevenka Majdenic's club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-17-0.u25605	Your Honor, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament! The proposal for a conclusion on a fairer distribution of the funds obtained by the income tax of the HNS-PGS promoter is not acceptable for a number of reasons. As stated in the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the obligation to pay taxes was governed by the Tax on Profit Act No 127/2000. and 163/2003. in which Article 1(2) provides that the distribution of income from profit tax is governed by a special law. It is the Law on the financing of a unit of local and regional self-government that prescribes the amount of income from profits tax to county, municipalities and cities. This means that the different distribution of income from that tax can only be arranged by amending that law. Any amendments to the tax rules are closely linked to the state budget and, in any proposal for amending the laws affecting the revenues of the state budget, this should be greatly respected. We must bear in mind, and this is stated in the report on this proposal for the conclusions of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, that the generally accepted definition of the need for decentralisation of the functions of the state in favour of units of local and regional self-government is not properly implemented in practice, and in particular this concerns the existing way of funding local communities at all levels which do not ensure its normal functioning. For these reasons, it is necessary to seek to gradually increase the distribution of financial resources between the state and local self-government at all levels obtained from income tax and profit tax in favour of local and regional self-government units. However, the current ratio of 70 per cent of the profit tax to the state, 30% of local self-government at all levels is not so unfavourable but because of the high concentration of capital, a significant share belongs to large cities. It should therefore be proposed to propose a different distribution of funding at local level with the benefit of smaller units of local and regional self-government. I must point out that the tax on profit in European countries is paid towards the headquarters of a company. That criterion is prescribed by the positive legislation of the Republic of Croatia since the adoption of the Law on Profit Tax, so that the balance sheeting would have to be established in the event of a change in that system is very difficult to implement and could have direct implications for the Accounting Act and the Company Act. I believe that such a proposal for a conclusion cannot be accepted on the grounds that the criteria for the distribution of income from profit tax for units of local and regional self-government should be regulated in another way. In particular, this should also be stated in the conclusion of the Committee on Economy, Development and Reconstruction, to improve the control of the display of income tax as well as the effectiveness of taxation and the same profit. Units of local and regional regional self-government should find the modes of attracting profitable companies to tax policy measures that are within their jurisdiction. For all these reasons, the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community proposes that the proposal for a conclusion on a fairer distribution of funds obtained by tax on the profits of the HNS-PGS representative club promoters is not accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-17-0.u25606	Thank you very much. Correction of incorrect allegations, respected representative Nikola Vuljanić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-17-0.u25607	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to correct two incorrect allegations. The colleague again stated that accepting such conclusions and such a model or similar would affect the state budget, which is simply not a fact. 70% of the profit tax per possible model remains in the hands of the central budget. And another inaccuracy. We don't propose a new reckoning. We suggest distribution of the existing account. So the calculation as it is, what you get by calculating is distributed in another way. And in the final instance, if it is necessary to change the laws and adapt them to the new situation, then where is the problem? We are not making a proposal for a new law but a proposal for conclusions and it is up to the Government to make any changes to the law if necessary.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-17-0.u25608	Thank you very much. Does the proposaler's representative want a final word? ... Thank you. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I'm closing the debate. I'm interrupting the session. Tomorrow at 9.30 p.m. Proposal for a State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2005 with a draft budget for 2006 and 2007 with proposals for financial plans of a series of institutions and the Final Proposal for a Law on the Implementation of the State Budget for 2005. So far, there are 61 MPs and MPs and 4 clubs reported. Tomorrow we will work until we complete the debate on the draft budget and the budget law. We can get ready for a long debate that could get into the morning the next day. Thank you. By 9:30 tomorrow. Next, the proposal for a conclusion on the fair distribution of funds obtained by profit tax. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposals of the Committee and the Government of the Republic of Croatia, I am voting on the following conclusion: The proposal for a conclusion on the validation, establishment and fairer distribution of the funds obtained by the profit tax proposed by the HNS Club of Representatives, PGS, is not accepted. Please, let's get on with it. To vote. The result? I find the proposed conclusion has been reached with 76 votes in favour, four abstentions and 30 against.
