ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-08-0.u16357	Dear Mr. President of the Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. Here is one of our most important priorities as part of the judicial reform of the state of affairs in land books. The state of the land books I must say in our municipal courts is the result of a part of the inherited condition but also of the changes that occurred in the time of the 90s on this side. By the year 90, the social property book, the legal person was messy, while slightly better was the booklet of the rights of ownership of natural and civil-legal persons. The technical equipment of our grantines was certainly at the rank of the period of the Austro-Hungarian monarchy. After the 1990s, in particular after the adoption of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and the laws that are being converted into social property, many needs or subjects have followed for the purpose of registering ownership because of the consequences of the conversion of social property. Our land-based book departments are introduced at that time with information equipment and software that allowed the book ownership of apartments sold under the Law on the sale of dwellings on which there is a household law. And beyond that, very slowly moves the technical equipment of the grantines and the transfer of the hand-run land book into digital form. Today, in 65 municipal courts, this procedure is being conducted. The economy, especially our citizens, rightly seek the speed of settlement of the case. There is a valid dissatisfaction with the length of individual procedures and, in particular, where more cases appear as a lag for years as a rule. For example, the biggest backlogs are our two largest courts in the state, these are the Municipal Court in Zagreb and the Municipal Court in Split so on Day 31. 12. In 2003, 106 thousand 312 cases were held at the Municipal Court in Zagreb and 54 thousand 947 cases at the Municipal Court in Split. And the number of these cases as pending by that date makes up about 50% of all the gaps in the work of municipal courts or land-booking departments. In 2003, 376 thousand 580 cases were solved which were in court independently of the time when they were received, while the total number of unsolved cases from all previous years was 320 thousand 20 cases. And we have just put emphasis on resolving the situation in land books in these two courts in Zagreb and Split, and there is a special plan of activities in solving all the lagging objects and activities are not the subject of amending the law, the subject of the amendment of this Law is something else. The global policy on state-of-the-art in land books during this year as a priority has been set up and an agreement has been signed with the State Geodetic Authority to resolve the installation of the land-book database and in cooperation with the State Geodetic Authority a rule on land-based data has been adopted. On the basis of these acts, conditions were created for equating data between catasters and land books and keeping data entered. As a prerequisite for the success of the reorganisation of the land and book departments of all our courts in the direction of a quick resolution of all the requirements and the resolution of the backlogs, it was necessary to propose amendments to the Law on Land Books. And the fundamental features of these changes go in the direction of simplification and acceleration of the whole process of all in the booklets of real rights and general goods. In order to achieve these objectives, this Predolgo Act, which is before you, is prescribed that the proposals for the book be submitted in the form of the prescribed forms. The case shall be resolved on the basis of the facts and evidence attached to the proposals. To introduce authorized land-based book referencearies and they make a solution. Against the solution of the authorised land-booking referencer, the appeal shall be resolved by the Judge of the Municipal Court or if he finds that the motion is unfounded appeal solved by the Judge of the County Court. It is proposed that the earlier proposals are settled under the new Law over 30 days from the date of entry into force of the proposed Law. In particular, I would like to point out that authorised ULs are not judging, but are solving cases that are generally uncontestable. In the event the party declares an appeal against a solution brought by an authorised ZK referencer, the appeal is then resolved by the judge. The proposed amendment is practically a major dispensation of judges, but it also gives importance to a judge whose importance is therefore to judge and not to administer. For example, in the Zagreb court in Gruntovnica, there are 6 judges, per million inhabitants. With the introduction of land-book references with the license of these land-book references, only 35 will be in Zagreb. And, of course, it will be an important step forward. I must say that the election of an authorised UL will be very strict and only until now professional and admit if they meet the legal requirements will they have the opportunity to gain this right to decide. The total figure is projected to be around 270 authorised ULs, which would mostly be taken from current ULs. When it is known that today the ZK cases are solved by judges and that about 90 do ZK cases, along with ZK cases and other cases, and 15 only the ZK judges only performs ZK cases, then the number of land-booked authorised references plus the simplification of the whole procedure through the submission of proposals in the prescribed forms will result in far greater effectiveness and the exercise of citizens' rights in a very short time. Therefore, good and significant results are expected both to address the backlogs and to resolve newly accepted cases. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-08-0.u16358	Thank you. Do the Committee's rapporteurs want to take the floor? The chairman of the Justice Committee, Mr. Ivas, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-08-0.u16359	Dear President, honourable ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs. At the 7th session held on 6 July 2004, the Committee for the Justice of the Croatian Parliament discussed the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Land Books, with the final proposal for a law sent by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the President of the Croatian Parliament on 19 June 2004. The Committee discussed the law in question on the basis of its competence as set out in Article 73. Rules of Procedure in the capacity of the home working body. The proposer’s introductory representative informed the Committee’s members about the characteristics of the amendments and additions as well as the reasons for the urgency of the procedure. It is pointed out that the proposed amendments to the Law simplify judicial proceedings in land books, increase efficiency, achieves procedural discipline because the proposals are submitted on prescribed printers and are also regulated in a different way by the law of appeal. In the debate, most members supported the proposed legal solutions in order to reduce the number of land-based subjects and achieve the efficiency of the process. The proposer is advised to install more appropriate deadlines for the conduct of land-book reference bodies in the process of the law and to propose changes to the work of grantshops in due time. The text of the amendment and addition of the Law were also highlighted by certain members of the Committee. This is the case with Article 109b. which prescribes the conditions for land-based book references is proposed to amend the conditions in such a way as to delete the prescribed necessary professional preparation in point 2. and my condition would be a high professional prepared lawyer. Given that country-booking referents carry out the operation, procedures and decision-making. Article 5 is replaced by the following: And Article 5 of Article 109 adds new items, and prescribes that a messy proposal will be rejected by the court. However, the rejection of the proposal does not achieve the effectiveness of the land-book process because the rejection of the proposal is not resolved. The rejection of the proposal comes into question... the principles of helping ignorant parties. The proposal allows country-booked referents to make decisions, given the fact that judges have done so so far, to question whether it is an administrative or judicial solution, and whether it is to transfer cases from jurisdiction of the judicial authority to other persons. Article 7 is also amended as well as Article 123, which makes the appeal a remonstrate legal remedy. It is proposed to re-examine the article in a way that "if it is estimated to have been established" is replaced by the words "if it is appreciated that it is fully established". In paragraph 3 of the same article, the word "and change the solution" should be replaced by "and bring a new solution". And part of the sentence as well as the solution that the judge would bring under Article 109c. point (a) is replaced by the following: The Law on Land Books should be deleted for nomotechnical purposes. In the final statement, the applicant's representative referred to the comments made and the proposals pointed out that the applicant remained in the proposed solutions contained in the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Land Book, with the final proposal of the Law. After the debate was held, the Committee on Justice with 7 votes in favour and one vote against decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament the adoption of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Land Books. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-08-0.u16360	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the SDP Club, respected representative Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-08-0.u16361	Thank you, Mr. President, dear Madam Minister, dear colleagues and colleagues. When we talk about the effectiveness of the land-book system, we are, in fact, well talking about the effectiveness of the judiciary at all. Because land-book items, along with executive books, make up more than half of all the cases and all the backlogs that are in front of all our courts. Therefore, the construction of an efficient land administration system is precisely to contribute to the development of an effective real estate market on the one hand, but also to the efficiency of the judiciary as a whole, one of the most important tasks. It was one of the biggest tasks of the former government, so there should be both the current government and every future government. I would dare say that precisely because of such a difficult situation in the land, the largest project of the government coalition after the project of building the Zagreb-Split highway was just the sort of catastrophe and landowner. And to that end, the government has decided on a major project and to take a loan of almost 27m euros, and in addition 7 million kuna in the budget to support this big project has been provided. This project has been launched and certainly given in a normative but also in an additional and financial sense how our budget needs the funds to be effective in order to achieve it in particular in time. A large social survey was conducted between respondents, users and most respondents prior to and, i.e. to participate in the project. Our citizens who have this problem, and almost every citizen, thinks that it needs to be provided with compliance legally above all, ensuring legal regulations and its property rights, facilitating the transfer of property over property to heirs, facilitating the sale of real estate, making it possible to use real estate as a guarantee for obtaining loans, enabling the owner to obtain a building permit or perform some additional construction works. Similarly, what was interesting is that a major campaign among our citizens, which already points to the need for gender inequality and in this segment, is being carried out as part of the project, because women are least enrolled in the land as owners even though they are indeed co-owners and even property owners. Thus, in these enrolments that are ongoing, it is necessary to keep this in mind, that both later on or after the death of one of the mates or out - of - wedlock situations be much cleaner and simpler. Why is the situation so difficult about it is something the minister said, but as in many other Central and Eastern European countries, the land-booked catastrian system in Croatia has been poorly maintained not for years, but for decades. The inconsistency of landowners and catastra is something that we have inherited in essence, and that only reminds Croatia follows the Austrian-Hungarian tradition of the land-book system since the 1980s, where we have essentially a double system. The situation is particularly complicated after 45 years of nationalisation by introducing state property and by putting real estate in such a position as dead capital. In addition, huge taxes were so from first to 36% later reduced to 5%, which has just strengthened citizens' activity to take care of their country's state of affairs, so it has led to such a situation that in some situations I do not find rare such cases and such situations that there are particles in which the last entry was made more than the last one, or more than 100 years have passed. In some cases, catastrian plans were developed in 1905 and few were restored since nationalisation of 45. Even in areas where catastrian operations and plans are more current, because they are generally more relevant than the want books and they are in themselves incorrect in 30% of the cases. Therefore, these unreliable and incorrect systems extend the time of real estate traffic, increase their uncertainty, prevent the use of real estate as a credit guarantee, i.e. the establishment of a publishing law, in short, hampers the development of the real estate market. Property ownership in some areas is even more unclear because of the established practice of land transfer without registration of that transaction, of course for tax avoidance. In the past, however, there was a real reason why the tax was increased, but with a really reduced and a reasonable real estate tax, it should no longer be one factor that makes it impossible for proper enquiries. But it was also a big inheritance tax. However, what makes the system even more complex in its existing state are two systems of entry of real estate, one for land and the related buildings of standing building, and the other for apartments. So there's a book of contracts. The current situation of the catastra and the land is approximately different, i.e. it differs in some parts of the country. In Istria, changes are about 20 years old, and land-book records of course are even older. The cataster in Rijeka, Zadar and Dalmatia is somewhat more up-to-date. There are measurements five to ten years old but data in land books are based on plans made since 1940 and even earlier. There are currently more than four hundred thousand unsolved ZK cases in front of our courts and everything is, I would say everything because it's still a large number of lawsuits about three hundred thousand cases are litigation, so real disputes and real judicial matters and not 200 thousand criminal cases. Then you can imagine what our courts are mostly about, so mostly land things and executives that are really burdening this big system. The efficiency of the ZK system, of course, is also different in certain parts of the country depending on the ability to manage the system. Of course, there are always available funds but equally the application of new technologies, however, it must point out that the project is already giving results, that already last year we had a situation in smaller courts where it is possible at the same time to obtain a land-book excerpt. Of course, what burdens most is the situation in Zagreb, Rijeka and Split. Last year, the reconstruction of the land-booked department was completed in Split, their workplaces were increased, fully computerised, and then the situation in this one of our largest courts should be changed, or improved. What's very important is why I'm talking about this project the most because just by relying on this project and all the norms need to be such that if it feels like a narrow throat came on, it needs to change certain norms, then it's too much to fix. The project covers over a million particles, or approximately 250 thousand hectares. After five years of certainty, by establishing an effective mechanism, then the rest of the catasters and landowners in the whole country could run faster, much faster and simpler. In that sense, in the Ministry of Justice a few years ago, a special department was established two years ago in the civil administration that will be dealing with these matters. The five-year plan launched in 2001 at the Ministry of Justice goes further through further development and focuses precisely on electronic data processing. It is therefore very important to continue the computerisation of the judiciary as a whole, and especially here that follows this project. The catastrophe and the landowners. In 2002, according to the agreement with the Netherlands, the Croatian Government had yet to implement the entire series of projects, although in smaller places, which proved to be extraordinary but also showed that both our normative solution and our system that exists still rested on Austro-Ugarska is not itself a brake. However, there should be a whole series of not so many changes to support the existing system. What is ambitiously proposed by this bill as an idea is absolutely on the trail of the reform of the judiciary adopted by the government in the past term and parliament confirmed in the previous term and, where it is said, that it is necessary to change the position of land-booked officials so that they are given greater independence but what is even more important and greater responsibility in solving land-book cases. However, this bill of law, which the Government has given us and which we are now discussing, contains something that does not fit our system but also raises the issue of constitutionality itself. The subject matter has been resolved by fact-finding and real land-booking referents, but it was the judge who signed such solutions with responsibility. Every entry into our property has a constituent element, so property is obtained only by enrolling in the land book. Therefore, although the land-booking process is not a trial in that sense, a litigation of two opposing parties is not a trial in that sense, but precisely because of this element, the proposer, or just having in mind this fact, was supposed to take this very seriously into account in the proposal, because the solution adopted by the authorised land-booking referents appears to be not clear to the applicant himself, so other than the fact that special education is proposed in the law, so the probationary period, and then, when all of this goes away in Article 8(4), it is predicted that such an authorised court official can be entrusted with the conduct of affairs in the land-book procedure permanently. So again not absolutely and on one specified deadline. Therefore, what is basic and what the Government seems to me and we need to support it is to train the land-book system to be really very capable of land-booking referents and there is very little of them because it is very specific knowledge that is not used anywhere else and the medium-level expert is asked to be prepared. However, for the authorised under this proposal, a land-book reference should also require high professional preparation but any social or geodetic direction. However, the thing is that there is a particular, specific knowledge being sought here and the government has provided the truth two years ago should be true this was primarily meant for the needs and recording of the route or highway Zagreb-Split, so it has provided additional resources for a certain work of 5 hundred land-book references throughout Croatia and, above all, for those courts where the road passes, where the road passes. And we faced exactly the problem that there were a lot of people who appeared but who didn't have these necessary specific knowledge and even less experience. And that's why it was precisely in the Ministry that this department that was also authorized to do this specific education, that it was necessary to train people and only those people when they were trained then they were given the opportunity to work as referents at all and it seemed to me that we were going back to these people and even those who would give them more authority in the land-book referendum, in the land-book department, they needed to be trained first. But I'm saying, I'm not even sure about that either, so the procedure is threatening to make the procedure even more complicated because we've now got three degrees or three degrees in the ownership process.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-08-0.u16362	Please finish.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-08-0.u16363	So, after the judge's solution, after the judge's senior court and for the murder, we only have two stages. Therefore, the SDP Club is deeply doubtful, or does not believe, not only because of these constitutional dilemmas, but precisely because of these remarks that I have pointed out that it is not possible for colleagues to speed up these proceedings in more detail in their debate, but rather by three degrees in the process, we will make this process even more difficult. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-08-0.u16364	My colleague, thank you very much. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative Maria Byte.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-08-0.u16365	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleague Anticevic said this is the biggest project by the coalition government behind the Zagreb-Split road. In fact, it is an incorrect allegation because the coalition government did not start or finish the development of Croatia in 2000 to 2004. So as the strategic interest of the Republic of Croatia in the 1970s, the Zagreb-Split road through Bosnia was supposed to go, and in the 1990s, the Croatian Democratic Community as a strategic project through Like that. 93rd President Tudjmam opened his works on the tunnel of St. The deadline when some parties of coalition authorities said we would now be mushrooms in it. It is also open, works on the Olive Bridge etc. As for the land-based book system, which is the strongest project behind Croatian roads, according to a respected colleague, the funds since last year have not even been spent, the tender for the purchase of information equipment has been cancelled, and the audit found that 88% of the insurance funds last year have not been spent, so much for the strongest projects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-08-0.u16366	Correction of an incorrect alleged, respected representative Emil Tomljanovic. Please, colleague Anticevic, breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-08-0.u16367	Your Honor, the provision of Article 209 has been re-injured, and this has otherwise been settled in our House of Commons, and under the cover of the correction of an incorrect quote, we still do not have such a tile. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-08-0.u16368	You're not right because you've made certain claims that the MP disputed as incorrect. Dear Representative Emil Tomljanovic is correcting the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-08-0.u16369	Your Honor, Mr. President, here I am only trying to concentrate on facts. Therefore, an esteemed colleague said among other things that the unfortunate land-based book situation for the reason that inheritance or inheritance is burdened in terms of taxation, or tax system. This is incorrect or only partly true, because according to the provisions of the Real estate tax law, the first inheritance order is free from paying taxes on real estate. That's the first quote. And secondly, it is incorrect that the proposer, or the Government of the Republic of Croatia, had no specific knowledge to be given by the authorised ZK referents. And in that sense, what the esteemed representative said was that someone else's role in the exercise of the judicial authority was shifted. Let me just mention two sentences. So this is just about uncontestable or non-contestable things that should fall into the decision of the authorised ZK referents in all other things, of course the judges will have... Decisions. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-08-0.u16370	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Club of HSP Representatives, Honored Representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-08-0.u16371	Mr. President, Madam Minister on departure, colleagues and colleagues. First, the HSP Club gives full support to the Minister of Justice and the Ministry of Justice in implementing the reform because we know what our situation is like in the judicial section. That is why the HSP expert group on the area of justice is also at the disposal of the minister in the effective implementation of the judicial reform in a way that the Croatian judiciary is in the position of Croatian citizens. Today, we also have a very important topic and it is the state of our land books. And that topic is very important, and that's why the HSP Club voted in favour of the urgency of this law. In fact, we know our own situation in land books. We have heard here from both the current and the former minister and it is very important for the legal certainty of the citizens that the situation in the grantovnica has been arranged for us, that the exact data in the grantovnica is accurate and that information is up-to-date, and this is particularly important in relation to the traffic of real estate. It is also very important, we heard our people from the diaspora about investment and investment in the Croatian state, meaning in the Croatian economy. Because one of the most important preconditions is that the condition in the land books is arranged and that no different variations happen when people buy something to buy a cat in a bag. And that's because there's no update and the problem with us is that we have a big part of the so-called. out of book ownership. And in that part, the Ministry of Justice and the Government really has the full support of the HSP that this situation is resolved because, it is about 400,000 items waiting and most of us are in such a situation here, and even the representatives of the HDZ that they are also waiting for a solution in the grants for enrolment in land books. So let's give full support. When it comes to the very part of the law, it is clear to us that, that it is, that it is, that it is a copy of a solution from Austria and Germany, they have a system like this that authorised land reference officers can carry out these tasks. With the fact that here we really have to say that there are certain objections to constitutional nature. Namely, because we come to a situation where civil rights are decided by the referents. This is a problem one, and it could have negative consequences for international trials if it means citizens have the right to seek their own protection and in an international court, and it could also have certain problems. We already have a case that our court advisors are already involved in this part of the judicial reduction, so they can also handle some simpler matters instead of judges. There may be, though, a proposal at the Constitutional Court for the assessment of constitutionality. In my opinion, the situation is better because of the degree in lawyers who have passed a judicial exam. So this problem also has to be pointed out because there might be a later problem. Truth is, the biggest problems are in the area of the Zagreb and Split courts where the most unsolved cases are. So we're going to support this variant, too, but I think it might be a more legally correct version, so that's a word from 250 to 300 new judges who could run these things and solve it. Okay, the government has decided on this variant, and we will support it because it is finally starting to solve the subjects of citizens and begin to solve the books. The other problem that concerns all of this is also that the application for protection of legality is lifted. I don't think that's a good look from the point of view. We had a situation that in the area of Istria the municipalities and cities were registered in the grantovnica that the owners of forests and forest land and were immediately about 91, 92 years old, these many disputes of the state's attorney's office were launched and this is a huge problem because these municipalities and cities were parceling it out and they were already selling it so it was a huge, huge legal problem. And I don't know if this is the smartest solution to lift the law enforcement request in all those cases where a state attorney has to react on behalf of the state to protect state property. So that's, that's another problem, that means constitutional legal nature, and in that part, that we allow the state's attorney's office to always have in terms of protection means that the state's interests can react in time because if we're going to do so in such legal situations, we could only go to that part of repeating the procedure and it's a far longer procedure than this variant when a state attorney can react. I will look further at the very text of the law, and we really should hold a full debate on the Committee on Lawmaking and continue to try to make it simple, brief and clear, norms or articles and provisions of articles. Yesterday we had that case that I was saying, let's say that holding a cigarette would be a violation. So the attitude was probably meant to be the attitude of the sale. Now we have this variant, look at the membership... the management and business procedure is carried out by the head of the land books. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Right there are two things, one thing is variants, so in legal terrorism there is conduct and resolution. One, it's mostly in administrative law. So the variant that he can conduct the procedure means doing all the work when he's running the procedure, but he doesn't make a solution. And it exists according to the ZUP means the authority to be authorised, and it must have at least the sixth degree of the professional direction of the legal direction, for example, if it is the ZUP that it can lead, carry out all actions in the process and procedure itself, but it does not bring a solution but the decision is made by a head or person who is a graduate lawyer or is the head of that act. So here it was very simple and brief to say. The procedure leads and the solution is made by the head of the land books or by an authorised land book clerk. And we solved it right away. So let's legal, Croatian simply say what we want, that variant. So it's about authorized, not unauthorized, not any land-book reference that has the authority of the President of the Court and we have automatically solved this problem simply Croatian. Let us, on Article 2, in paragraph 97, change paragraph 3, then in paragraph 3, says in the first, “Minister in charge of the affairs of the judiciary”, and then in the second sentence, “Minister of Justice”. So let's get that statement straight. So it's either the minister of justice or the minister of justice. In that context, Article 2 of the proposal which is not submitted on the prescribed printer. Now we have to distinguish legally what the pattern is, which is the print. This is where you think of the pattern. The pattern is when something is correctly determined and prescribed which content is and what must be contained, is it not? And the printer can be anything else. It is right that the form and content of the form are prescribed by means of either the Minister of Justice or others, and the printing and the form is not the same. Let us also mention Article 5: “The court will reject the disorderly proposal, and the proposal not accompanied by all the contributions necessary for the decision on the basis of the proposal will be rejected by the court.” So let's get back to the fundamental principle of law. If you're not going in, in the process. When you're in the process, it's rejected. If you're in the process, you're out. And if you mean because of the fact that the object isn't complete, then it's rejected. And that's being rejected. So here we're chasing the issue of rejection and the question of rejection. Refusal is when it enters the process, and that, and rejection is in all these variants when it is not a proposal, it does not contain everything that must be contained and it is then rejected and given to man the opportunity to complete that part. So let's go on, to those simple legal statements in a way that we can fix this situation where we are. So there's still something we need to say. The minister herself said what a problem it was that she had discovered, and I think that in the area of Zagreb there is that corruption affair about false books without validity, without legal basis, meaning in this part it really has to be carried out, because here it is now, it is simple things and normally it has to be dealt with as quickly as possible, but it has to be ensured that one effective control is going to be done by any of the judges who here writes that there would be no such variations that are past the rules and in a way that means counter-requisitely what is already a criminal act, to prevent this possible corruption from happening in that part, and we know that unfortunately there is. Therefore, we will not submit amendments, and I ask you to repair that part of the editorially, the president is probably also in agreement, and I thank you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-08-0.u16372	On behalf of the HDZ Club, a respected representative of Rade Ivas.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-08-0.u16373	Honored President of the Croatian Parliament, Honored Representatives of the Government, colleagues and colleagues! In front of us is the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Land Books, which was referred to in the procedure by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The government has proposed the adoption of this Act by emergency procedure because it is certainly important and particularly important for the state of interest that can contribute to faster progress in the market economy and entrepreneurship. And it is certain that these measures that are proposed will contribute to the effective resolution of land and book cases, and thus to the rapid development of the legal traffic of real estate, and will contribute to the resolution of backlogs in courts. For these reasons, the Croatian Democratic Community Club will support this bill. But the situation in the land books is bad, unscheduled, unsettled, technically lagging and the brakes are... the economic progress of the Republic of Croatia. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] As a result, legal certainty, legal confidence, corporate freedoms, property integrity, investment security are also at risk, and urgent measures must be taken to address this. The situation is really alarming. Of all outstanding cases in courts, more than a third concern land-book cases. In the country there are more than 300 thousand unsolved earth-book items that are being solved with 5 years of delay. The data between the land book and the catastra are estimated to vary by more than 50%, ranging from about 18 million cadastrian particles in some 3,000 and 300 catastrian municipalities in the area of the state. It should be borne in mind that geodetic measurement or catastra data is the basis for land books. But if the data differs in land books and land catasters for book rights are relevant data in land books. It's clear until they change in accordance with the law. The legal certainty of all participants in the legal traffic of real estate can be achieved only by effective action of the principle of the publicity of real rights in real estate and by the related principle of protection of trust in the land book. The good functioning of land books is therefore extremely important for the safety of transport. It is particularly important that land-book functions are successfully accomplished, but the protection of trust in land-books is such that the function cannot be achieved in the majority. The causes of this condition are multiple. We can only count some. Insufficient investment in geodetic measurement, lack of urgency and correction of land books. Experience teaches that any executive authority in these premises is extremely difficult to invest in the material basis of the judiciary, even at the level of investment in that same executive power of administration. Here I would say that especially burdens the land's book the ease of tax services. In order to facilitate business, which is only apparent, they manage to push through standards that prohibit the entry of real rights in land books if there is no previous payment of real estate tax and other tax obligations of traffic participants. Since these obligations are often unreally high-ranking real estate rights holders, they are defended from the tax press by not entering bankruptcy rights, and as a result, they are certainly the unsatisfactoryness of land books, as well as the lower tax paid. The Law on Land Books, which entered into force on January 1, 1997, has been amended on several occasions, but in its practice so far, it has shown that judicial proceedings are too long and there are major lags in most courts. That there is a significant increase in the number of land-based subjects, that a large number are present, that largely there is a lack of harmonisation of land and cataclysm. That proposals for enrolment in land-based books are submitted incompletely, disorderly, and that is precisely what burdens courts, that some solutions in the Law have caused delay in handling and increasing the number of pending cases. In order to improve this situation, changes and additions to the Law on Land Books have taken place precisely with the aim of achieving greater efficiency and up-to-date of land books. In order to achieve this, these amendments to the Law are proposed: 1. The introduction of ground-book references that independently make solutions in the land-based process. These land-book references are named by the President of several courts, and at the proposal of the Land Court in which the official works. He should be particularly educated and has an obligation to pass an expert exam. The bill stipulates that Earth-book referencers must have a higher or medium professional preparation of the social or geodetic direction. With regard to this expert arrangement, there are many objections, and it is also pointed out on the Committee on Justice that, since the country's library referents carry out the operation in the process and make solutions to ensure that they have a high level of expertise, they have completed a law school. But here we can make one principled observation that in fact these changes accept the condition that today is, today, the country’s library refs are running procedures in land books, and in fact, the judge is just signing that solution. Other forms are made to submit submissions in land books, submissions to land book mills. In accordance with Article 97 of the Law, new items are added to which it is prescribed that, in order to increase efficiency, the ministry will prescribe that proposals are submitted in land books on prescribed printers, they should be written safely, in the prescribed forms. And what is very important is to delete the provisions on the need for the country’s library court to legally study parties and to prescribe that disorderly and incomplete proposals are rejected or rejected. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal The law actually changes the current situation where there is a mass phenomenon that proposals for enrollment that they are messy or without the necessary documents, leading to the creation of so-called. the calendar files, and the court's request to instruct the party on how these shortcomings should be addressed in the proposal. In addition, it is a common situation in practice that such files are thus obtained a filling that prevents the implementation of a whole series of other subjects related to the same land-based book body and which then generates a large number of unsolved objects, this also means a backlog in the work. Here, a principle observation can be made whether rejection or refusal of an irregular proposal achieves efficiency in work, as cases are not resolved and the question of the implementation of the principle of legal assistance to the ine-EU parties is also raised. And fourthly, by resolving the right of appeal to solutions, it is possible for the country's library judge to accept, in the process of overseeing the work of the authorised referencing officer in order to take the appeal more quickly and efficiently, if the assessment that the decision has been established, i.e. in whole or in part, alter the decision or the proposal refuses. Fellow Members and colleagues, the Croatian Democratic Community club believes that the proposed amendments to the law will achieve a basic goal, which is to increase the efficiency and urgency of land-based book courts and reduce the number of pending cases. That's why they'll support the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-08-0.u16374	Thank you. On behalf of the HSS Club, the respected representative, Josh Vresk.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-08-0.u16375	Mr. President, Madam Secretary of State, Mr. Assistant Minister. Of course, when we talk about land books, there are always only two goals in mind, and I think it's much simpler. The first and the basis of the goals is to arrange for the housing in land books to correspond to the actual state. That's it. Take out the land books in a way that matches the onal state that's in the catastro. We know for a fact that the catastre does not run the property of the land book's property. Catasar is a set of facts, a set of facts and its operatives are essentially tot. And another important goal is to accelerate land-based library procedures and, of course, to solve the backlogs that we have heard are currently about 400 thousand objects. Immediately to announce the Croatian Peasant Party club will support this Act because we believe that at least part of the other goal will be solved, i.e. Resolving backlogs and speeding up proceedings in front of land-based book courts, but I also have a few sentences to say. Namely. The history is as it has been, and all the laws on land books have started since 1933, so in the next few decades, the following are the ideas of Austria’s or Austria’s land law. And this new law on Earth books that seems to me from '96 follows that lead. Which is what it means. This means that these regulations that are strictly formal, formally strict and must be, because it is a matter of ownership, cannot be as they are to allow the procedure to be conducted in a faster way and there is a need to intervene there. It seems to me not only that it seems to me but I'm sure I should have written a new law on land books and now I'm going to tell you why. We will indeed do with these changes offered by the Government to speed up the process, solve the backlogs, but we will not meet the state of the land books. Regardless of the means to be issued and not small in order to make a change, a set of cadastrian operatives who are the fact that they are the basis for enrollment in this list (a) land books is not enough in themselves. We forgot that the land book also has the other leaves, sheets (b) and sheets (c). In recent decades, the case-law has gone differently in the northwestern part of Croatia in order to settle ownership in land books but even that list (a) introduced so-called ". The construction of land books, based on the effective uptake of real estate properties and these were out-of-book procedures which were faster, more efficient, slightly more insecure. The problem was with these proceedings if he complicated the consequences of it were ownership disputes that lasted for several years. The Southern part, or Dalmatia, dealt with these problems in litigation proceedings, usually in stricter formal procedures, in a way that would normally be used by former owners in the land register or their successors in litigation proceedings, in order to publish such a solution in the national newspapers, which would normally recognise the claim and, then, the judgment would be the basis for the registration of ownership in the land books. Both proceedings had their own disadvantages but they were also one of two ways that was usually done when there was no direct transfer from registered owners to new owners on the basis of purchase, gift contracts, inheritance solutions and similar legal bases. However, such cases were still fewer cases rarer and it is no secret that most of the land books in the Republic of Croatia are unsettled, unsettled, and that it does not correspond to the ownership status of the one in the cadastre. Of course he doesn't have to answer, but there's another problem. Namely, when asked or asked about the Republic of Croatia, the situation in the judiciary is taken care of by several important things, I will not say that others are irrelevant, but they are too important. First of all, it is thought of the situation in the land books and second of all the procedural laws, the ones in the penitentiary, the one in the litigation, and the outsider procedure. But here we are talking today about land books. Why did I say that, the Republic of Slovenia, which has been doing the same job for six, seven years, has done about two-thirds of the work. The assessment is with us and it will be very clear to you from older and more experienced judges, if in Croatia it is now starting with much more investment that it should take ten years to sort out the situation in land books it is not a simple job. It's a very complex, very expensive, very professional job. Namely, your land books are ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, believe me, a little science. And it didn't matter those old country book references often emphasized that they were something special in courts and garters we thought something special. What was to be done in my opinion was, in all cases, to pass a new law on land books, to allocate larger resources, to make more funds for new cadastrian operations, and to provide a solution by way of a litigation out of a litigatory or land-book procedure to solve those other things, which are property rights that are not settled. You probably saw for yourself on your own example what it means to sort out the land-book state, or to sign up as owner even when that catastrian operative was transferred by the application list to list A, so even when this is okay. It's very complicated and very complex. And I'm going to briefly look back at a few things that regulates the law itself. In its opening statement, the minister said that this law would give authority to some 270 authorised ULs, so I would suggest to the promoter that the future does not say that the implementation of the law will not require funds, of course it will be and should be necessary. It's logical that you'll be needed. These people will have to be educated, they'll have to take exams, and surely the budget will have the cost and that should be stated, it's not even difficult, and there's no shame in it. Secondly, I see that the amendment changed the term "print" that is not really Croatian, "form" is Croatian term. But there are several fundamental remarks. Namely, it is true that the land-booked authorised reference or authorised land-book reference does not carry out the supporting procedure. However, secondly, to carry out evidence, to take into account documents, to evaluate documents, and then to make an independent solution. I think he has some powers of the judge, so he doesn't judge, but he has the authority of the judge because he finally signed a decision that acquires or loses the right of ownership. So I think the HSS club also believes that it would have to be a graduate lawyer, that it would have to be an experienced person who has passed an adequate exam. The law itself does not make it clear why the government is proposing to reject submissions. Well, it's perfectly normal to invite the party to, within a certain period that may be possible and a short deadline, call on the party to fulfill or fix the submission. What will be the consequence of that? Of course the party will file a new submission, because it's in her best interest. Namely, grantovnica is arranged only at the request of the party, never on official duty except as regards the law when social property, which has been transformed into state property, was the only way, or only time when, or the only example when the grantovnica was taken care of according to official duty. Well, it is the order of the ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, the parties to make it possible, is not to provide legal assistance to which much and time and resources would be spent to fill or repair their submission within a certain short period of time, because it will result in the fact that in these cases the number of cases will be doubled. The number of objects will not be reduced, but will increase. Only one case will be handled, as rejected, and will then be accepted in the land-booked court by a new case, a new number will be obtained and the statistics of land-booked departments will be increased. That's not good, and I think that's how we propose it intervenes in law. It is a matter of complaint, a question of the nature of the complaint in Article 7 of this Law, and I would ask the Proposer to see if that's okay. Finally, Article 10(1), a little questionable provision, I warn the applicants that the proposals submitted to a land-based court and before the entry into force of this law, so they may be regulated under the existing law, that the handling of such cases is questionable and I suggest that the applicant see Article 10(1). And in the end, I want to repeat that the situation in the garters is really alarming. I want to repeat that the basic goal is not only, it is not just to speed up the procedures and resolve the backlogs but it may be even more important or at least as important as it is and I will only tell you that in the Zagreb area at least 30% of the buildings are not listed in the land books at all and there are no conditions for enrolment. It was trying to get rid of it in most cases because of a lack of, of course, a valid permit. These are buildings made according to construction projects, so they also have a building permit, but unfortunately they do not have a valid permit. There were attempts to get rid of it, to log buildings anyway, but to put that freight sheet, C list as a real burden, even though lack of a valid permit is not a real burden, it's not really a right, but it's one way to solve it. I only took one example. I repeat, the goal is to take care of land books, bring them in line with catastrian operatives with the situation in the catastro with the practical ownership situation, but also, of course, resolve the backlogs and speed up procedures. In this sense, the Croatian Peasants' Party Club will support this law, suggesting that it might be better for this law to go into two readings, and yet it would be more like a new Law on Land Books to be filed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-08-0.u16376	Thank you. Honorable representative William Herman on behalf of the Club Libre. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-08-0.u16377	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. We welcome, of course, the proposal for this Law on Land Books, or amendments and additions, because we think it is really important in this big building we call the Croatian judiciary, not only to make order, but to literally do everything possible to make it from foundation to roof from somewhere they do and to take steps that will really make the Croatian judiciary that can be called such. In that sense, land books are as dry as it sounds, a little boring, actually in that section in such a way that they create an essential foundation for the successful functioning of a total judicial building for a number of reasons. One of these reasons is the security of ownership, the rule of law, and not the opposite of volunteering. In the end, it is simply a matter of equality before the law of all of us, not of what Orwell would say that some can be more equal in front of that law than others. But there's also the next circumstance that looks like the first one. Any serious legal legal traffic of ownership (read real estate) is impossible if land books are not managed neatly or in fact if they do not even exist in the part where they have to exist, so it is a circumstance that directly runs us towards the European Union and makes us competitive not only towards the European Union, of course and towards it. It makes us competitive that we can say that there are opportunities for investment in this country, I don't distinguish between the important ones that will be domestic or foreign, but it will bring about important assumptions that these investments are happening. In this sense, we welcome once again, the ministry's efforts, although we think this is just one detail, and it would be much better if as important as it is, to present a clear plan whose shares will be equally precisely defined to see what is really the insistence in this important area, the area of judicial reform. I think the time has come when common places are used and when simply said we are not satisfied with the judiciary. What does that mean by content? This, for the other part, means what is said, possible inequality before the law because the land books are not arranged, because the traffic of real estate is not possible, read property because it does not result in any competition. What is new in this proposal is the amendment and the addition, and we think that these are correct things and with certain findings that the Proposer is talking about and that we can face the same are the following. So we introduce the prescribed non-prints, but the patterns we understand, so as well as the circumstances that we have to fully agree on, but then the question is what is a step further, it's a non-coordinated situation between land-book offices and cadastrian offices, which is the plan around this second one that's our question. And of course we agree that the courts are not adequate or in buildings where these activities are carried out are not adequate, but also clearly answers about what is being done and how is it meant to be done. And not only in those places that are the most critical Zagreb, Split, Makarska is usually mentioned, I would say that there are places that can become critical tomorrow, or maybe they are quality, so they should do just that to become even more quality, such as Osijek as one court covering a vast area. So we would like to hear the answer to what the plans are about such and similar issues. What is undoubtedly the biggest newspaper in this Proposal is the amendment and addition of this Law to the introduction as the Proposer calls it the Land and Book Reference. He brings solutions says the promoter and thus actually gets the power of trial. Whether it's surrogate, it doesn't matter, because if it's barley coffee or it's real coffee, it's all about coffee, and that's why it's about people entering the area of a single-authority justice building that they haven't had until now with the power of trial because they bring solutions. We are not convinced that this is the solution that needs to be pursued, it will not provide complete legal certainty because it is only in the first layer that can be seen without doubt the good intentions that the promoter has. Namely, what does the proposer offer? A good experience of the Austrian legal order, even in this part of the Austrian legal order as it stands, has a recht pfleger, it is one person who has been specially trained who has, of course, passed certain training for this specially prepared schools or educational processes. You can't invent a rect pphleger, therefore, who, in my court, should make up solutions as a trained person but within the framework of a judicial building because some constitutional legal questions are being raised whether these powers can be trusted to someone who has actually not passed all the proceedings and to get a mandate of a picturesque court-law. So, the rect pfleger isn't born, he's not born through a bill. So you can suggest it but he will not be born by himself, he will have to come as a candidate to be that rect pfleger, in order to be translated, qualified for all insights into what the land book is and then issue a measuring document that will make equality or that other inequality before the law. And so it's really surprising that in one of the articles in the proposed Law, I think it's 109.b you go so far as to do exactly Article 109.b, so you allow yourself to take a special expert exam and not enter what it is as special, give it content, go further have a higher professional preparation of social or geodetic direction, which are impeachable but may still be acceptable, and five years of work experience on the affairs of a land-booked official or medium professional provision of social or geodetic direction or 10 years, let it be said and literally clear. It is inadmissible to lower the level of professional training for this important job. With another note that it actually touches the judicial building because such a person would essentially be given the authority of the trial, whether he is surrogate or directly at this time is completely irrelevant. The proposal is that you give up the rush procedure to access another reading and remove these and other shortcomings. It's possible to react to an amendment as well. We would also warn that the formula that says the proposal that requires that extract, the CK of course does not turn out to be something else, that it is messy. We think it's too broad a term, which could be too broad a term, so if that first mentioned résumé pfleger because you're not going to give birth to a proposal, if he's going to be able to determine that he's messy, be careful, you have two circumstances, and he's not qualified enough, he's going to be able to solve so-called. Indisputable cases, it should also be assessed and then it is still necessary to assess whether this proposal is messy, it simply does not comply with certain legal standards that may occur with the fate of any proposal, so the subject being treated with this proposal in the process is simply not going, it is not good. And this is, let's see this nice smile, out-of-the-way and out-of-the-way, usually that's what we say and we want to have a position while we say it. And this is, of course, a party question. It is a party issue in this respect, because every party will be important to be the rule of law, equality before the law, and also to be respected in this context by human rights, therefore these are party issues, and political issues but should not be divided to create, at the same time, solid conventions, solid agreements in this assembly. What I'm saying is not a conflict with the proposer, it's me thinking based questions that ask for answers why this newly born rect pfleger over one bill, and it's not going to be a rect pfleger, but it's going to be possible for a person with medium expertise to influence through the powers of his trial through those so-called. indisputable objects affect the fates of both people and their property or property, and so can reach a point simply called inequality before the law, it is not worth playing with. Next, we think we need to warn about the circumstances where, as far as I understand it, it's actually being rejected because of the so-called. rationality and economics in the process, help with ignorantness. This is one of the principles of our Constitution, the Constitution which has elements of social justice cannot forget the help of the ignorant, and add these indescribably high legal tariffs. So what happens then? It's going to happen that actually eliminating the help of the ignorant is actually going directly into the midst of what is so high in prices. So to say, that's why the government has no interest, because it's a monopoly, then show interest that the same monopoly can no longer be spoken of. Therefore, simple aid to the ignorant must exist in each part of the procedure. We're also not sure if there's a process acceleration going on, because we actually have three degrees. Now, here's this telegraph and let me say, Mr. President, that one of the solutions would actually be simple, hiring multiple judges, not this search for rect pflegers that are not created through the bill. It is possible to mention the guidelines of the European Union that talk about discharging courts, and it is possible that you are referring to it. It's possible, and that's quite all right. But when it comes to these guidelines, they will never speak, even though they will not allow the powers of the trial to be passed on in surrogate ways. I would say in almost falsified ways, because this raises the legal certainty of individuals in the overall legal order. Finally, I would say quite in the end, that it was impressive to listen to colleagues, literally from the profession in two committees and to the Committee on Justice and the Committee on Law. Very similar remarks to what I said were heard there, so it could be concluded the following way. That the proposer in an important actually clashes with ideas, with suggestions, and even with serious criticism of the profession. It's about teachers, and at this point a professor spoke but as a politician, and then that position can be criticised in many ways. But they're outside board members. And when will it actually stop that situation in our Parliament that it is simply being trained to raise hands and lower hands says no, or just occasionally yes, because it suits us. So, I want to send a message, the waist was almost done this time, so through this proposal... Club LIBRE thinks that this proposal, which in itself because of the idea it stands for, is a good idea, the conclusion of the Croatian judiciary should go to another reading done and thus, for the basic, one of the basic values of our legal order, it is the rule of law in the fullest sense of the word to please it. [[/the speaker doesn't understand.]] Mr. President, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-08-0.u16378	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect alleged, respected representative Emil Tomljanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-08-0.u16379	Mr. President, I'd like to correct the next incorrect assumption very briefly to an esteemed colleague. Namely, he said that a concrete bill rejects the aid or legal aid to ignorant or ignorant parties and said they were practically thrown "in the midst of a lawyer". That's incorrect for two reasons. The first reason is the law prescribed an exact pattern where everyone, just anyone who can read and write, sees what is sought in terms of the land library process, is evident and clear. And the other thing, it's still fortunately and existentially, that is, there are in every municipal court so-called. office days, when judges, fellow judges therefore give free legal aid to all parties. Therefore, there is no indication that this proposal rejects legal aid to ignorant parties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-08-0.u16380	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Agent Herman.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-08-0.u16381	... When you refuse, you simply have nothing to do with the subject. [[speaks later turned on, can't be heard]] If he refuses.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-08-0.u16382	My colleague's not in the business of hurting the Rules of Procedure, and you know it very well.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-08-0.u16383	...I'm sorry, I'm abuser, I know it. But in law, a formula appears.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-08-0.u16384	You can't, pal. I'm supposed to give you a warning, because you've abused the law. You made one claim, your claim was slowed down as factually incorrect.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-08-0.u16385	So I'm saying that my colleague didn't..
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-08-0.u16386	Thank you very much. On behalf of the IDS Club, a respected representative of Doroteta Pesic-Bukovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-08-0.u16387	Dear President, dear colleagues and colleagues. I must say that the intensity of the promoter to solve the accumulated problems in the garters is certainly positive and that it should be welcomed. With this proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Land Books with the Final Proposal, we are introducing ourselves into a set of laws concerning space and construction. And the prerequisite for fixing the situation in space and reducing the possibilities of various malversions is certainly to fix the situation in land books. In terms of solving old cases, we have heard the number and update of the present and future ones. In our view, apart from this legal solution, the most important consideration should be given to other segments, i.e. to improve the material conditions for working in grantshops, i.e. to provide adequate space for sufficient information equipment, and to provide a sufficient number of employees in land and book departments of courts. Because in our opinion what has been done so far has not been done enough. Another major problem that is not covered by this bill and certainly the harmonisation between cadastrian and grant books, since in many cases there is certainly a discrepancy of data, these parties have really big problems. And we see that the Ministry has also found in its assessment that courts have such problems. But through legislation, you can't see how these problems could be solved. Therefore, the argument also that this law does not require additional resources in our opinion does not stand, because the salaries of the referencing officers' and court workers' salaries, which means that the higher employment of land-booked references will not be, or if they are, they will mean that these current ones will be reduced wages and perhaps bring some new ones. In our opinion, the current number of reference land-books is not enough, especially now when an electronic book is being introduced. And besides the electronic book, it has to be run, introduced manually into the books. And in our opinion, only electronic books should be kept. As far as Article 1 of this Act is concerned, nothing in our opinion is obtained, it may sound good to the media, because the situation that has so far been identical to the proposal, i.e. the land-booked references have brought solutions so far, only the ZK trainees could not bring the ZK solution to one point. As far as Article 2 is concerned, we consider the proposal equally unnecessary because there have been patterns so far. These changes, of course, will also cause a certain cost. We support this new change if it is in the function of perhaps some new Internetisation to facilitate citizens' communication with the land-booking department. As regards Articles 3 and 4, we must be honest and say that for the sake of efficiency, it is good that Articles 3 and 4 are deleted. Our expectations of these amendments of the law were much greater I must admit because working in garters in all segments is difficult. We also know, we've already heard today that in most cases land-book references are women. We have to say that they're in bad places, that the books are inadequately kept. We had a case a few years ago when the abbey gruntovnica burned where part of the books were also burned and the case was in Crikvenica, etc. So, you have to take care of the way these books are kept without talking about how difficult these books are and how those women have to lift these books to a certain height. It means that substantial resources should still be invested in improving working conditions as well as in keeping documents. These changes and additions to the IDS we see only as good intentions in trying to solve the problem because these are indeed fire measures and that, apart from the legislation, they will have to really provide financial and material technical conditions. We will support this proposal to yet take one step forward in solving the accumulated problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-08-0.u16388	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the respected representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-08-0.u16389	The esteemed colleague said that the same situation was also in Article 1 of the applicable law and in the proposal. It's not the same situation because he used to be a substitute and the difference between the tenants and the employees is big and now the concept of an authorised land-book reference is being introduced. The manager does the tasks that are of a technical nature and the clerk does the tasks that are in the function of performing the tasks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-08-0.u16390	On behalf of the SDSS Club, Honorable Representative Ratko Gajica.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-08-0.u16391	Mr. President, representatives of the ministry, colleagues and colleagues! I understand the reasons why this change is proposed and I see them in that the situation in the land books is first in line with the state of nature and often in contrast to the state of nature, and that means that this is the way the destruction of life happens. The second reason is if I have good information and I'm afraid even worse than what I'm going to say is the submissions in the land-books departments relating to the resolution, so the re-injections are now being solved by those who are submitted in 2002. It is very likely that in some environments and in some courts the situation is even worse. I'm not prone to accuse those officers of being lazy, no matter what we can get someone out, so he's guilty because he's lazy. And I think that harmonising this situation is actually an undertaking that needs to be done. This bill proposes or moves to be proposed by the distribution of powers. Something's going to happen to me, but I'd like to not put too much optimism into it if that's how we solved the problem. In the land-book department, I'm going to say something that seems to me to be a diagnosis. In the land-book department of land books it's actually mining work, it's about data that's 100 years old, it's about data that in some courts have mostly the facts of enrolment between the two world wars and you can't just fix it and because my colleagues here say before me enrolment in land books are the relevant thing and compared to some other records they weigh, they're deciding. And since it's in some way strictly formalistic, strictly formal work and assignment and enrolment, then you can't do it without valid reasons to change it. On the other hand, the changes in land books are subject to strict procedures that we must adhere to. Now, let's get back to what the Proposer is proposing. The promoter says we're going to distribute the powers or in a way that we're going to transfer from a judge to a clerk or we're going to hire some new officials to speed up this job. It's too small a fund of people and it seems to me too small a number of hours of work, too small a working capacity to be able to change that into important. Here I think my colleague Ivas and others were saying that we are actually verifying the situation that we have, and that means we and now we have people doing the job as it is called until we make a solution. And now we have it. Now we're going to get and install someone who can bring a solution instead of a judge. It'll probably speed up the whole thing, but we'll still have the fact that a lot of people or more people are going to do the same job, and I'm not saying it because now I'm disabling the idea of why this change is being made, rather than because we're not putting too much optimism into this. And I'm going to say right now, I'm going to raise my hand to this law because at least he's making a move, but I'm warning you of the next thing. There's no big movement, there's no undertaking as I called it here until the data is inserted into the machine and there's actually a problem. I've heard that the money that is set for this is probably spent or directed to larger courts, it's probably right, but a large number of courts are technologically at a level that can't respond to these tasks, and I'm guessing these changes won't achieve what we'd like. So I say, this is a small shift and I admit it but there must be a shift in the technology of work and only then will the task that must be done by declaring in the reform of the judiciary and by the state of the land and book departments as we have today be carried out. Of course, here, colleagues talked about what a shame it is when you have the difference between the state of nature and the state of records. I'll warn you here, this morning Mrs. Secretary said the idea was or we'd like to coordinate the situation in the catastro with what's the situation in the land. I'll warn one thing that already produces danger. I haven't done enough research on where it came from, but the State Geodetic Administration has ordered the Catastrian offices to review their records and ultimately comply with the state of the land books. Of course, it's a legitimate task because it's in the law. But the catastrian record is largely consistent with what is in nature and with what is in life. And now, I've been told in person by some people from the catastra, we're in trouble now, we have to change our records in a way that we're going to download the owner, the name and name of the owner who owns the house and yard and we're going to have to, we're going to have to... Rescribe on, say, state property to the municipality or to the Republic of Croatia or to a private person because it says so, says the land book. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's an extraordinary destruction of life that is formally based on the fact in the land book. But it's extremely against the state of nature and the real state of life and the real situation of life. I've tried a little bit of information on how it can be done, how the damage can be prevented. I guess I'll have to go to the State Geodetic Authority. Some people at the Justice Department were surprised that there was such a thing, I assure you, in nature and downstairs there is a lot. Now, that's why, I'm closing in the next way. I admit this as a shift, and I'm going to raise my hand because it's a step forward. But I'm not optimistic that this will bring some kind of special result. Because we're going to get a few more people back here and there and again the same technology of work. There is no movement unless in land-based book departments the technology of work is completely changed in a modern way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-08-0.u16392	Thank you. Dear Representative Dragutin Lesar, on behalf of the HNS Club and the PGS.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-08-0.u16393	Thank you very much, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, the importance of the grantovnica for both citizens, entrepreneurs, investors is enormous, especially in the back of several years when it is a matter of proof of ownership at the time of purchase and exit of all necessary papers, not only a question of private property but also a possible obstacle to investing and entering foreign capital in Croatia. We are often warned that the situation in the grants, in the grant books and in the cataster is such that many investors are afraid to enter that risk because there have been cases and examples that even the purchase transaction has been completed in order to find out later that missing or incorrect property data has been disputed and the rightful verdict has been taken away. So, all of us are giving us serious objections and certainly the examples that we have heard here today from the state of two courts and when cases are solved for several months or years is the ideal position for corruption either in large, small and often the only way to solve a personal problem ends with bribery. In part, citizens also contribute because of the lack of knowledge of regulations and procedures, whether it is a desert debate, so an inheritance, a sale where they hardly or rarely decide to settle these ownership relations, and therefore we have situations where people who have been deceased for 50, 60 or more years are enrolled in grant books. And since the legal services are getting more expensive, unfortunately, an even smaller number of poor citizens will decide to handle these things. To regulate relations and this problem, of course, it is important that the procedural discipline of those who carry out this job is extremely responsible, the transparency of the data that is in this sector, at this point, we do not even have the responsibility to do our job. I have been offered a debate on the availability of staff that would work on such proposed amendments to the law or the current regulation, so the question of which programs we educate people in schools and colleges is that, in relation to the number of students who enter or end up with such key jobs, we always find that we do not have sufficient numbers of educated and trained young people. So obviously this subject, too, should at least be interested in those who establish and enter policies as well as education and university programmes because it would be good to finally start training people for those professions and with those skills that we need like this. What is the intention of the Proposer of this Law, what, or what experience, was it when he proposed such a newspaper on the running of a grantine or enrolment in land books? Data are two examples of courts in Split and Rijeka in the context of a large number of cases of long-standing non-solving. Whether in Croatia there are opposite examples of these two who were presented by the Minister. Whether by the same rules, by the same law, with similar or even smaller numbers of land-based library judges or with spatial conditions far worse than these two examples exist somewhere in Croatia and courts where these problems are not available. It's about matter that's really professional, I've asked for the help of those who do it. So let's just have two examples. I hope the second of great help will also be to the legislators. Emergency cases at the municipality court in Čakovec are considered mortgages and financing, citizens' loans, legal persons, are resolved within 3 days or within 3 days the party may raise a solution or a copy or be delivered by mail. If the party considers that the period of three days is too long, it shall be indicated that it shall immediately make a reasoned request for which their subject should be immediately taken into account. And if the land-based book judge finds a valid reason, and that the application is a set-up case immediately puts the matter in order and settles until the end of the working day. Non-emergency items, therefore, shall be dealt with regularly within 5 working days. I read this, so the entire statute of condition that I got from the official person. And they told me to make sure that the deadlines that were in the law were too long. Unjustified long deadlines are given because these procedures and cases can therefore be solved up to 5 working days. The second proposal from the Law introduces a form, which is submitted by the party when the application is submitted. The same court in Čakovec has had an internal printing press that every party that comes to the garnery for years and let me say just one detail from it. If the party personally delivers an item in the garland with a request for registration there is a note: “The party is aware that the solution”, if the request is completed “can be raised in the mail office of the land-booking department, room 6 days” and the official enters the date “between 9 and 11 hours”. So any party that submits the request gets this, exact date, room number and now when they will get both a solution and a land-book excerpt. This also enabled the supervision and control of the work of each judge in respecting the deadlines given to the party at the time of receipt of the case. As far as the text of the law is concerned, we welcome the efforts to make sure that the number of authorised people who are going to do these jobs, not wanting to make amendments, because in the amendments, we usually all refuse to do so, I take the opportunity to have representatives present, so I ask them to think that the Government itself submits amendments in the next direction. The responsibility of the referent under this new bill for his part of the job is not at all regulated. There is a provision that the President of the Court may withdraw the case once and assign the other referent. There are no cases or conditions described, options for confiscation, and in particular the word “can” is very elastic which most often ends in not doing so. Therefore, I propose that the subject must be taken away from one reference and assigned to another unless the first reference officer has resolved the subject within the time limit prescribed. So if the deadline is up today, the case isn't resolved and the president of the court has to take the case away once and assign it to the other. This would lead to the possibility and clarity of the provisions and the possibility of the President of the Court to intervene in the event of a delay in the deadlines. The second proposal is that the number of cases taken or unabated be the criterion for determining the liability or promotion in the business or the profession with the need to prescribe in the procedural procedure and the number of cases withdrawn is the condition for the loss of the licence. Namely, if we introduce licensed officials, the referents acquire the license, and I think this is an ideal position for the number of cases taken away by the President of the Court to be a criterion for punishing but also for unrequited objects for rewarding, and within the time limit, that is, in the number prescribed either by this Act or by the procuring officer and the withdrawal of the licence, because otherwise we will be in a situation that those who do not do their job will not have the possibility of losing their license just because we have failed to regulate it at the moment. The third concrete proposal, which is of great importance to me, is the process of making an appeal in Article 7, paragraph 3, which states that the appeal may be lodged if the appeal procedure has been positively resolved, a special appeal, but the possibility of making specific complaints is not provided for if the appeal is rejected in the first instance. And they ask land-book judges why this bill does not allow a special appeal to be filed even in cases where the first appeal was rejected because they claim or warn that this would reduce the number of cases at the second stage, and allow as many cases as possible to be resolved within the Municipal Court. So these three cases, three proposals were submitted by people I can and I have to trust because they've been working on this procedure for years, who have proven by their work that they know how to do it, so I'm asking them to take themselves seriously. We will support this Bill of Law proposal in the hope and faith that the number of new authorised referencings thus obtained, it is around 280 who will at least halve the number of pending cases in the next at least two calendar years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-08-0.u16394	Thank you. Dear Representative Ivan Chehok on behalf of the HSLS and DC Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-08-0.u16395	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, the state of affairs is really alarming. On the one hand, citizens feel legal uncertainty in real estate and ownership. On the other hand, the situation in land books is unsettled and total legal traffic is often chaotic. The state is alarming but it has a Latin proverb: “Testa lenta!”. Hurry slowly. And maybe we don't have that much time that we really need to rush headlessly and that we should make decisions that we may not have thought enough and that we don't know in advance, we're not sure if it's going to have the kind of effect we want. It is absolutely certain that the effectiveness has not always been achieved or cannot be achieved in this way by making decisions, by trying to replace what is missing by administrative means. And although we will support the law as an attempt to reach such an alarming state and to do something in land books, it seems to us that there should be much more careful than the proposings themselves and perhaps today, in a desire to speed up certain public services and their powers, therefore, than we ourselves wish it would happen. It is certain that, this is what the colleagues were talking about here that at a time when we have over 300 thousand unsolved land-book items and when about, I say about because we do not have accurate data, the data in the cadstar records and land-books differ in over 50% and when we have approximately 18 million cadastrian particles in the Republic of Croatia and, unfortunately, when most of these 18 million are not yet arranged, there are no cadastrian or geodetic measurements, it is certain that we have to do something like the legislative body. However, the effectiveness of public services may be more beneficial in this way to think coldly and soberly and to pass laws that will have effects than by passing laws that we are not sure we will be able to implement in advance. Therefore, by accepting this, I would like to give caution to the motionors and advise the possibility of implementing this Act, first and foremost, when it is finally passed by sublegal acts to approach, with greater seriousness, accountability and caution, the adoption of these sublegal acts. And as for the conditions that will have to be laid down by the country's book reference and the forms that will have to be quieted down. It is certain that the situation in land books prior to all is endangering the security of law, endangering the security of ownership, in some ways making either inefficient public service or making it chaotic and unsettled. And then, unfortunately, in a negative way, it contributes both faster and more effectively to legal traffic, but most importantly, at this point in Croatia, it actually endangers entrepreneurial freedoms and threatens investment security. I'll tell you just one example, when I negotiated in a far-off overseas country about investing in Varazdin and when we were discussing the land that would be a investment plot and when we didn't know the exact measure of that land, so we couldn't even think about what the surface of that land was, or what the opposite side we were negotiating with, they told us, so today it's not a difficulty you can go through the Internet to your grantshop and look at exactly and tell us exactly how much the surface of that land is. Because it's possible in that country it's possible in Austria, so someone said it already today, possibly in Slovenia. Unfortunately, we as parliamentary representatives can't do this today, and it would be logical that over a few years we can get the leaders on the laptop into the killing of any grantovnica, in any catastran in the Republic of Croatia, to get immediately all ownership information, so that we can know whether we can expect as parties in legal traffic that we will achieve this legal traffic or not. Unfortunately, that's not possible in us. And unfortunately, all the governments so far, and all the ministries have wasted their time, and we haven't done anything, so what we're discussing today is ladies and gentlemen in my opinion are a little bit incomprehensible. If the state knows that it needs educated and it needs specialized personnel land-based book refrents, and that in some subsequent short or medium term, it may take 1000 or 1500 to ask you what to prevent us from enrolling these years in law school or in some other college several directions, therefore, those students who are about to be educated strictly specialist in land-based book refrents. That's how all the countries do it today in the world, we used to, when we introduced financial police, or we started with a special study, it seems to me, within the framework of a law school that was supposed to be strictly specialized in exactly the kind of staff we needed. Which prevents us from enrolling in people who will be educated only for land-based book references at the end of the month. It's just, I don't want to say that that's what they're going to call themselves, that study, but their specialist education is going to be about that. Or if that's possible if it's too late why don't we enroll them in an extraordinary study. It seems much more acceptable to me than to give us the chance that practically everyone who has a high school of someone's social orientation may be unknowingly speaking, I used to end up in that late Shuvar at school something called indo activity, therefore, such a middle-aged cook will practically make it possible. Because it's some kind of social orientation, that I, who've never listened to a single bill of law or a college of law, can do these jobs, if I get the terms, if I get the necessary certificates. I think it's unserious, it shows not only the state of the land books, it shows the state of our legal profession, but it shows the state of which we know the complete disorientation of the Croatian education system. Instead of thinking about writing down those students who are going to be educated just for these kinds of jobs, we're thinking about how we're going to tell the current frames would be my contortional attraction, or attract them to do something else. And then there's really a question that my colleague was talking about, whether it's going to be people who'll be educated enough for very demanding jobs. A colleague, Herman, mentioned Austria. Well, ladies and gentlemen, we are fortunate to have been a majority of Croatia's work in Austria. If we weren't a legal part of the Austro-Hungarian and political part of the Austro-Hungarian we wouldn't even have these books that we have today. But the Austrians appreciated the interest of the figurines, it was appreciated the interest of the judge, but it was equally appreciated by the interest of a land-based book clerk. That was, by the way, one of the most honored occupations in that country. We will practically, the measure that we do not speak equally, we will practically enable all those who will be able to get cetificates working on these jobs which are if for one country for their and the citizens of that country it is important that we have arranged parent books, then what is for the citizenship of the parent book is for the total economic traffic in one country the land library. Therefore, we need to think about it, I ask the promoters, to consider how to reach this lack of sufficient number of qualified and highly trained persons who will work on such jobs. Equally, I think we should talk about what our colleague Lesar is talking about, and gentlemen are not the same in all parts of Croatia. And it is regrettable that we know that the situation is alarming in Zagareb, Split and some other environments, and that we are practically talking gives the situation in Croatia alarming. In Varazdin, for example, as in Čakovec land books are less arranged, but I also want to say that, they repeat because the city has been helping and still helps. And you have local self-government who wants to go hand-in-hand to courts that help courts, and as far as protsors and equipment are concerned, and as far as buying what the courts need. You have again regretted local environments in which you prefer to buy departments for members of the headship, as we seem in Split but let's say they do less or do nothing for land books or for offices of land library or courts. It's the same with the geodetic measurement. We each year eu budget, for example, through the varginal separation of funds for geodetic measurement, entered a project with a jet bank. That's what some middles do, some don't do at all. It is therefore also an area or perhaps, above all, the area in which the synergy effect of good cooperation between local self-government and the state must be obtained. And I would like to be in the position of the legislator to finally establish the geodetic state, to invest in catastrases, to help their courts, land to book offices. YES, and in such a way, of course, we can, as soon as possible, compensate for these shortcomings that we are talking about today. Without that, without therefore good cooperation between local self-government and the state without sufficient measure or effort to really educate the experts we will need, who will become land-based book referencearies and good intentions of this law, I fear they will not bear fruit.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-08-0.u16396	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations by the esteemed representative William Herman.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-08-0.u16397	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. It was alleged that colleagues of Czechoka, lucky for Croatia that we were under Austria. That's my way, or Austro-Hungarian. I think it was told to Austria. That's an incorrect quote. It can't be luck, I wouldn't be in those categories of happiness and accident. It's just that for any country that seeks to be sovereign, it's not good that any form of colonization, octrophe, anything else happens. Thank you very much and thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-08-0.u16398	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Here you go, breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-08-0.u16399	Mr. President, classmate William Herman hurt Article 209 because I didn't say what he said but it was his free interpretation in which he naturally went the wrong way, not the main way. So I'm not lucky for us that we were, but that it's lucky for the land books that we left behind from Austria.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-08-0.u16400	Dear Representative Ivo Josipovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-08-0.u16401	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. The general assessment that the state of land books is one of the most important and major problems in the regulation of the legal system and the development of the economy in the Republic of Croatia, and therefore the legislative proposal that comes is to welcome from the point of view of goodwill and ambition to do something about it. But I personally must admit I do not believe that the declared goal will be to achieve the measures proposed, and on the other hand, unfortunately, I must say that the proposal, as it is meant to be, represents one quite for my taste sadly suited... rights and legal professions and I will try to explain it to you. First of all, the whole concept and the statistics of the reports that we have each year are based on or based on the assessment that ZK objects are something light, something slow, something that can only be solved. That's just not true. The right of the ZK is one of the rights that has its logic, its internal logic, its problems and which unfortunately have been wrongly overly located in administrative, according to administrative officials, and some of the presidents of the courts have only formally signed them since the culprits have not actually had enough knowledge and practice. That is probably why there have been many sad cases of abuse in land books when some data were written that were not legally and just. Such examples are sufficient, not to be reminded of. Instead of how we do so often, the problem of not implementing a solid law is solved by maximum insistence on its implementation, we find that laws are not implemented, so we change them so that after a while we can re-establish that they are not being implemented. What I personally don't like and where I see certain... legal professions is the fact that, starting with the wrong claim that ZK objects are some mere records, those colleagues and colleagues are not, enrolments have a constitutional significance and enrolment is acquired and lost property. So it's about regulating one of the fundamental rights protected by the Constitution. We ease objects, we place the ZK items in the jurisdiction of the needy or semi-edited staff with some paradoxical solutions by which someone who has completed the high preparation of the social direction, for example, was not an associate in culture, so after that he has done something else or geodetic I don't know what geodesy has in particular with the right because land-book is the right and not the technique of measurement, he couldn't do that job, and someone who's finished high school for example. The mathematical high school and then enrolled in law and graduated law could not gain this status. It's something that's just a paradox. Furthermore, these officials who, the referents will receive quasi-judicial powers and even status and certain independence and certain continuity of service after five years which I think is absolutely unacceptable for such items. The legislator calls for Austrian practice, and how often this is the case with the proposal of domestic law, which is called for by Austrian law, seems to be superficially and with incorrect data. My colleagues and colleagues to introduce resfleggers in Austria who, by the way, have been highly educated not in the way that this law provides, but through one law prescribed strict and long-term education procedures, colleagues and colleagues of Austrians have changed and completed their Constitution. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. They have complemented and changed their constitution to enable special education resflegers, not as poor as they are expected to do here, to do these things. Likewise, when they look at the powers of these resfleggers, they are, of course, derived from their education and position governed by the Constitution and federal law and no comparison of these officials in Austria and ours as predicted, I find it inappropriate. Of course it would be possible to find some more such illogicalness, the ambition to shorten the duration of the proceedings seems to me not to go along with introducing another degree in decision-making, but here is why a little of my criticism and abject, I strongly support some of the changes that relate, for example, to eradicating Articles 105 and 107. In doing so, I only warn in a way that the question is whether it is in the ministry's intelligence at all or whether the case law will have to consider it, that unfortunately, and today the law is not respected in a way that registration courts ask for documentation that does not require legislation, from various local permits or I do not know what else to the various documents that the law simply does not require, and there it will need to do a strict education to be, because the consequences are very serious. You know when he rejects you, because apparently you don't have all the documents and you lose your order of the championship, then you have a really serious life problem. I personally experience so far shows that going with the amendments does not have any particular purpose even when they are truly professional and extremely unpolitical, so I would like to wish if the Proposer had considered some more solutions, I have corrected this law, and I think it would be appropriate, in fact, to stem from the debate and on the Committee on Justice where prominent experts have made more or less of the same remarks, to consider that this law is adopted in two readings. It's final. I support measures that speed up the process and in the ICJ cases, and I support the expansion of the powers of the ICB of officials but not in this way that seems even borderline from the position of constitutionality. Just imagine the problems that would happen if, for some time, the Constitutional Court eventually abolished such a solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-08-0.u16402	Honorable representative Miroslav Korenika.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-08-0.u16403	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues, Madam Secretary of State. The fact is that state books are both started and designed to protect private property and that it should be the state that guarantees the truthfulness of the data. I am afraid of what we have heard today that such a public document still does not guarantee the truthfulness of the data, because we still have whole islands, parts of cities that are not listed in land books and that is one of the main stone interferences that cannot be supported by economic reforms in the Republic of Croatia. I think, and I personally expected that the amendment of this law would give some or at least final deadlines to sign up for property that was made by conversion and privatisation, that we finally know in Croatia as a public correction, who are indeed the owners of certain properties and everything else. It is likely that deadlines should be set in which some sales contracts for apartments and all others should be implemented because we ourselves know that there are some contracts that are in various different ways about how to pay taxes and everything else has simply not been entered in land books. I have to say that I have an example where just unauthorized work in the Varazdin land-booking department has taken place in a relatively large affair, I'm going to expose it without mentioning the name, it's been done in the 1990s on state land, state agricultural land which is illegal, unlawfully replaced with other agricultural land, but where miracles, a high official and today the HDZ has carried out an illegal replacement of agricultural land that has become construction land and is worth 50 times more than it was worth back then. The fact that the state's attorney's office and all the others and the police who conducted the investigation, no one was guilty, ate the donkey wolf, that the judge in the land-booked department, with the help of an officer, was likely to have made an enrolment on the basis of illegal and unlicensed documents, did not relieve anyone of responsibility. And that's why I'm asking where is in this law and responsibility for those who are given the opportunity to make something that's land-booked references and judges for all the failures they're about to make. Unfortunately, there's no such thing here. I have to say that not taking incomplete reports leads to the fact that we'll probably have a smaller number of pending cases. However, everyone here argues that the state of land books is bad in the Republic of Croatia I fear that this will make it even worse. I'm asking the same question and I'd like to get an explanation. The Republic of Croatia has used the funds of the cards program to solve a part of the land books, whether at least one can guarantee that the data is true and accurate. And I would ask a question that might be a good thing to say right now, because probably someone has a vision of how they're going to get rid of it, I said that there are certain islands, such as Suska, where the owners of individual properties are scattered around the world. Some have also died, this is usually a very common case in the Republic of Croatia, I am interested in foreign investment due to domestic investment, as this government and this Ministry thinks to solve this problem because there is no good investment. Often all the risks go to real estate buyers. It seems to me that untrue data in land books still needs to be far greater responsibility for the state, but there is nothing about it right now. Therefore, if we want to have a competition in the Republic of Croatia, it is certain that we should go to the construction of land books. However, I am afraid this is with things that my colleague Josipovic said that are likely to end up in the Constitutional Court is not the best way. In doing so, I can immediately say that under these conditions when there is no end to the guarantee of the state to guarantee the truthfulness of the data in books I am not quite ready to support this Law because I think it would be more correct to go on making a whole new law rather than to make any major change to these changes that I consider more cosmetic thoughts. And in the end, I don't want to be too polluted with the mayor of Varazdin, but it seems to me that as mayor, he acts incorrectly towards local self-government when he asks local self-government to prescribe a legal obligation to pay geodetic measurements, i.e. co-finance the collection of books without providing additional funds for local self-government in the state budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-08-0.u16404	Replica. Who has the correction of an incorrect quote? Dear Representative Ivan Chehok corrects the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-08-0.u16405	Mr. President, my esteemed fellow citizen, Mr. Korenika, has misinterpreted, I have said that I propose that the legislators consider how local self-government will need to make geodetic measurements, I did not say that this would be their obligation and that they should not be given other sources of income.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-08-0.u16406	And the replica, the esteemed representative of Plesko.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-08-0.u16407	Dear Mr. President, in his statement on a senior member of the Croatian Democratic Community, he has practically intervened in the judgmental authority of the Republic of Croatia because in his speech on a senior official of the Croatian Democratic Community he has prejudged something that is practically impossible to rejuvenate and that is, in relation to the court's decision whether someone has done something besides the court rules, in addition to the legal rules, because I believe that such things should not be done here in the Croatian Parliament to prejudge decisions of the courts, to prejudge the decisions of those who make the possibility and in those land-booked institutions.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-08-0.u16408	The reply to the replica, the honourable representative of the Korenika, please be my guest.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-08-0.u16409	I did not mention a respected colleague's name or name, but I must say immediately very precisely and clearly, this High House passed a law that allowed all agricultural land to be replaced by real estate means replacing land between a company that had the management of such a country and a private person, a natural person was not allowed without a government decision or at that time of public defendership, it was clear to everyone. However, it was done you wanted to admit it or not and imagine you wonders it was done in a way that this land was in a building zone, if it was already meant to belong to someone in that way it could have been the only city of Varazdin and not that a natural person benefited. In this case, the problem is that in the court it takes an extremely long time, it can go out of date, and the Republic of Croatia or the town of Varazdin will eventually run out of land and no money, if it's fair to you and if I prejudged the verdict, then let it go to your soul. Nor did I mention the name, I said the appearance as a phenomenon, because it hurts you that it's the HDZ official that's already your problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-08-0.u16410	Honorable representative of Alenka Kosisa Chichin-Shain. She's gone. Dear Representative Marko Širac.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-08-0.u16411	Mr. President, colleagues and fellow MPs, the Ministry of Representatives. Let me tell you about this Law, for me it is one but only one and only one and first attempt to initiate the procedure of setting up land-book conditions in our land-book offices and land-books. We must all be realistic together and know that the record of land ownership and all that is connected to the country leads to land books created on the geodetic background that was made between 1880 and 1914. Thus, by that time in 1914, certain land-book offices that were then managed by municipal courts were identified conditions that did not correspond to the facts on the ground and started measurements and procedures so-called. Reambulation and harmonisation of catasters and land books. Over the next 20 years from 1918 to 945 on the present territory of the Republic of Croatia, no measurements and no land books have been updated or repaired. And you know that in 45 years property actually lost its legal status, and for the truth it became dead capital. During the 1980s, measurements began and a new measurement was made to about 30% of the Republic of Croatia, and somewhere in the next 40% of the revision measured a real situation on the ground with the labs with the cadastrian elaborats, but that does not mean that the labs and records are fully consistent with the land books. So it's only somewhere in my grade that about 50% of the cadastrian state corresponds to the land books, or corresponds to the actual factical state of ownership. As a result, in 1999, we developed a programme proposed by the geodetic administration to the previous government in 2000. and for two years, the programme was under discussion for its implementation in 2002. I have to say here that I am a very good expert in issues and making new records of the cadastrian frameworks and their compliance with the land book, and that now a 5-year programme is under way that doesn't go well. He's late. And he only works for 6% of the territory of the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, 94% of the territory of the Republic of Croatia will remain in the same state for the next 10 or 15 years if we do not accept the next stages of settlement through the programmes for the next 5, 10 or 15 years. For the truth, the facts that the promoter has stated are that our land-based library offices, which are within the municipal courts, are unarmed, whoever was in the land-book, who had ties with it, and I have been authorised for over 10 years by a court-son and worked on the realisation and implementation of many cases on my part, professionally, that there are really difficult accommodation problems, there is no real space and no equipment. Computerization itself won't bring anything. Because if you put bad data into modern data processing, you'll still have bad results like we've had in the land book so far. So copying bad Earth books into modern records isn't going to achieve results without the realisation of the program, the harmonisations I was talking about, which must follow for the next 5 and 10 years. In my opinion, this is a good attempt for the truth to transfer powers to qualified people. I also believe that our ministry should consider whether these powers should be passed on to people with medium professional training. But that we have to build and create educated people who are able to work in land books and of course these people can be, but they don't have to be judges, but they have to be trained for this work, in this respect I absolutely support that this is the solution to this law. Here in the debate, one of his colleagues pointed out that it was not important to reject objects, i.e. to reject items in the country’s book process. I think that also makes a significant contribution to speeding up the land-book procedure in land-booked courts for one simple reason, which is, at the moment you accept the solving of a case that is messy or incomplete, you stop the complete procedure of all those implementations proposed by other parties or owners for implementation in the land-book. Thus, it is a good way to get rid of and speed up the process in the land book. And finally, to conclude, I support the adoption of the law, once again, to note that it would be useful to consider whether to rule out medium professional equipment from the possibility of obtaining the powers you provide for under this law. Mr. Vice President, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-08-0.u16412	Thank you. The word has an esteemed representative Drazen Bošnjaković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-08-0.u16413	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. We have before us a Law that has a basic goal of increasing efficiency in solving the land-based book affairs of our courts. What is our situation today, I don't think we should spend much of our words on this, because indeed our citizens know it best, especially those who have had the opportunity to actually or better say don't face the demands of municipal courts to register property rights or other things, real property rights, and they actually have seen for themselves how long these procedures last. The duration of these procedures really makes it impossible for them to exercise their constitutional rights to use real estate as owners and to exercise all their ownership rights. And in any case, we are in a situation today that we really need to do something in this segment, because at the end and our path towards the European Union is marked that this is one of the very important issues that we have to solve and one very important problem that stands in our way. And so this law, I think, offers certain solutions that will lead to more efficiency and speed up these procedures. In any case, I think that this solution to land-based library references that power to solve and sign solutions to earth-based library matters is good, because today, even today, as it was here, words take action and water and procedures, and in fact only in most cases judges sign them. And apparently our judges are overwhelmed by a large number of cases, and that's why there's a good part of it waiting. It is also a good suggestion to make a pattern about a proposal to register a real right and that it contains exactly what it needs to be, what the transitions should be, and that this will actually lead to more orderly submissions and the citizens themselves will, in fact, be in the process of proposing what they need to submit and how it should be formulated, and not like so far someone is doing a proposal for enrollment in this way, someone else comes back to the conclusion that it will be complemented and I think we will avoid such things. In any case, here the question was also expressed whether this new authority given to judges of municipal courts to solve and they, by constant appeal, would make certain solutions and decisions that would alter or change the decision made by the land-book referencer whether it would slow down the processes. I think, of course, we'll see it best in practice but in my opinion, it won't because a good part of those cases on which the appeal will be filed so the judge now has the opportunity to change the decision of the ZK referent directly and immediately by appeal if he thinks it is wrong and if he correctly and correctly changes it then it will not end up in court even though, of course, against that solution is allowed a special appeal. I think that this one cassation that exists in the Law on Administrative Procedure, which is faster, more elastic than the Law on Procedural Procedure, I think we'll still contribute to the speed and this power that, of course, second-degree courts are holding back will lead to something that really can't go through that shouldn't, so I think this law offers really good solutions. These objections to the nomotechnical nature that are being said here, I think especially of the Committee on Justice and I point out that in the good part they stand. Indeed, in the first article, the law needs to be cleaned up a little, and that question should actually be evened out by an official or a referent, especially in the case of rejection and rejection. I really think that all we need to do is leave it to the Institute to reject a messy submission and a messy proposal, and that rejection should be left because it is indeed a decision that decides on the scale of things. I don't think there's any need to repeat what other colleagues have said, but there's also how much we see in the debate whether people are professional enough or not, whether they pass it on to the referencing or leave it to the judges. I think what law offers is good actually. It is a lot of strict criteria where the requirement for high-preparation is prescribed that man has practice means for this higher preparation in solving ZK cases of five years and for medium preparation to be ten years old. I think it's about people who really know the problem here, and ever since they go through the necessary education, I don't think we should be afraid of that problem to have some intricacies. I will support this law and I believe that it is good, that it is another step forward in solving the problem of justice which is indeed present and, as we see, at the beginning of the term of office, we have passed amendments to the Law on regular courts and I am particularly glad to see that this Law on Regular Courts is in force because there is indeed already a deployment of those cases from the county courts that are overrun by county courts that have fewer cases. That's a good step forward. This law only continues such good practice, and I believe that if the ministry continues such a policy, if it continues with such laws, we can really believe that there is hope that the problem of the judiciary will eventually be resolved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-08-0.u16414	Thank you. It's time for the honourable representative of Velimir Pleša.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-08-0.u16415	Dear Mr. Vice President, the honorary representatives of the ministry! The settlement of the situation in the judiciary, especially in the garter or land books, is one of the obligations made by the Croatian State by membership for the European Union. On this side rejoices the fact of every step so however small he may be in this direction and I will also in my personal name support the adoption of such amendments and additions to this law but only as a sign of the desire for this improvement to actually happen. In the light of this law, the well-proposer notes that the current application of the Law on Land Books has shown, and now lists that the proceedings are long, that the number of land-books has increased significantly, that largely the non-corresponded land-booked catastra situation is present, etc., etc. And for these reasons, it proposes that this amendment be made to the amendments to this law, and this is intended to be achieved and, of all the reasons that have shown that there should be a change in this law only one small, really small step, which is the issue of the introduction of these new land-booked references, or by giving them other powers, and then the submission of proposals in land-booked items of special forms, by eradicating the provisions on the need to teach parties and the different regulation of the rights of appeal. I believe that the debate has already made it clear that even under the provisions of this law, there are environments especially in Čakovec, Varazdin, generally throughout north-west Croatia, but I will limit myself a little to Čakovec where it is quite clear that only one work and engagement and local administrations and self-government and, above all, people working in these land-book items in the grantovnica could be speeded up by this process and obtaining land-booked excerpts, i.e. that it is not all as black as in these provisions or explanations could be concluded. But perhaps it is necessary to give the promoter to think about the fact that he is likely to face further necessary amendments to this law, and above all, in his debate, I only want to give some indication of what is said in Čakovec, so probably in Varazdin and in these garneries, which, in addition to these existing provisions of the law, have shown that it can be effectively worked on land-book things because the grantine in Čakovec is only doing those jobs that are really to be done and these are the registration of real estate, property and burdens and today's situation in practice is obviously in some other grants, in some other parts of it completely different because I will explain it to you on the following example. For example, a buy-in contract containing all the necessary legal elements and which was with the public notary on the approval of the signature by me should be sufficient for the implementation of the land-books of this. In that case, it should only be checked whether the data are accurate and whether the contract contains all the essential legal elements after which the owner should only, even though unfortunately this is still done manually from the time of Austria-Hungarian to enter the name of the new owner and this could be finished. Of course, the situation is not like that in us, but only then do the difficulties in the gretovnica have to be contributed to the insight of the housewives. Then comes the Ministry of Interior and the proof of residence. Various forms, paying various taxis. And when all this is brought for the second, third time on the groats, that's not all yet, then you should bring a copy... that it was paid somewhere else. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, instead of coming to the garland, people obviously lose two, three times, they have to come for the same thing and it's very difficult and I think that's how time is wasted both by the party and by the grants themselves. I also believe that in the future it is not enough just to have someone grant us a loan or in any other way to help us sort out land books and develop a judicial information system. Because it's really not an accurate finding and the fact that many think that the modernisation of the garter and catastra means just setting up a computer and establishing a complete digital system. Unfortunately, it takes a lot, a lot more than that. So if we know that, Croatia has a double set of institutions that provide legal and cadastrian data, I think that in the next changes that I'm sure will really need to come very quickly to work on to make it possible for the best to provide services in terms of garnery to be a unique service in the registration of property rights on land and on real estate based on the state cadastre. Simplifiedly speaking, grantovnica and cadastre should have the same data. So if one of these is a very brave step towards making these amendments and supplementing the law to introduce authorized land-based book references. I think that in the next step of the amendment and addition of this Act, the ministry can make the same brave and radical decision where this unification would take place, whether formal or only through the data of the grant and cadastrian particles, because that way, if one of the Czechs, Slovakia and Hungary could have done so, which also has their country's literary right to a wolf from Austro-Hungarian countries, I think it can but also has to do Croatia. For it also appeared with us in Međimurje, in Čakovec, that in those cases where the consistency of cadastrian and grantite particles is undisputed, the objects are indeed solved within one working day. Therefore, I end up, and I will personally support, as the HDZ Club, the adoption of these amendments and the addition of the law, but I am convinced that the future is very soon and in the future it will very soon go into further changes or perhaps even better adoption of a whole new law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-08-0.u16416	Thank you. It is up to the honourable representative, Joseph Leko.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-08-0.u16417	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, gentlemen from the government, colleagues and colleagues. In today's life and society, I think trust is one of the conditions of life at all today. Whether you believe it or... either to the lawyer or to the doctor or to the state and to its public documents or to the bank when you take your money in, you simply cannot live without it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And we as a state have prescribed in the Constitution to guarantee the right of ownership and our arrangement is based on it. And on the law of realness, on property, and on other real rights, we have stated that property is acquired by enrolment in land books. One way to acquire property is to register books in land books. And in the Law on Land Books, we say that land books, extracts, or writings, copies of land books enjoy public faith and have the power of public documents. It's great, but it has nothing to do with reality and reality. That's where we all realized it. We complain that there is not enough direct investment, that there is no legal certainty and the whole law that we are discussing all day does not see that purpose. So trust in the public books and harmony of public books with the real state of life. And now that we add to that, the Proposer says that within 30 days of the entry into force of this law, 400 thousand cases will have to be completed or everyone will be rejected. What are we discussing? Which is the purpose of our debate today. Or to statistically reduce the number of cases and boast that we have solved 400,000 cases in the judiciary, and indeed, in my court, the most complicated. In civil law, in my court the most complicated. Let's settle 400,000 by hand, within 30 days, no one will file an addition to the case, the request, no one, just no one. But we haven't solved the essence, we haven't increased legal certainty or established a real state of ownership in the Republic of Croatia. We have not thus raised the competitive capacity of the Republic of Croatia, nor will we bring investors on ice as the Republic of Croatia says. There's no trust in the land book, not even the law does sign it. Because it claims the law has legal protection and I suggest we enter that the Republic of Croatia is materially responsible for the untrueness of its public books. If we cannot do so in the entire territory of the Republic of Croatia, we can do so in those land books and those courts that have done so, we can arrange the land books. And one more thing to say, so there's no technology, technology just allows for the efficiencies, the economics of the country's book or the issuing of documents. It doesn't solve technology right, it's the foundation of this relationship, property and other real rights. Therefore, this law has missed its goal, it has missed its goal. The goal is to increase trust in land books and ensure that what is written in land books is correct and that it is materially guaranteed. Now, to give examples of how even without any public ID in Croatia would change land books would be a real burden for you, too, to a colleague of the trustees and the Croatian public, because it is indeed a professional job. Nothing in land books can be touched without an ID. It even happens to us that according to the law, the situation in the land books is changing. So what is this trust, what are we building? I therefore object to the article and to the law's intensities to reject incomplete applications for a land-based library procedure, in particular to leave a deadline, to share an exlegage period of 30 days after the entry into force of this Law to supplement the present cases of 400 thousand items. It doesn't solve the essence. It's statistics. We have a agenda and a law on spatial planning and editing of space and the Construction Act. It cannot be done in a normal, valid, or as the term “lege artis” way to pass the Law on spatial planning if no land book and measurement is arranged. It's not possible to do that. It's possible to satisfy the form, but not solve the essence, not solve the essence. That is why I think that, not by chance, the Constitution has devoted the entire ownership chapter and that the debate on, on the Law and on land books in grants is actually a debate on the foundations of the Constitution and we need to pay more attention, set more precise deadlines until when and in which areas trust in the public documents of the land book and when the state will materially guarantee these data. Just one more, one more, one more look at this bill of law. What is the responsibility of land-book reference if we give them how does the Proposer provide for powers under this Act? Are they qualified for that? Do they have the authority of the judge? Not in my court. But I would also have missed it for formal legal reasons, but is it really the objects that have a continuous sequence as the legislator himself says, it has to be proven to be a continuous series of owners whether it's just such a simple object that the referents can handle it? I don't think I can. I don't think I can. And let's not put a burden on people, on the shoulders of what I can't solve, so when it gets complicated, we're going back a few years. Let's figure it out, let's figure out how they're going to work on these things more permanently, but without being a responsible judge it won't just be possible because it's not in our legal system or possible. And finally, the complexity of the land-booking process, especially in Dalmatia, which is attacked from the point of view by sales and traffic of real estate, which will be even more so to say exposed to transport, thank God, that is the point and it is good, it tells us to identify ourselves urgently, which are areas in the Republic of Croatia because we can't take all of it, which are the priority of taking care of land books and giving them the guarantee that they are correct after they are settled. I think it's an interest, a lasting interest based on the Constitution of this state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-08-0.u16418	Thank you. It is up to the distinguished representative Nikola Vuljanić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-08-0.u16419	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues! They praise the government's valuable and well-intentioned intention to introduce order and efficiency into a segment of the legal system that is extremely sensitive and of great importance right now. But praises for valuable and good intentions are paved, says the proverb, many paths. I would only stick to one aspect of this bill at the moment and it seems to me that nomotechnical and, and other corrections are perfectly stated. In her explanation of the bill, Ms. Minister, she said that the land-booking referents introduced this way and the bill's proposal to the system would discuss uncontested, uncontested cases, uncontested entries in the land books. I ask questions who now decides what is uncontested and if at the moment when the crowd in land books is uncontested we transfer them to references, judicial affairs, and the law and the Constitution clearly states who in this country can judge, tomorrow we'll have a traffic jam in executive cases, and we'll transfer these jobs to the references as well to speed them up, day after day maybe in the penitentiary and only God knows where we'll stop. It seems to me that this very aspect of the bill is best spoken about how the proposaler of the Government of the Republic of Croatia looks at the legal system of the Republic of Croatia and the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. He sees it as a tool that can be used when it's needed, and when it's not needed, he puts it in the corner. I don't think it's a problem at all whether land-book referencers have medium professional equipment, higher professional equipment or high professional equipment. It's not, it doesn't matter at this point. They're not judges. And as non-judgmental persons, they can't make decisions that have the weight of a court decision. On the other hand, if we think it's a first-degree enrolment, if the promoter thinks that the first-degree entry in the land books is actually an administrative act that can really be made by a referencer, why doesn't he say so? Why doesn't he propose it in law? Therefore, the first-degree entry into the land book of the administrative act to be carried out by the referent. If there's a rush after, of course, then the judge will judge as the judge is already judging. So it turns out that we're installing quasi judges who do jobs for which they're not only competent, I can't say that, probably land-booked references in a good part of the case solve the matter before it comes to the judge, but for which they're not authorized. They should not do so under our Constitution and under the present state of all other laws. The minister also said in her explanation that judges should be released so that they can judge, not administer. If the judges have administered so far, it's just another confirmation of this request that I just said. So let's move that part of the job to the administrative part of the job. The one that any officer can really do. I'm saying in addition to the fact that this problem needs to be solved quickly, that it needs to be spent and a good part of the planned and unplanned money to improve the system, that these land books are finally computerized. I've had the courage to hear and see a land book written in German with a beautiful writing that's worth today, haven't I? Obviously someone in Austro-Hungarian wrote it and it is, that, that is, I don't know about some museum, probably but it is a valid document. The clear thing to do is to change it, but this way that skips the basic constitutional norms is not sure that the goal will be achieved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-08-0.u16420	Thank you. It is time for the honourable representative Damir Sesvečan.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-08-0.u16421	Mr. President, representatives of the ministry, colleagues and colleagues. This proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on land books is already part of the legislative legislation relating to the total reform of the judiciary. And whose aim is to improve and develop the judicial system for a more effective, more effective, impartial judiciary that should be a guarantee of the rule of law and legal certainty of citizens, the development of the market economy and entrepreneurship. Arranged land books are among the most important ones for the development of the economy, they are certainly a prerequisite for greater foreign investment. The potential investors in a number of administrative and bureaucratic restrictions with which they will first face unsettled property legal relations, which are largely the cause of the unsettled land book, the Land Books do not contain accurate or up-to-date property rights records, nor are they in line with the cataclystre books. Therefore, the reform of the judiciary in the area that covers land books needs to be adapted to modern legal property protruding, so that traditional handbooking is transformed into an electronic-run land book. The transition to an electronic land-based cadastre will form a single land-based database where the land-book data will be consistent with the data recorded in the cadastre. And the union will be written to the real rights of their dignitaries. This would achieve full application of the principle of trust, in the truth and completeness of the land book. Given that this bill aims to achieve greater efficiency, the urgency of land-based book courts, and the reduction of the number of unsolved land-based book cases. Of course, you should give and support. First of all, this law proposes to change the position of land-based library officials, allowing them to be more independent and responsible in solving land-based books. Introduces authorised land-based book-referencing experts who make their own solutions in the land-based book process, and perform other work that precedes the decision-making process. The authorised country reference officer would be appointed by the President of the High Court on a proposal from the President of the Land Book Court in which the official works in accordance with the conditions and procedure laid down in this Act. Thus, the authorised land reference officer would have to have passed a professional exam and appropriate professional training, and this would be a higher professional preparation of the social or geodetic direction and of the 5-way work experience on the business of an extraterrestrial book clerk or the medium professional preparation of the social or geodetic direction and 10 years of working experience on the affairs of the land reference. In addition, under the conditions laid down for the appointment of authorised countries of library references, the president of the directly senior court may temporarily, following the proposal of the president of the country's book court, issue the land library reference authorities with the power to act and adopt a solution in the country's book process at a time of 2 years. During that period of temporary power, the authorised land reference officer is required to pass a special expert examination. If the official did not pass the examination within two years, he would lose his authority to carry out his entrusted tasks and, if he passed the examination, he could be given the authority to carry out his duties for a further five years. And after that, the deadline expires and permanently. This law also proposes that the psols in the land bookmaking process to be conducted by the appointed land-licensed library referencer, be entrusted by the president of the land-based book court in which the official is appointed. The President of the Court or the Court of Justice who may be given a decision to take over from the authorised land reference officer of the case and to assign it to another authorised land reference, or to assign it to the judge as stated in the law for justified reasons. In that case, the judge shall make a decision with all previous actions to be carried out by an authorised land reference under the supervision of the judge. In the process of overseeing the work of an authorised land reference officer as well as in the proceedings under the law of appeal, the judge could, in whole or in part, amend the solution in question, all in order to move faster and more efficiently in the legal traffic of real estate. And against that, the more resolute ensures with a proper remedy, the right to appeal to the court of second degree. In particular, I would like to emphasise as a good solution to the introduction of specific forms, and the promoter will call them printers, and I think that a more appropriate and correct name would be a form on which proposals for entry into land books are submitted. the form and content of which is prescribed, or shall be prescribed by a special regulation. Despite the fact that it may seem that the introduction of forms and eradicating so far the provisions of this law on the need for the country's library court to teach parties, makes it difficult for citizens or applicants to register, the introduction of forms will in fact facilitate the entry because applicants of the proposal will have precisely what the documents need to do with the proposal for registration. For these reasons, I will support the adoption of this Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Land Books. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-08-0.u16422	Thank you. Jozo Topic is not present, losing the right to debate. Dear Representative Milan Meden.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-08-0.u16423	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. ALREADY in the preliminary assessment of the legislator as the biggest problem were the court proceedings in land books to last too long. Proposals for enrolment in the land-based book process are incomplete and there is insufficient space and information equipment. All in all, the assessment not cited by the promoter so the justice ministry does not look the most brilliant and can be said, inefficient business in land books. Since the non-compliant land-based book and catastrian situation is also listed, non-transparent real estate management could also be said. This problem is obviously not a newer date, and it is well known that in our premises the catastrian plans and land books of the then old Austrian state even in the early 19th century. The Catastrean plans and the order of land books were not arranged to resolve border disputes but to properly collect taxes. Of course, during the nearly two centuries, there have been many changes in the eye that have not been mapped out or misdrawn into the catastrian plans, and the catastrian plans have repeatedly crossed down for various reasons of damage. Or because of a change in the language of the state. For example. It was old Austria, Italy, Yugoslavia and finally Croatia in Istria County. Thus, the catastrian plans became out of line with land books, which is precisely that non-transparency in real estate traffic, and it seems that we should have continued the course of the knowledge and technology process of Austria at the time, and today there would be no problem. But it is up to us, in fact, to correct the overall efficiency of the state administration, and so on in land books, so that users of services, therefore, our citizens, are finally satisfied. They actually deserve it because these services always pay or advance on the spot. So the state really isn't fair in this case to the citizens. Before our citizens actually came to court, or to a popular grantovnica, they had already visited geodetic companies to build geodetic elaborates, and they mainly paid more than 300 euros. I speak from my personal experience. Then they went to the cadastre to draw a division on the plot or a new house into the catastrian plan and after a little bit of happiness and waiting 2 months and with the new actually 100 euros paid by the state for the necessary paperwork finally came to order and to the grantovnica. Prior to that, they had already visited the law offices and public notebooks to teach them the necessary documents of business, and of course provided information which way and through which a person will handle it the simplest way. So the cost and the new cost. Before our users, therefore, citizens become real owners of land books, it is necessary to address the last legal obstacle called the land-book process. The very notes of the legislator show that the problem is not equal from court to court, from city to city. So, for example. in Zagreb, Split, Rijeka and Makarska, there are great backlogs as is written by the legislators, i.e. it can be concluded that in these cities a relatively fast ownership list can be obtained in the grantovnica, i.e. that it is a true lottery, i.e. a win at the bookshop is obtained in due time. Someone would say at first sight that the problem in big cities is because there's a lot of real estate stores, but I asked around, for example. There is no such problem in Osijek or Pula. The problem is also present in some small towns such as Makarska, as stated or perhaps Rovinj in our county. So we come to the conclusion that there is always a problem in people who are responsible for the processes, and their results have not been checked or are not responsible for verticalizing their superiors. In the economic jargon, therefore, there is no control and programme of measures. It is actually called non-transparency in real estate transport in Croatia and it is no wonder that these topics are filled with newspapers, and the actors are very often people who are actually responsible for these legal and geodetic processes in real estate management. It is commendable and congratulating that this Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Land Books brings the paper with the aim of speeding up the process in land books. This is intended to be achieved by the introduction of authorised land-based book-referencing references, which will then make their own solutions by rejecting, by rejecting, or by rejecting, rough and incomplete proposals or by different regulation of the right of appeal. In Article 109.b, the legislator referred to the conditions for the appointment of authorised land-book references and passed a professional examination, a higher professional preparation of the social or geodetic direction and the experience of 5 years or with a professional preparation of 10 years. I conclude that the same people with a small education will do the same work and in fact most of the existing employees in the land-book business will become land-book referencers. The very conditions show that new people should have five to ten years of work experience, which is actually a major obstacle to the rapid market change of new educated young geodes and lawyers. So the law is always written for the same employees. The fact is that one of the main causes of the bad situation in land books is inadequately educated professionally, so it would be a much greater effect if a minimum increase in budgets to this end could be employed and a part of the new educated young people who are certainly well placed on the market. I heard on the TV a few days ago that over 700 unemployed lawyers were recorded, and I honestly believe there are still so many geodesics. The question was therefore asked whether a greater contribution would be made to the effectiveness of the judicial land-booking processes if and if they were to be accelerated if they were to be further educated, i.e. specialised in these very people in the given conditions, with only passing the necessary expert examination. From personal experience, I am telling you that the introduction of a part of the new highly educated people would create processes more effectively and as the greatest value you would be implementing into existing courts new external references, you would create a future core of young responsible managers that you obviously lack before and today. That draft law deletes the provision on the need for the Land and Book Court to teach the parties legally and to reject incomplete proposals. In this way, the number of cases will be statistically reduced, but in fact the number of cases that have actually been resolved will be increased. In order to protect the users of the service, it is necessary to enable a quality and orderly request to be able to make them themselves and it is necessary to define in advance the simplicity of the form and by regulation to disable the gray economy or popular fuche in the chain of the user we call the party, then the reference, authorised land-book reference, lawyer and judge. I believe it would be useful to review the possibility of introducing a right of appeal to a denied subject in the form that he is incomplete. I sincerely believe that this bill will give positive legal effects, regardless of my opinions, and for transparency, I propose an additional economic and economic approach. Obviously, there is another major problem that is not listed, which is listed in the opening presentation of our minister, but there is no identity of data in land books, catastrus and, of course, in state and county construction offices. They are under the authority of different ministries, so the Ministry of Justice, Finance and the Geodesy Administration. Simplifiedly said our user or party when there is a problem walking from the office to the office of the state administration and always carries the product which they produced and always pays this same state. So this is certainly not fair to the user, something would be done for sure. This looks only seemingly complicated, but today I heard from the former justice minister that it was a project that had already been launched and measured in millions of euros. The project should indeed resolve the deviation of the real situation in land books and catastros, and this will surely be resolved by a new measure that will certainly last for many years and require considerable financial resources. I'm sure it's possible to implement a much cheaper transitional but more effective solution. Those of these professions believe that they will understand me, i.e. it is possible to translate land-book records into digital form. It is equally possible to implement the land cataster for which the Geodetic Authority is responsible. So it is possible to translate existing cadastar plans whose state corresponds roughly to the situation in land books into digital form as well. After scanning with existing or perhaps some new techniques plans are set in appropriate... The system or how the geodetics say it popularly they vector in space. [[You don't understand.]] So at all times we know what its latitude, length and altitude is. It is indisputable that with relatively small financial resources, the digitisation of data according to existing experiences can be done for the whole country, experts say maximum within one year, so it must be seven or ten times less than with this huge large... and will get positive results after the first year. [[You don't understand.]] After such a procedure no more paper, the entire catastrian municipalities are now electronically connected, a single single base is created with real estate maps with measurable surfaces, each change and purchase of contracts, dates, change of parcels, property etc. is recorded. etc. What else is missing? We're missing a strong information system that we're talking about, like. There's a Zagreb bank or a company, so I'm saying that's not the problem. Problems are still the education of people. What exactly is perhaps the most important thing for the Justice Department right now? So with a monitor upgrade, monitoring such a base would be possible to see which is the land-book reference
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-08-0.u16424	Thank you. Time's up.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-08-0.u16425	...resolved the object and you could measure both the effectiveness and the effect of these people, so you could finally...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-08-0.u16426	Thank you. Time's up. With this, we've exhausted the debate, the individual debate for 10 minutes. On behalf of the HSS Club, five minutes, the honourable representative Pankretic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-08-0.u16427	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Madam Secretary of State, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, please allow a few sentences specifically related to this Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Land Books. I think that, here I'm going to talk more here from an experience that I have from the last period specifically related to this topic, which is this inconsistencies of land-book and cadastrian state. One huge job led by the Ministry of Agriculture and is still being run by a register of agricultural holdings one of the biggest jobs was the entry of agricultural land in the part where nearly 15 million particles were to be associated with agricultural holdings. At that moment we definitely came to the knowledge that many have already emphasized, and it is also generally known about this huge discrepancy between the catastrophe itself and the grantine but also the overall problem of ownership itself. We think that one small wheel has been made in this part, one small improvement in this part of solving these issues, but I think we all are being forced to think about one systematic solution to something that will improve the overall situation, because it is in very concrete cases causing major problems. I am not going to talk about how much our farmers have had here a direct problem with the exercise of their rights which they should have gained in view of the Law on aid in agriculture, where, unfortunately, because of the undefined overall situation and the consistency between the cadastres, the grantovna and the overall situation, there have also been certain abuses. We think that in this part of it it is not enough to go with this small part that I sincerely believe as it is here in most discussions emphasized to improve a certain part of this system, a certain degree of harmony than it is necessary to go into concrete solutions. Which is why, in concrete and systematic solutions, I am going to talk about a segment relating to agricultural land in that part because without such a systematic solution, without the consistency of catastra and grantovo it is impossible to do the specific task that is ahead of us, and that is control and we need to know exactly what the cadastral particles are, whose ownership and then by one particular system to carry out this particular control. I think it's definitely clear, I think you've all found yourself in a situation where you've tried to determine a certain transfer as far as ownership itself is concerned, when you came to grantovon to see that there are 28 or more, I had a personal case of 28 owners solving this very long process. In this part, I believe that at least this part of the problem will be managed but I appeal in this part to make an additional systemic solution that will improve. What we all have here is not just a case in agriculture, but it is also a case in many other economic parts where, and sometimes, certain investments can't be made because of these unsettled ownership relations, I believe this will contribute to this part, but of course I think the promoter will agree that this is a part of the system that we need to solve. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-08-0.u16428	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS PGS Club, Alenka Kosha Chichin-Shain.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-08-0.u16429	Dear Mr. Vice President, distinguished MPs and MPs, the esteemed proposings. The paper of this proposal is of course to facilitate and speed up the settlement of objects in land books, especially from titles that in large cities there are large quantities of leftover items. To a large extent, this increase has been driven by increased sales and traffic of real estate, and it is expected that such a trend will continue or even increase by the fact that Europe is joining. Of course, the flexibility of land books is of immediate importance for each investor and is a prerequisite for the progress of the market economy and for the faster development of entrepreneurship. I therefore welcome the paper of the introduction of referents in the process of solving land-to-book cases, more so than many of these jobs have done today, and these only existing referents are given the power to sign these solutions. I note that this is a very specific job and that the proposal is primarily very pragmatic given that powers are given to existing referents while the introduction of young lawyers, or judges, should continue to remain a lasting trend with the note that this reference to a specific job sometimes takes several years. That the referents only, of course, in the transitional period and possibly in some way, think about how this is really being resolved in the first degree of some other administrative procedure and only in court as a second degree. However, let me continue to speculate here that other proposed changes will achieve a more effective solution to the case, so I propose that, with the introduction of powers to existing referencers, the introduction of a norm institute, that materially stimulates work, through norms, of course only for metrically solved items where the request is positively resolved so that it can come up with a solution to the book. In this respect, I would also like to propose an amendment. It is questionable, however, whether the effects of greater efficiency of courts will be achieved by submitting proposals for registration in special forms. Incomplete and disorderly submissions and are precisely such for the purposes of the terribly selected procedures and by the fact that they will be rejected or rejected within 30 days unless all the necessary documents are attached, the pressures on the judiciary will not be reduced for the purpose of the book registration. A large number of submissions of course will be resolved in the first run, but further requests will eventually be made because the rejected or rejected parties, regardless of the high tax requirements, will repeat. In other words, it is not only the interest of individuals in orderly booked real estate, but it is the interest of the state to finally settle land books and to agree on the situation in the Catastrian and Book Opera. Complicated and selected procedures and erasing provisions on the need for the country's library court to teach parties legally and to reject or reject messy and incomplete proposals will ultimately lead to an even greater accumulation of cases. However, due to the complexity of the case where a number of previously unimplemented procedures exist, they may be rejected and the latest in a series not by their own fault but by the fact that the predecessors did not carry out their actions. This will cause chain rejection of all items in sequence so that even neat items will be rejected and will re-emerge with a new request. And let me also point out, if the object is rejected and the parties will only get a hint that it was rejected just for the sake of a messy submission and still will not be aware of what is missing. If the principle of truth and completeness of enrollment in the land books is delayed, up to 1. 1. In 2007, it should then be possible for land-based procedures, and not only in court cases, to establish the possibility of enrolment in land books, for example in the acquisition of property under law, court decisions or decisions by the competent authority. Maintaining legal assistance institutes and training to ignorant parties in our case is very important given the educational level of our people, as well as the financial opportunities or inability of clients to hire lawyers for such jobs. Whether it is regulated by a provision like so far, whether it is introduced as it used to be to provide free judicial assistance in certain days, i.e. providing instructions to the ignorant party. It's important that it exists. If, in the interest of the end, it is possible to settle the existing chaos in grants, it is certainly possible by introducing transitional provisions that would have made it easier for norms than it used to be until 97 when a number of items of a particular nature were solved through so-called. A commission in less formal procedures and was easier to deal with. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-08-0.u16430	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP Club, the esteemed representative, Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-08-0.u16431	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, State Secretary, MPs and MPs. Here again, on behalf of the SDP Club, I stress that the idea of leadership for one greater independence, but also the responsibility of land-booked references, including all those and officials and subsistences, and even in the judicial officials themselves, is not necessary to achieve efficiency. Here is already a colleague who had just said the necessary attention needed in some way, because that's exactly what citizens are asking for, the question, so the norms to ask, of course, is possible through a sublegal act, but also transparent responsibilities. Because it's something that is absolutely necessary in every system, especially the judicial system. And once again, I stress that this existing state of affairs is essentially only legalizing the existing situation and transferring responsibility from the court that has been signed so far, the judge who has so far signed the solution, but then should at least establish the same responsibility of this authorised land reference who is now, or according to this proposal, belongs to him precisely to the jurisdiction of what the judge himself has done so far. But again, I point out something that threatens the danger, that we will introduce three degrees of decision-making into the land-booking process in this way. Which will once again be the desire to speed up the process, then make the procedure difficult again, or complicated. So we know that our executive procedure was also complicated, so we changed it last year because it allows two legal medicines and a complaint and a complaint. Well, then it's more complicated in practice than it is in the section itself. and therefore threatens to do so here and with such a solution as is proposed in Article 7. It is also likely to be the law since in the emergency procedure it was quite quick and done. So here I draw attention to the applicant's need for an article, i.e. paragraphs 4 and 5 of Article 8, which says, paragraph 5, that the so far land-book reference which will not be given temporary authority to carry out the work, is above all a major legal inadequacy, therefore which they do not get. So in that sense, it would be worth correcting. and land-book references don't work in a land-book, often in a land-book we find moths and various insects because they're in adequate spaces, but we've never found a reference in a land-book. Well, I'm asking you to make a special suggestion about it, and we're all taking care of it here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-08-0.u16432	Thank you. On behalf of the promoter, State Secretary Snježana Bagic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-08-0.u16433	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. At the end of the debate on this proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Land Books, allow me to look at at least partially how much I manage to cover in this final presentation to some of the comments, suggestions that have been made during this debate. It seems to me that there is a general agreement between all those who spoke today, involved in the debate that the principle of trust in land books is something that cannot be moved forward. One company that has a goal and a need to be market-oriented, allow freedom of investment cannot go forward without accurate records of ownership, and land books are exactly that, property records, in this case in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, we will not have a constitutional principle of protection of the rights of ownership of the guarantee until we have settled land books. That's a fact. On the other hand, it is also true and no one can disprove the argument that at this point we do not have this principle that we can respect in the ultimate line under the Property Act and other real rights the principle of trust delayed by 1.1. In 2007. By the way, we allowed... land-reforming books that harmonize the land-book situation and the cadastre then have this principle of trust already fulfilled and it is worth it. [[/the speaker doesn't understand.]] But that's something that can only be partially applied to a small sample of grant vessels. How do you do that, you ask a question? So the state of land books and catastras is not arranged. For reasons, there's been a lot of talk and I wouldn't go back to them. But the question is, how are we going to go forward, how are we going to achieve our goal? There have been various suggestions and remarks, of which perhaps a new law should be passed, not just a partial change in the chaos that the Government proposes. Perhaps it is possible and so personally I adhere to those who have said in this debate that our existing law on land books in my total is a good law in general. On the basis of it, a sublaw of land-book rules has been passed, it continues on to our tradition, it is in accordance with other legislations that are compatible with us, and it is as such a law that is in its entirety applicable to achieving the desired goal. But just passing the law, and if we don't implement it, it's not something that leads us to that goal. In the Republic of Croatia what is imperative, it is to harmonise the land-book state and the catastre on the one hand. And on the other hand, the state of the land books and nature. Because you often have a situation that the built building is not listed, therefore, that condition does not correspond to what is in reality. What the state is doing and what seems to me to need to be said out loud and clear here is to confirm that, is under way a project that refers to... I'm sorry, and catastra, it's a project that currently includes 56 courts and cadastres, it's a project that costs a lot. [[/the speaker doesn't understand.]] The state cannot provide sufficient financial resources in its budget, in total it is financed from the World Bank loan,... The World Bank, and from Cards' funds, amounts to 39m euros. On the one hand, its goal is to refresh the management of land books, so to change the way land books are kept from hand-to-hand to computerized land-book, an electronic-run land-book, and that is something that is consistent with modern trends, with new technologies, on the one hand, which will speed up and contribute to the safety of land-booking as real estate records, but in itself it will not eliminate what our problem is, and that is that the land-books are not arranged. As part of this project, it is also being conducted before it is passed electronically by the management of land books, the construction of land, the condition of the catastras. As part of this commission's work, which was mentioned by the honourable representative for the proper land-booking procedure, it is already being carried out in some courts. So I think I need to point out some positive examples here. Already some here note... the danger of forgetting some of the courts, I will mention the courts in Varazdin again, in Čakovec, in Sisak, in Velika Gorica, Pula and in other cities of Istria. So these are those courts that already have a condition, where the relationship between the catastra and the land book corresponds to what we want, which is that the data in the owner of that famous list in the land book corresponds to... The catastrous and where the assumptions were created... [[the speaker doesn't understand]] data, therefore, that the cadastre and land book corresponded to others, and that the property in the land books is arranged in the list b). [[the speaker doesn't understand]] Unfortunately, however, we are facing the situation that it is a relatively small number of courts, a small number of grantovnicas, and that they are the largest, where the biggest economic traffic does not correspond to that goal, which are grantovnicas in Zagreb, Split and Rijeka, and therefore additional efforts should be made to do so. So the total of these measures this law, i.e. amending and supplementing this law, is just one step forward. So those who say they shouldn't be too optimistic that this law itself is going to change something important, it won't, it won't matter, but it's going to be one step forward, one shift. Why? Because the process of enrolling in the land books is strictly formal procedure. It's a procedure that requires you to have the exact documents listed, and now it's further proposed to prescribe standardized patterns. Here were the words, I confirm that some courts themselves had these patterns to continue the procedure and using these very special experiences, and this practice is now prescribed to standardise uniquely in order to prevent possible deviations in individual courts of unique patterns. So it will speed up and simplify the procedure from one side. On the other hand, what justifiably and comprehensibly caused the most... It seems to me that with a land-book judge the power to sign land-book solutions is transferred to... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] the land-book reference which would be referred to by an authorised land-book reference after a special expert examination. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] With all the dangers and fences that were presented during this debate, the Government of the Republic of Croatia did not easily approach the proposed solution. Experts gave their opinion to the committees. The government also contacted the courts before sending this proposal, the presidents of the courts, the judges they think about, came across positive echoes and positive reactions precisely because of the people who have these specific knowledge. The knowledge of the land-book reference is specific knowledge. There aren't many of them. There are about 560 in the Republic of Croatia. These are people who are actually working in practice, who specialize in doing these jobs. They... We say they legalize practice. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Yeah, because they're doing this job right now, they're preparing, they're checking the documents, they're checking if they're okay, and they're finally drawing up a draft decision. So why not give them faith especially when it is consensual and those judges who may have been invited also to say their opinions when they also feel that they should be given the faith. So, to their expertise, to their experience and to give them that authority and trust. This will, on the one hand, relieve the judges, extend the circle of people who will issue a solution, and it will be a step forward to take some steps, to speed up these ground-book procedures. We do not think that this constitutionally calls it into question because land-booking procedures in their specificities and complexity are still not procedures that can be considered one true trial because you do not have parties, you have no conflicting interests. On the other hand, there is an additional control mechanism which is that a judge or president of the court can always take cases if he considers it complicated and further resolves it. There have also been observations that there are not enough of these funds for education, education is foreseen funds from the budget... on the one hand, and for the additional work of these authorised land-book references, or for potentially higher salaries, funds will be provided by redistributing within the Ministry of Justice to sections to cover material expenditure. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, I thank all those who contributed to this debate. With respect to all the objections and suggestions made by the Government of the Republic as a proposing that this bill is a single step forward towards resolving the overall state of land and book, I repeat, neither is it meant nor does it have the ambition to resolve this issue by doing so. It is only one element in the total of all measures taken. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-08-0.u16434	I thank the secretary of state. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the distinguished representative Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-08-0.u16435	About this finding that most of the experts in Croatia are in the view that this may not be constitutionally-legal. It's not true. Mr. Gavela, who is a professor at the Civil Rights Department, also expressed his skepticism regarding the constitutional and legal nature of the constitutionality that land-booking referents lead this process because it is nevertheless civil states. And in that sense, I was speaking on behalf of the club means because the government took one risk and we will support it, but that fact is not exactly true that everyone shares the view that this is not about constitutional and legal problems.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-08-0.u16436	Here, the secretary of state said that most of them and you gave the opinion of one of the professors. Okay. Thank you. Representatives and MPs, with this we have completed or exhausted the agenda for the morning part of the session. We continue with a united discussion of points 9 and 10. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on spatial regulation, with a final proposal for a law and a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Construction Act, with a final proposal. The clubs will have the possibility of a 20-minute debate and the session will continue at 3:00.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-08-0.u16437	Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Land Books, emergency procedure, first and second reading, Bill No 122. The debate on the text of the Law is over. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Legislatives and Honorable Representative Alenka Kosisa Chicin-Shain. I would like to ask Mrs. Snježana Bagic, State Secretary of the Justice Department, to point out the amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-08-0.u16438	Mr President, the Legislative Committee has tabled three amendments to all three amendments to the nomotechnical content and the Government accepts all three amendments to the Legislative Committee. As far as the amendments to the esteemed Alenka Kosisa MP Chichin-Shain government supports the intensities of the amendment and is ready to accept it in a somewhat reformed content.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-08-0.u16439	Easy, Madam Secretary of State. The Legislative Committee you accepted, it becomes an integral part of the law. Now let's go to the esteemed representatives of Alenka Koshasha Chichin-Shain.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-08-0.u16440	As far as the amendments to Alenka Kosisa's distinguished MP, Chichin-Shain, are concerned, the government supports the intensities of this amendment and is ready to accept it but in somewhat reformed content. In this amendment, it is proposed that the President of the Land and Book Court set out by a special act the standard for authorised land and book references. According to the Government's assessment, this would lead to different norms being laid down in certain courts and, in order to bring the norms in all courts, propose that the Minister of Justice do so by means of a regulation which is thus envisaged to be adopted by this Act within 30 days, so that the revised amendment reads: "The Rules of Procedure of Article 6 of this Law of the Justice will prescribe the norm or the number of files which, within a certain period, the authorised land-book reference should be dealt with positively. In paragraph 2 of the Regulation referred to in the paragraph of this Article, special compensation for each positively resolved item above the prescribed standard will also be prescribed.’.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-08-0.u16441	Thank you very much. The respected applicants of the amendment cannot discuss or accept the verbally reshape proposal of the Government, you, if you want to submit your own amendment from the Government, but for now, it seems that you do not have time for this. Who's for the amendment of Alenka Kosha Chichin-Shain? He didn't get enough votes. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Restraint? I find that with 81 votes for, 2 against and 4 abstentions, the Law was adopted in the text as proposed by the Proposer together with the adopted amendment of the Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-08-0.u16444	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. This is during the 6-month work and our Ministry and Government Council, i.e. the State Council for Spatial Planning, reviewing de facto all county plans, all detailed and spatial plans that have been carried out to review themselves, the field itself, all the locations for which we have received a lot of objections so far, we have decided and we believe it is necessary to take some urgent measures. That is why we have proposed amendments and additions to the laws on spatial planning and the Construction Act because it is simply a situation in space, and space should be the one we should protect the most, in fact, terrible. It is clear that there is an entirely large difference between the northern counties and the southern counties because the interest is much smaller in the northern counties. And in the northern counties, we have a lot less illegal facilities, so we even have a county where we don't have a single illegally built facility. For this reason, we also think that we are asking for your support that the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Spatial Planning be adopted according to an emergency procedure where they would first determine the protection of the coastal area. We suggest that the coastal area that will be protected be the size of the coast inland of 1,000 metres, at sea 300 metres, and that all the islands are included. We've expanded the part-time work of spatial planning advice. For the islands, we suggest making a common single spatial plan because we have found that in certain plans that the municipalities have brought and you know that there are two municipalities to seven municipalities even on an island, no matter how large it is. That the municipal infrastructure in some plans is not resolved at all, that the roads are not harmonised that they are not, the attitude towards ports is a big issue and we simply think that it is necessary to bring it. Of course we won't be intruding into the rights of local self-government units to bring in these plans, but these plans have to be coordinated, so 1 plan with normally their detailed and urban planning of the arrangement by the municipalities. Then we also found that one part of the spatial plans was brought in, individual municipalities and cities, that there are about 150 but that those small municipalities that don't have some big future development generally didn't have their plans, they didn't have the resources, they didn't have people to do that to them. Because county institutions are still primarily solving cities in the counties and then these small municipalities remain on the sidelines. As a result, we and in the budget of this year have provided 2.5 million kuna to help these municipalities and as we provide them with professional assistance, we are now giving them financial assistance and much of it is already agreed so that municipalities can move towards the development of spatial plans. However, we do not think that the content of the plans must be equal for the city, for a larger municipality than to say for simpler municipalities, which do not have such a large future development should come up with plans with less content, and that these are the municipalities that can make such plans. And it really doesn't make any sense to waste money on something that someone doesn't need. Then, we propose that the programme of measures to improve the situation in the space that has been brought so far for 2 years be adopted by 4 years. And that every two years it's only possible to amend the programme of measures to improve the situation in space. This is because, so far, whenever any headship or municipal council has decided to amend the programme of measures to improve the state of affairs measures in one segment, in two segments, I think, in any way, as to whom anything fits at a certain time. Space planning, however, is a longer-term job, which is one goal that we need to achieve for a longer-term period, and we think that this will also protect that part. We've established a new deadline for creating spatial plans and 31. The next 12 years and on all committees where we discussed it, some say the plan should be shortened for coastal areas. We agree to partially shorten but I think we should all talk about it together and determine whether it's six months for this spatial, for these spatial plans, we don't think there's gonna be people able to bring it all in or be a year and for everyone else to be a year and a half. Because right now it's important that we reintroduce the possibility that those units of local self-government who don't bring up spatial plans in time are asked to be replaced by a municipal or city council. This was before, clearly when the deadline was excluded, when the deadline for the production of spatial plans was not then and this clause could not be applied but was applied only when the budget was concerned. We think that space is much more important than the budget and that it should also be one of the reasons why, for which it will not, which is simply not wanted, can be replaced by the municipal council. Here we have prescribed one more thing and that is that 30 days from the adoption of this, the amendment and addition of the law on spatial regulation should be made, the government should bring a regulation to determine how and how, how spatial plans can be drawn up in the coastal area, so I speak for the coastal area exclusively. But also what can be done after those 30 days. Thus, there will be no complete moratorium on construction, on a particular sea or coastal area, but a regulation will determine what it is that can be done. Namely, all those who have the rightful building permits can continue to build. All those in the built part of the construction area had plans that were in line with the county plans, there is no reason to prevent them from building completely. But those who have large areas that thank God are still green, where, let's say, tourism is foreseen for this, we insist and ask for the adoption of urban plans. So either detailed plans or plans to edit space because we think it's impossible to issue location permits in a way that all of this becomes apartments, apartments. So where there was supposed to be high tourism, where there should have been a tourist area that we simply determine that, in fact, local permits are issued that de facto residential buildings called apart hotels can be built, and in fact it's only about selling, about selling these apartments or these apartments. This regulation will therefore determine this, and I think we have made it clear on the committees that there is no complete moratorium but that there is a moratorium in certain areas and that it is simply necessary because otherwise we cannot have any control in space. There are even more minor changes and additions to this Law. One of the more important things is land parcels. We determine how parcels can be carried out, i.e. cities, municipalities and states will be able, under official duty, to request that a useful part of a given parcel be established. We have cases where according to old plans, especially when, when socially-oriented housing was done, there are 3, 4, 5 or 10 objects of various contents on one plot and if the people who live there or someone else did not ask for a plot of that land, there could be no parcel. A useful part of the parcel could not be established. And then what happened was that certain neighborhoods were made to the right, in the right sense of the word we can call it, like, Straight in Zagreb or something like that, where the road was made, kindergarten, shelters, residential buildings, and all of a sudden they became parties in the process for each facility. It's simply inconclusive, and that's why we think we need to determine. Or if, for example, an object such as a hotel is located in a large area, we think it is necessary to establish a useful part of the property for that hotel with all normal accompanying facilities that it must have and that it can be requested by official duty, cities, municipalities, or states. It's about the Law of Spatial Planning. As far as the Construction Act is concerned, we also had to settle some things in relation to the law that entered into force on January 1, this year. Especially with regard to the reduction of sublegal acts, then as far as much of it is planned and we don't think it's necessary. For example, construction engineers or architects had to take a professional exam every 4 years. No profession takes a professional exam every 4 years. So there's no reason for them to do it, to tie it to this profession alone. That's why we ended it. Furthermore, the further part is to simplify the issue of a building permit which I think interests all people and what is particularly significant. We've determined that I'm based on a detailed plan, so you know how the procedure is going now. It shall be obtained either a location permit or a copy of the detailed plan and shall be based on a building permit. They're all going through a certain procedure. So the location permit gets all the consent. The detailed plan receives all consent from companies, from various ministries and the like. When requesting a building permit, all of this must be repeated. So now we've lifted it all. We said if there was once a consensus, then there's no reason for these consents to be sought again except for what applies directly to the house, which means the stability of the facility, the protection of cultural heritage if it's in such an area. Then protection at work and protection against ionizing radiation. So only four consents for, will be necessary if all of this is settled. There is a lot of simplification in the process, and we have also increased the number of simple objects that do not require a building permit so that in that part, the situation will certainly be much simpler and better than it has been so far. These are actually the main changes to this, this law. Of course, you've all seen it on committees, studied it, and that you know less about it, but clearly, we can also do some other things in this debate and fix it if necessary. What I must especially stress is that we are preparing a new Law on Spatial Planning and Construction. We don't think the Construction Act should be in itself and construction products because that's what they do, they deal with each other. There are also European two directives, one talking about construction products, the other talking about construction. So we think it would be much better and we're already working on that concept. We are almost done with the concept that spatial planning and construction should be collected into one law and that construction products should be a special, special law. Clearly, we have before us the adoption of the Law on Building Land. After the adoption of the Law on Property and other real rights, the Law on Land actually has no other than this Law on Property, and we think it is necessary to establish both urban cohesion and the possibility of different interventions in space than is present now. But that's our job we've been doing since we got here and by the end of the year, I'm sure we'll propose a real law on spatial planning and construction. But I also ask you to accept these amendments and to supplement the Law on spatial planning and construction and to address certain problems that are present, but preferably to protect space. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-08-0.u16445	I would like to thank Mrs. Secretary. Would the committee reporter like to take the floor? Mr. Slavko Linic, please. On behalf of the Committee on Spatial Planning and Environmental Protection.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-08-0.u16446	Mr. Vice President, Minister, colleagues and koelge! The Committee on Spatial Planning and Environmental Protection has examined both texts of the legislative proposal, on the basis of the competences set out in Article 83. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament as a parent working body. When we talk about the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Spatial Arrangements, the Committee proposed, accepted the proposed legislative solutions even though they were assessed as very restrictive, but the reason for the adoption of the order in space of such restrictive solutions and particularly in the coastal area and islands, the Committee members gave their support. In the debate, the Committee members proposed two amendments. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The short explanation of the above amendment reduces the time limit for the adoption of spatial arrangements for municipalities and cities on a protected coastal band. The proposed amendments to Article 39(1) shall also be accompanied by paragraph 2, by the municipalities, cities and counties referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article. A paragraph 2 becomes paragraph 3. The reasons for the amendment shall be laid down in which municipalities, cities and counties on a protected coastal belt or area must submit to the Ministry of Environmental Protection, spatial planning and construction plans adopted, in order to obtain consent. When we talk about the Law amending and supplementing the Construction Act with the final proposal for text, an emergency procedure has been adopted and a proposal to amend this law has been adopted, and if we have received information from the applicants that it is working on a new text. And for the reason that we estimate that the above-mentioned emergency procedure of amendments and additions will facilitate the implementation of the existing law, which came into force at the beginning of this year, will clear up some of the concerns that implementation has shown in these few months and in practice. But it also solves some, I would say, provisions of the current law that make up certain disturbances and in the interest of the economy. But I'd say the disturbances that make the implementation of this law difficult. The Committee also proposes a single amendment to Article 58 in the third sentence, "20% or more", is deleted. And with a reason that any building built or built against a building permit, regardless of the procedure of handling or increasing the external three-line surface, is considered to be illegal. For all reasons, Article 58 does not necessarily create new assumptions of illegal construction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-08-0.u16447	I thank the President of the Committee for bringing Linic down. Does the chairman of the Committee on Legislatives, i.e. for Maritime Affairs, Transport and Relationships want? He doesn't want to. We're moving on. Tourism. The Maritime, Transport and Communications Committee, but it's not said to be here. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-08-0.u16448	Mr. Vice President, Madam Minister, of course tourism has something to do with this. At the 5th session of the Committee held on 8 July 2004, the Tourism Committee discussed the draft law amending the Law on Spatial Planning with the final draft law. The President of the Croatian Parliament was sent by the Government by an act of 30 June 2004 on a proposal to comply with Article 159. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament shall adopt the proposed law by an urgent procedure. The tourism committee considered this Law on the basis of Article 140 of the Treaty. Rules of Procedure as an interested chest body. The Committee on Tourism supports the adoption of this Act in order to create conditions for the preservation of natural resources, seas and coasts that represent the basic assumptions and fundamental resources for the development of Croatian tourism. In particular, the debate highlighted and concluded that it should be taken to speed up the adoption of a plan base and criteria for establishing the tourist, acceptable potential of a protected coastal belt, which is prepared by the Ministry of Environmental Protection, Spatial Planning and Construction. And the Ministry of the Sea, tourism, transport and development. The opinion of the Committee is that the spatial plans of the protected coastal area and the plans of which are within that area must be based on scientific bases which determine the touristic acceptable potential of the coast. The members of the Committee are also of the opinion that, in accordance with the possibilities, the applicant should speed up and, to the greatest extent possible, shorten the planned deadlines for the adoption of spatial plans for the settlement of municipalities and cities, with the fact that that deadline should not be longer than one year from the date of entry into force of this Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-08-0.u16449	Thank you very much. We didn't get the report from the board, and I believe we'll get it in progress. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HSPa club will speak Mr. Pero Kovacevic and Mrs. Ruza Tomasic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-08-0.u16450	Mr. Vice President, mysteries, colleagues and colleagues. The HSPa club gives full support to Minister Marina Dropulic and these legal proposals. Because she's caught up with a big problem, we know what our situation is, it's more than alarming in the area of illegal construction and what the situation is with the spatial plans of the municipalities and the guards. And I have to say when we read out the draft laws coming from the ministers of the Ministerie Dropulucci, we get the impression that the other ministries are not the same government. Because the proposals of Ms. Dropulic's legal ministry are essentially well-placed and simulated and nomotechnically well-worked. And I think that the government, the other members of the government, should look up to each other and do the same, and then it will make the position of decision far easier for us. I said in the opening part, the situation is really alarming. And that is why we support these measures to prevent illegal construction. One part is already under way, and that is the taking of measures, the destruction of what was wrongly built. But I'm also saying within this ministry, it must also train its inspection services, and work in a way that prevents lawless construction from happening immediately in the beginning, and that's the most important thing and the most important thing in the world. Let's just say we take the situation, I think in the field of Zadar, in section four or five inspectors, which only tells himself enough about the situation with the staff. Because obviously we have to have enough inspectors to act preventively and not to allow illegal construction. And now let us enter only one part of the criteria of our condition in the territory of the Croatian Adriatic. We saw for ourselves that our coast was devastated. Everyone built what he wanted and how he wanted it. The blame for this lies in most of the municipalities and cities themselves. In fact, we only, last year, all the counties brought in their spatial plans, some brought in earlier, but only last year were all the spatial plans brought in. As far as municipalities and cities are concerned, according to my or our data, it's only 150 spatial plans. A number of them have been prepared by municipalities and cities but will not bring them. Why they won't bring them, it's a very interesting situation. They won't come out because they're more suited to what they're doing. The old spatial plans, which are back in 78, and then they go on a variant to change, they only make detailed plans, or the situation suits them. And these same municipalities and cities are that way of working, so they were selling construction sites we know about ourselves. They were selling construction sites and they told people and we're gonna sort it out with spatial plans, you're about to build. And they took what was a big mistake in the former assembly's assembly that was allowed by the lawless ones who had illegally built buildings so that they could connect electricity, water and all other things. They were interested in this part of taking communals. And now there's such a sitau who needs to be torn down. With that, I suggest and it's visible what the minister said, there's a difference between when it's actually a matter of social cases. This means that if it is a residential unit, a facility, a man whose holiday house is neither a holiday house, nor an apartment part or something else, but it is a man who has barely succeeded in making that part, and we know for ourselves what bureaucracy is in the pursuit of a building permit, so the other conditions are mixed between Croatia's forests and Croatia's water industry, each sets some conditions, bureaucracy makes its own and in those variants where man could achieve nothing has been achieved. We know for ourselves that, for example, municipalities and cities by sea suffer the sea to gain greater space. That's what some other powerful men do in a way, you know what the situation is. It is 15 to 20 meters away from the sea and thus it gets both the area and the construction site and everything else, and then in many municipalities and cities it was done under a variety of disguises and we have in the work concreteization of the Croatian coast. Tourists come to us to enjoy our sea, in the nature that God has given us and everything else, and then our leaders, meaning municipalities and cities, concreteize it by sea, and in the best parts they do the harbors, and we know what the situation is with the ports, to pollute the Adriatic and everything else, but nobody cares about it. And that's why we're giving this section real full support to the minister. With the fact that I have to say here that the HSP club immediately opposes Article 58(3) of the amendment and supplement the Construction Act in such a way that if someone came out 20% above the building permit that it could be tolerated, because that means in a certain way we still encourage such situations, and what our investors are and how it would go over the rule for them that they would always take advantage of them, so 20% would do more. We've had a variety of situations and today we get a building permit for four floors, and they make five floors. So this is the situation which has become normal in Croatia, and therefore in all these parts we give full support to the minister. The other thing is the same important thing about what I have to say, the Law on Spatial Planning, it is that municipalities and cities are now obliged to adopt spatial plans by 31 December of the year and we also support the solution to then go into sanctions against those municipalities and cities that this part does not make and normally to prevent illegal construction in all those cases. Because there's a situation next, that allows up the coast 10-15 meters from the coast of the municipality and cities sell construction sites and then come, large settlements are created apartment and other, and the issue of sewage is not resolved, and we know all how it ends, it ends in pollution of the sea. Thus, such or similar situations are many in the whole area. In particular, I say it is no longer so current in the area of Istria and this part of Primorje than it is more down in the area of central Dalmatia and southern Dalmatia without talking about islands. Therefore, you have our full support, and in the course of this, Mrs. Ruza will give concrete examples. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-08-0.u16451	Mrs. Ruza Tomasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-08-0.u16452	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Madam Minister, these changes have been complemented by a shift towards the introduction of order in construction. However, so far there have been regulations and laws, and the problem is not only that these regulations and laws did not meet the needs but rather in the fact that they were bypassing, playing, and most often completely ignored. That's what HSP sees the problem. The solution to the problem is to ensure the application of the rules and compliance with the law. Wild construction and universal devastation and usurpation of the Adriatic coast is a phenomenon that will not be resolved by amending the law no matter how well prepared it is, so it takes both a change in relations and a political will that we hope exists. In fact, a lot of interest conflicts in these issues, municipalities, cities, counties, local powers, domestic and foreign economic operators. There are cases especially on the islands, where while digging up the foundations for houses they built an entire plot in the sea and the plot is unfortunately legalized. I am talking especially about the island of Korčula where you will find from Lumbarda to Vela Luka in every place objects that have no building permit and have even entered the sea. So a mess that apparently the government favors all those who want to take advantage of opportunities that do not exist in organized countries. We therefore maintain, apart from amending laws that are good, more important to show the government's will to do whatever is necessary to ensure the application of the law and to protect the space that is the greatest wealth Croatia has. The beginning could be to draw a line with solid deadlines which are necessary to legalise what is possible according to the law and spatial plans, and to bring down everything that will not be possible, but without exceptions and regardless of who it is. During the season the collapse was stopped as well, but in autumn we expect a continuation with hope that action that is not only part of the promotion will be carried out until the end. The issue of legalization is the beginning of law enforcement, but it is necessary to take account of and distinguish facilities built out of necessity for family and facilities that are built with the purpose of achieving benefits, i.e. business purposes. The procedure and costs must be different. And in the end, we believe that monitoring with the existing structure of personnel and few inspectors is not possible to carry out quality as well as the law is well written. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-08-0.u16453	I thank Mrs. Ruži Tomasic. On behalf of the HNS club PGS, Ms. Alenka Košisa Chichin-Shain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-08-0.u16454	Dear Mr. Vice President, distinguished MPs and MPs and respected Madam Minister, State Secretary and others. The untouched beauty and cultural heritage of the entire region of the Adriatic coast and the island are potentially top European tourist destinations. It is so much more important for the economic sustainability of the coast that the development that monitors the tourism sector also includes the sustainability of the development of the environment and society by avoiding the degeneration of the environment through the visit of tourists themselves. This primarily includes increasing planning control from local authorities themselves, but also curbing negative trends in coastal concrete. In the absence of strategic commitment and plan-based approach in part, the construction of facilities by sea is based on individual projections of individual investors. The declarative sea and seashore will agree, the most valuable are economic and natural, but not the inexhaustible resources that the state must take systematic care of both in valorising the existing potential and in the planning sense where priorities are defined which the state wants to encourage. Space planning documents are key instruments at the disposal of the state in the management of its space. They define what, where and how can be built, and this is today the weakest link in the protection of the coastal area. The spatial plans of the coastal area either do not exist or are unarranged. It opens up a space of volunteerism, dims development on one side, and stimulates illegal construction and syphilic solutions on the other side. In the process of approaching the European Union, Croatia is rapidly entering a new phase of the development of the tourism industry with new investments in transport and other municipal infrastructure. On the market for relatively low land prices, there is strong pressure on domestic and foreign investment of capital in the construction of new tourist facilities and the trend will certainly increase with the very accession of the European Union, which is expected in 2007. And that is why we at the HNS PGS Club welcome the effort to access the amendments to the laws on spatial regulation specifically governing the making of common spatial plans for the arrangement of municipalities and cities on an island, with an emphasis on the possibility of mutual bargaining at the level of different units of local self-government and in terms of the applicability of this provision. Furthermore, we particularly accept where it is possible to draw up simpler spatial arrangements in the municipalities of more modest budgets, which are not planning stronger development, with the emphasis that no criteria are defined anywhere, which is a simpler form of plan. We particularly welcome that the law lays down a deadline for municipalities and cities to adopt spatial plans for the planning of municipalities and cities and alternative solutions through the county congregations if the local self-government council does not adopt a spatial plan within the legal period. We are witnessing that almost all county spatial plans have been adopted today but we are also witnessing that many municipalities and cities somewhere around 50th although there are produced and prepared spatial planning documents the same for various petty speculant personal reasons do not want to bring. Quality and adoption of a medium-term programme of measures to improve the situation in the area in which this Law is brought into line with the Law on the municipal economy, as well as the final definition of the procedure for issuing the copies set out in the detailed plan of arrangements with instructions on handling in cases where such a plan is contrary to the spatial plan i.e. The plan of the higher order. However, as a whole, the basic lack of this amendment and the addition of the Law on Spatial Planning is its purely restrictive character. The establishment of a coastal protection area, the areas of the sea, which cover all islands and within 1,000 metres of the horizontal projection from the coastal line in the mainland and 300 metres from the same line into the sea, also prohibits any construction if no urban planning has been adopted, with the exception of the infrastructure outside the construction area. For all spatial plans within that area or plans whose parts are intruding into that area, the Ministry shall issue consent. The deadlines laid down by the Ministry for the adoption of rules implementing the Law on Spatial Regulation of 30 or for the regulation referred to in Article 3 and Article 20 of 60 days shall be laid down, and the construction and issuing of local permits shall be prohibited until those Regulations have been adopted. These provisions, and in particular the provision that municipalities and cities are obliged to adopt spatial plans to regulate municipalities and cities by the end of 2005 at the latest, create a significant time moratorium on any legal building which can ultimately result in precisely negative effects and even more powerful expansions of illegal construction and not to say then all of those corruption effects which are then pressured by urbanists. These proposals, although we observe through the positive intention of the Ministry of Environmental Protection, Spatial Planning and Construction, are qualified as incomplete and what is even more terrifying is the economic and developmental complete... This remark does not go to the Ministry of Environmental Protection, it goes to the Ministry of Economy. As regards the Construction Act, any amendments and additions leading to the simplification and greater transparency of the process and the prevention of lawless construction are supported, and in this respect we welcome all the intentions of collecting consent, but note that in the adoption of the new Law, it is certainly necessary to take a preliminary attempt, with the prior agreement that other bodies should try to take this procedure into account one administrative procedure, so that local and construction permits would be adopted in one procedure. The very proposal for this law is a very important and complex law of broad application which can be read in practice only by lawyers, i.e. a large circle of people who are used by various investors, engineers, ordinary citizens who, for example, wish to legalise their construction and all other persons involved in the building-related procedures, will be difficult to serve such changes and additions. In view of the fact that the basic law has as many as 226 articles and that these amendments and additions have even 83 articles, the law should be as readable and transparent as possible in order to facilitate the application and enforcement of these articles, but it is evident that in the transitional and completed provisions whether it is knowingly or unconsciously omitted a provision authorising the Croatian Parliament's Legislative Committee to establish and issue a consolidated text. Next, we propose and give such amendments to the final draft of the law and add a new Article 82a, which reads: "The Committee on the Law of the Croatian Parliament is empowered to establish and issue a consolidated text of the Construction Act.". And some more concrete remarks on the Law itself. Article 3 The proposal concerning the amendment of Article 5(2), (3) and (4) provides for the establishment of a Building Committee set up by the Minister and provides for the right to compensation. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The proposal relating to the new Article 5a is intended for the minister to establish commissions as a kind of working group for the making of regulations and other tasks under the Ministry's order with the right to compensation. Such a proposal is assessed as completely unnecessary because the minister can always set up commissions and different working groups, which is always, almost always prescribed by the Ministry's Labour Regulation, and ask for assistance, opinion and recommendations from the profession, with adequate compensation for the persons performing the professional work. In fact, it is estimated that the Committee as a body that would in a certain way direct construction that the Committee is a seat in Parliament and, if necessary, should consider the establishment of such a Committee in the Croatian Parliament, along with these already existing and not as a working body established by the Minister under the Law, and such a committee as well as the Commission could then be foreseen by almost any other law. Article 11 This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The law requires them to have licensed contractors and the possibility of self-building alongside family houses from a simple building that an investor or a natural person can build on his own is expanding the circle of these buildings in such a way that citizens can build other buildings themselves up to 40 square meters of grossly developed area. However, it should be pointed out that the possibility of self-building is so far defined that citizens can only build simpler buildings, which can include smaller family houses, built from bricks, concretes, therefore built, so that the essence and restriction and was at the simplicity of the building rather than the size that would be limited to the number of squares, grossly developed surfaces. It is indisputable that the building up to 400 square meters can be of various purposes, and technically-technologically very complex and demanding in different respects from the mounting halls to the staticly very complex structures and technical and technological complex and expensive plants. Therefore, such a proposal extends the possibility of self-building to all buildings of up to 400 square meters, losing the essence of the current restrictions only to simpler buildings, which, without the involvement of an authorised contractor, could possibly have been carried out by the citizens themselves. This same argument relating to Article 12. The proposal relating to Article 41(3) of the Law, which stipulates that the head of works for these buildings up to 400 squares of the grossly developed area, may be a person with medium expertise, as well as a reference to Article 13. The proposal referred to in Article 42 shall apply from the date of entry into force of A law prescribed by the responsible person who runs the building. It is stressed that the generalization of buildings, i.e. the restriction of self-building only by the number of squares, is not quite appropriate because it is uncontestable that the buildings up to 400 squares of grossly developed surfaces can be very complex and technically-technologically very demanding, in this respect we have also given the amendment. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The law provides for compensation, i.e. a special administrative fee in respect of a specific regulation. For those investors who started construction without permission, now lawless builders. Since it is known that the administrative fee has not yet been prescribed, that is to say, if that special regulation has not been passed, the question is raised whether it would be opportunised to prescribe that fee with these amendments and amendments, namely to determine its height, which we also discussed on the board. The same fee is also mentioned in Article 80 of the Law, in the context that those persons who are required to issue a building permit do not have to pay that administrative fee by the end of this year. All with the aim of stimulating buildings, citizens to legalise lawlessly built buildings. However, considering the possible effects of this stimulation should be taken into account the scope of illegal construction, the height before the special administrative fee mentioned, and the time of adoption of this law in relation to what the investor must apply for the authorisation application under Article 88 of the Law and Article 24 of the proposal. In fact, if you really want to achieve some effect in terms of legalisation of illegal construction, it is estimated that the deadline by the end of the year is too short, given the times that citizens have and to first learn this legal possibility would be necessary for the start of a strong media campaign on this. They shall withdraw the financial effect of the procedure in order to then decide on legalisation and to result in locational conditions and all necessary documents, including the development of the main project. Therefore, if it is indeed to achieve an effect in terms of the legalisation of illegal construction, it would be necessary to determine first as soon as possible the amount of the special administrative fee mentioned, and to extend the deadline for the submission of applications for a building permit. Alternatively, it would be possible to set the end of the year as a deadline for submission of the so-called so-called period. only the principle requirement, as was the case in the sale of social dwellings with household rights, and after that, final requirements should be submitted within 6 months with all Annexes under Article 28 of the Law. Finally, what has not been amended by this law, and necessarily requires changes, has changed the way in which the principle permits for more technical and technologically complex or more expensive and expensive facilities are issued, as well as special attention to the reconstruction of objects, especially when they are objects of wider public interest, and reconstructions raise the standard of such objects. Also, Madam Minister, when the new law is passed, you shall certainly implement the intensity of uniting the administrative procedures of these two administrative procedures. But also consider the anti-cicimation of the possibility of introducing a public interest institute especially for municipal infrastructure facilities. We from the Croatian People's Party and the Primorje-Gorskin Alliance accept the proposals of these amendments and additions to both of these laws.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-08-0.u16455	Thank you very much, ma'am. Mr Ivan Čehok and Mr Mate Brletić will speak on behalf of the HSLS and DC Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-08-0.u16456	Mr. Vice President, Madam Minister, colleagues and colleagues. If one day Croatia creates its marketing identity, its brand, then the first mark of this marketing identity will certainly be the Croatian landscape. But unfortunately, because of all this that has been happening, not only in the past 10 years, but before that in space, that identity, that picture, that landscape will be seriously bitten, and we can no longer imagine the kind of coherent image that we could have had that we were more cautious in any case and that by any chance we had effective legal mechanisms to prevent, prevent savagery in construction that we could prevent from devastating and that we could somehow influence that landscape, that soil configuration, that natural appearance would be in harmony with part of human hands. Unfortunately, and most of all because of the fact that I have already mentioned in the morning part of the meeting of the Austrian-Hungarian tradition mostly because, unfortunately, we have left good customs in socialism, including the good instruments that once existed, when we were part of the civil world and civil Europe, we have practically missed one period, that is, one period of time allowed to be built without plans, to be built past plans and to be built past permits. I'll just mention that other transition states have no such difficulty in space as we do. Therefore, it is not savagery in construction, it is not an uncontrollable construction that may be less in the north, more in the south, or in Primorje and Dalmatia, because, for example, the Czech Republic, as well as the state in transition, has almost no difficulty with illegal construction. So, it's still a lack of administrative regulations, I'm not talking about the sea, I'm talking about general, not only unfortunately, there hasn't been an illegal construction at sea here today you can read in the paper that you're going to have to crash houses, so the housing here under Sljemen. Therefore, it is not just the sea, but other states that have not had similar difficulties in the sea, and even if you want one Romanian that has sea, it has not had such difficulties, it is also a country in transition. As far as I can remember, she was the only one left in Albania, and even the houses were running in the city parks. But it's not a country we'd like to compare to. So, what I'm saying is that this is not a consequence of the transition and that this is not the result of objective circumstances, as is the change in the order of the socialist one, now that these 10 years have not affected the reduction of illegal construction. So, first of all, this is about the fact that in the existing laws, we didn't have enough solid and efficient instruments and mechanisms to prevent it, and if we were trying to do it now, I agree here with colleagues who spoke thanks to the most elan and the ability and vision I would say to Ms. Minister and her group that prepared this law, we are trying practically to jump into that state. We would be happy at the HSLS and DC Club if we had come out with brand new laws, and we also covered the Law on the municipal economy in this package, because most countries have one of the most effective mechanisms to prevent illegal construction, which is precisely the mechanism that comes out of the Law on the Communist Economy. So it's not possible to build anything there if you're not in any way connected to the public transport area, and if you don't have all the necessary consent, or if you don't have all the necessary connections of the municipal infrastructure to the parcel border. If you don't have it, anywhere in Austria, Germany, you can't even start building, or you can't even think about it, no matter what the state of the spatial plans are, how old they are, how fresh they are, how these permits come out. If you don't have that essential condition, you can't even start building. Therefore, it is something that needs to be regulated by the Law on the municipal economy, and I think it would be better if we had all these three laws in the package and that they were new laws. What may seem a little unusual to us is this quantitative provision that when it comes to coastal areas, the land belt is protected in the breadth of a thousand feet [1,000 m]. This will practically lead to the fact that some islands will not be able to operate at all because some islands are not even 1,000 feet [1,000 m] wide. I will mention the example of the island of Silba which I do not know exactly how wide the entire island is but it will practically mean that we will cover the entire surface of the island and the sea which, of course, makes it a little bit more than that to call it an unusual proposal but I am fully aware that somewhere it had to be determined that width. And what I unfortunately feel is not sufficiently explained, which is what the coastal line means, given the fact that the coastal line is not defined by the Law on Spatial Planning, and there is no such definition in the Law on Maritime Good and Seaports as far as I know it. Let someone correct me if, but what I at least managed to verify has no such definition, so it could happen that someone malicious or today, again tomorrow, someone who wants to abuse this inaccurate provision is beginning to interpret in their own way or that we may come up with a dispute about what really means the width of the protected belt. As with colleagues from the HNS, it also seems to us that a year and a half of the moratorium to which it will be necessary to pass the laws on spatial planning, or spatial plans, can actually lead to a too long moratorium, and we also think that the units of local self-government should have been committed and that they have brought in all necessary documents earlier. Space plans... Let's say when it comes to cities, I think it can be brought before, because most often when it comes to local self-government, it is not always necessary to put everything on local self-government and to seek guilt in local self-government because, most often, those who block the adoption of such spatial plans in local self-government are not the units of an institution in local self-government itself, but the most common state institutions, so I will only mention the example of Varazdin where it is difficult to bring the GUP, for three years we have been building it precisely because of the Croatian railways, or one state institution that we cannot influence. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In my view, therefore, the ministry should, in the new bill of law, play a certain arbitration role or an intermediate role in order to prevent the spatial plans of local self-government units from being adopted because they are being prevented or completely blocked by state institutions. So, all in all, we will support the adoption of these two laws. We believe, however, that they are restrictively introducing mechanisms to prevent wild construction, but we also expect the ministry to put before us three quite new laws at the most recently, so on spatial planning and on construction, and on the Law on the Communist Economy, and to simplify the important construction process, or to introduce mechanisms that will remove any possibility of illegal construction.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-08-0.u16457	Thank you very much, dear fellow Czecho. Corrections to an incorrect quote. First, correcting the incorrect allegations, the president of the parliament thus introduced the rule and then we will proceed with time on behalf of the club, Col. Brletic. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So, the first correction to the incorrect quote is the esteemed colleague of Markov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-08-0.u16458	Thank you very much. counterpart Chehok said that given the new positions in terms of coastal and island protection, there will be nowhere to be built and especially not on islands for reasons that most of the island will almost fall on the other side of the area. I'm correcting that quote, I hope I'm correcting it. I read that it will not be built where there are no proper documents of spatial order, spatial plan, urban plan. Where such documents exist and where the condition is arranged that they will of course be able to be built according to that spatial plan.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-08-0.u16459	This isn't exactly a correction. A colleague of Korenik, a correction of an incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-08-0.u16460	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. It is an incorrect claim that there were no instruments in the laws so far to prevent wild construction. More specifically, there was not enough political will and there was no financial means to do so. And another incorrect allegation is incorrect that GUP cannot be brought to Varazdin because of Croatian railways. It is indisputable that the state infrastructure in spatial plans has a priority and if something wants to change in that case, it should and pay for the one seeking a change.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-08-0.u16461	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, colleague of the Czech Republic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-08-0.u16462	First of all, I wasn't talking about the fact that it wasn't instruments so far, it was about not being effective enough. And this is another truth, it is not brought about by the Croatian Railways, which I guess I know more about than my colleagues in Korenika since I am the mayor.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-08-0.u16463	Well, I'm not saying that you don't know, a colleague about that question any more, but it wasn't a violation of the Rules of Procedure because you didn't say what article, what item, or whatever it is. Oh, come on, buddy, the Injuring Institute of the Rules of Procedure is a very serious institute. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Therefore, use it when you have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, so do not abuse it because it is a bad example. We're continuing the debate. Continued debate on behalf of Club HSLS and DC respected counterpart Brletic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-08-0.u16464	Mr. Vice President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! I believe that the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Spatial Regulation that we have received for consideration has come at the right time and will contribute to the reduction of illegal construction, in particular to the reduction of coastal devastation. The introduction of a protection belt of a thousand metres from the coastal line and a sea belt of 300 metres from the coastal line is commendable because the coast is our greatest wealth and we should not allow it to be destroyed. We are witnessing problems of illegal construction that has taken place in recent years. It is also commendable that the draft law, amendments and additions to the Law on spatial regulation introduces the obligation to obtain the consent of the Ministry of Protection and the environment, spatial arrangement and construction for the adoption of spatial plans and plans whose works are within that protective band. I think it's about Article 3. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Spatial Editing of the Publishing of the Ministry of Professional Affairs of Spatial Arrangements to Legal Persons, or authorised architects, a good move that will increase the number of those who can make spatial plans. I believe that this would make the cost of creating spatial plans that would make the units of local self-government more moderate in the budget. It is commendable in connection with Article 9 of the adoption of spatial plans for national parks, nature parks and areas of special features by a specific strategy and program of the spatial arrangement of the Republic of Croatia, which brought together the Croatian Assembly, which will protect our natural beauty. As regards Article 14, how and in what way the municipalities will determine which spatial plans of reduced content can be adopted and what will be the criterion for determining such municipalities, whether the number of inhabitants, areas covering, geographical location or budget of the municipality will be. To praise the provision of Article 16 of the proposal is also related to the creation of an idea solution for your own needs, for which an idea solution can be made under current law by a graduate architect of architecture or construction or engineer with a professional examination. Now the engineer will be able to do it without an expert exam. In the context of Article 20, the uncertainty is related to the parcel of building land within the boundaries of the construction area and building land outside the borders of that area, the application of technologies and what it specifically means. Because, for example, in the urban plan, urban planning is a term of the construction area's borders and the boundaries of the plan. So all that's within the building area's borders is building land. That's it. The plan provides for a certain purpose and for all that beyond the borders, but within the scope of the plan is not a building area but for the purpose represents green and agricultural areas. Which is why so often mentioned in the public and announced removal of the local authorisation has not been done. In addition, in the Law on the Construction of the National No. 175 through 0.3, there is no mention of the location permit, but of the location conditions. It has recently entered into force since 1 July 2004 to lay down a procedure in a space that does not require a location permit "National Journal" No. 86/04. which reintroduces the obligation to issue local permits for a family home where there is no detailed urban plan. We know there are few of those and municipalities and cities that have come up with spatial plans. Not to mention detailed plans. Introducing a local permit, the family houses built in such municipalities and cities will require more funding from investors because we know that projects as ideas solutions are who and the main implementation projects are a larger item in each, in each investor. And to hope that in such places, illegal construction will continue. It is important to understand both municipalities and cities that there is often no money for spatial plans. But it is also important to understand individuals living in such places and to see how it helps. Whether the above-mentioned Regulation will be re-changed and after the adoption of these amendments to the Spatial Editing Act. The DC and HSLS club supports these two laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-08-0.u16465	Thank you, dear colleague. It's on behalf of the HSS Club, dear colleague Zlatko Tomcic. Here's your esteemed colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-08-0.u16466	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam Minister, Madam Assistant. This legislative area that we are talking about today has no doubt that it is crucial for the possibility of the country's systematic development on both micro and macro-planned terms. And each development is most often associated with touching space, or building. This legislative area that we are talking about today is closely related to the preservation and rational "consumption" under the quotes of space. The space regardless of the name it bears is a national resource, even if it is the holder of ownership, private or state property. In addition to this Law on Spatial Planning and Construction, the assumptions and regulation of the relationship around and with the building land were important for what we were talking about earlier this afternoon. Therefore, it is important to define and coordinate the ownership relations of the existing situation but the defined procedures for changing ownership relations, not only to talk about market relations but to talk about changing ownership relations in terms of supporting the realisation of the system of space management. Are we going to call it one day as is said today in the Law on Building Land, the Law on Urabar Compassation or something else, but we simply need that whole set of Construction Act, the Law on Spatial Planning and some Law on Land, the Ministry will certainly think about and transform the land, it is actually a fundamental assumption of the orderly functioning of the entire system. The space management system in the operational sense depends primarily on: under 1st state of spatial planning documentation, the way of definition, the legal definition of procedures and administrative procedures, whether at one or two degrees, whether with a location permit, with a building permit or otherwise, and depends therefore on land ownership and possible transformation procedures. If this system does not work, then the system of plan-based spatial documentation, procedures for issuing building permits and land relations. If this system does not work, there is no doubt that the development has slowed down or that riots and illegal construction are provoked, i.e. without the law in a simple way. And of course there's no doubt that it's jeopardizing national interests, that it's jeopardizing important resources. Today we have at least two examples, "good" under quotes, good in terms of this illustration, which means an undefined system to the end. It is the Adriatic coast and it is if nothing else in the city of Zagreb is a sub-semen zone, probably other major cities have similar problems. However, to be clear, this phenomenon is not since yesterday, and this phenomenon is not any speciality of the Republic of Croatia. Some countries have been through this before, some later. The management of space, or the availability of land or the creation of building land has always been, in fact, an area where they sought quick, easy and large profits. Whether it's a transformation of forest and agricultural land, into construction, regardless of whether it's a data abuse in the stage of preparation of spatial plans, when spatial planners signal someone to prepare it here and there and then buy cheap building land that one day when they enter the framework of a plan-based spatial procedure then becomes multiple expensive. Whether or not it is about adapting plans to existing landowners, whether or not it is about false interpretations of spatial plans in issuing a local authorisation. So the possibility of various different manipulations precisely in this area is extremely high. Those who deal with this area know that in the history of land transformation problems in building land which is certainly more attractive if it is located in more attractive areas was a whole series and sarcastic but also a situation that is very strict punishment. I remember a story when in a large, decorated country, one of the owners of the protected forest watered oil. Since all the trees had dried up, it could no longer have been a protected area, the clear thing was that it had been given permission very quickly, the transformation of this protected forest area into building land. However, people came to their senses, and after many years, they did examine what was involved and of course found traces of oil derivatives in the land. Of course his land was taken from him, of course he was severely punished, etc., this is just an illustration of how very lush imaginations are when it comes to easy and fast profits on urbanization to tell me or to bring land to the point that while it's agricultural, while the forest actually has a much smaller value. They came up with people, so after many years, they went and questioned what was going on and of course they found traces of oil derivatives in the land. Of course his land was taken from him, of course he was severely punished, etc., this is just an illustration of how very lush imaginations are when it comes to easy and fast profits on urbanization to tell me or to bring land to the point that while it's agricultural, while the forest actually has a much smaller value. So it's also logical that only built systems in terms of spatial planning documentation, licensing procedures, land availability, are actually a guarantee that there will be no abuse in this area. And not built systems actually guarantee, provoking that abuses are actually going to happen. What's the situation with us? I have no doubt that the situation with spatial planning documentation is very bad. I believe that the Law on Spatial Planning, which was adopted in 1994, was a good basis and even very well adapted to the assumed possibilities of regional and local self-government units to produce spatial planning documentation by a certain deadline. Unfortunately, she was very late. As far as I know, I don't believe I'm making much of a mistake, but only last year have all the county spatial plans been drawn up. Of course, the assumption of creating spatial plans for the arrangement of municipalities and cities is county plans and then these plans are an assumption of the following plans and of course we come very often and that we have actually come into a situation that a large part of the units of local self-government does not have adequate spatial planning documentation that can be conducted orderly procedures for issuing local and construction permits. These two laws that we are talking about today, so the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Spatial Planning and the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Construction Act, I am actually only experiencing as a first step in the complete settlement of the situation in this area. It is evident that this moment is still a major mess. It is evident that we have an abnormally large number of illegal objects and I repeat, it is not the sin of this government, it is not the sin of the previous government, it is not just the sin of the government before that. It is simply a process that is in Croatia for a variety of reasons and also for the transition of social property into private property takes an exceptional, extremely long time. And this undefined situation, as I said, is actually provoking and advocacy in the units of local self-government, provoking local self-government and regional self-government itself, provoking and inspection, provoking and entrepreneurs, and in fact no one here has been amnested by any, some sins in this whole column. If what Ms. Minister said will be true, we welcome it very quickly, because we hold that the current concept that we had, in particular, with two administrative procedures to get to the right of construction, two administrative procedures in which all the hard work of interviewing and the rights to the insight of interested parties is actually carried out, especially the neighbours, is something that swallows time, something that can be abused and kept in a single procedure or if you choose two procedures, in one procedure all legal executions must be completed, and then at a higher level of time, it is something that can be done, which can be abused and kept fully, completely clean. Assuming that there will continue to be a local authorisation as a separate act, I believe that within the framework of the local authorisation all issues must be cleared, all options of appeal and that the local authorisation for interested parties must be a final act, and actually the building permit is then an upgrade, the finalisation of the right to build a specific, specific facility. This has a kind of entrepreneurial logic. An interested entrepreneur or owner of a family home or any other facility should be allowed to trip eventually at the time when there are small costs. Don't wait for the high cost of doing geomechanical research, making major projects, eventually getting into making some more costs and so on. As long as the total costs of investors are at a low level of that moment, all opportunities should be completed to prevent the investor from entering, entering the business. In that sense, I suppose that the solutions that we have in these two laws will, in particular, be made more flexible after this debate. It's simply a matter of the fact that it's very questionable, if we're going to stay with such rigorous solutions, it's very questionable who can do the job. It is very questionable how much capacity, mountaineering capacity, urban design in the Republic of Croatia. I'm not sure that without reaching out for foreign planners, domestic urbanists can do it. If we're going to stay with some extremely short deadlines. I will propose, in the context of my concrete debate, and let some small modifications to your law, but I think that must be done, must be taken into account. One of the reasons why we don't have spatial-planned documentation today is absolutely certain, one of the reasons is certainly because there is one particular resistance in local self-government units. There's speculation and manipulation, there's a lack of money, but there's a capacity deficit that I can make. These two laws are restrictive, there's no doubt about it. They are, but regardless of how restrictive they are, they are necessary and if we take this restriction as a first step in fact and if we get within 6, 7 or 8 months complete laws with simplified procedures, with procedures that will guarantee local self-government units a simpler, simpler possibility of reaching spatial-planned documentation, then we will only be able to begin to say that we have created circumstances in which one will tend to go, to go into illegal construction. No matter what the law is restrictive he is necessary, but no matter what he is good he has certainly certain shortcomings. So let me just warn you of a few things that the HSS Club would like to change in these two laws simply because there are certain illogicalities. So let's start with the Law of Spatial Planning. Article 20 speaks of land parceling within the boundaries of construction land. Article 21 speaks of the parceling of already built building land, and we hold that in this column, whether Articles 20 or 21 lacks a serious provision that is missing today and which is very often abused. We simply want to say that there is manipulation of the expansion of construction plots in the building zone when they have a square below some desired size of investors. And we're actually proposing the next amendment. It is not permitted to land construction land outside the construction area to increase the parcel within the construction area if it has a minimal square of a given spatial plan. What's really going on? The gentleman has a plot of 600 squares that is minimal to the spatial plan. Around it are family houses of 300 square meters, which satisfys some 30% of the BRP, these are ways of calculating the possible size of the building, but it would not want a house of 300 squares. He'd like a apartment building with 20 apartments with 2,000 square meters. Up to him is the border of the green belt, so there's some kind of zone protected, his property. He finds a way to expand his basic building plot by another 1,000 squares and then more bases to calculate the size of possible construction are not its basic 600 squares but 1600 squares, so he gets the right to build a house of 1000 squares on that small plot that he objectively endures, and I don't know how many squares. It happens regularly. The sub-Slemenic zone in Zagreb is full of such, full of such cases that I do not talk about other speculations in order to avoid, avoid the right of neighbours or parties to, in the process, to see the main project then the plot artificially splits with roads to avoid even having neighbors. So these are records of manipulations that to be clearly legalized very often through a locational permit and through certificates from the competent offices for issuing a building permit. Your provision states: “The plot of land within the boundaries of the construction area and the plotting of building land beyond the borders of that area can only be implemented in accordance with the location permit, the detailed plan of the arrangement or the solution referred to in Article 43 of this Article.” I agree with the detailed plan of the arrangement, I agree with Article 43a) but I do not agree with the location permit. Local permits are the most common and that actually allow for illegal parceling and increasing parcels. We at the HSS Club will insist on this article. We also have a comment on Article 23, so this is the key article of the Law on Spatial Planning that introduces the moratorium in a protected coastal belt in its own way. Paragraph 3 states: “In the protected coastal belt cannot be built unless an urban planning has been adopted except for infrastructure facilities and so on.” We propose that the final provisions of this paragraph, that it remain unchanged, but that in the final provisions of this paragraph, let's say six months should be delayed for a very simple reason for those units of local self-government that have worked neatly so far to allow them time to adopt urban plans. Excuse me, is it 15 or 20 minutes? As far as the Construction Act is concerned, we have the same few amendments to Article 22. We oppose the introduction of 2 degrees of construction permit, power and final building permit. We can only be built on the basis of a powerful building permit. A final building permit as an institution where an investor will choose whether to take the risk of acting on it or not is simply unacceptable to us. We're suggesting that this possibility be abolished. When you have a building permit, when you don't have a building permit, don't build it. It's simply something that compromises the security of the legal system. Article 24. We propose another indent to introduce the concept of a local permit or a copy of a detailed arrangement plan as a prerequisite for, as a contribution to the issue of a building permit. In Article 29, we also propose to delete the paragraph 1 because we hold that the erasure of paragraph 2 in Article 95, in the sense of the obligation of the body issuing the building permits to deliver the notice to the parties, to delete it, that it is in some way bringing these parties into a very inferior situation that a person can simply miss the notice in the municipality, that he may fail to notice on the plot notice because he simply lives, lives in another city. And the moment the proceedings are brought down to one administrative procedure, then I think that, however, they have to stay, that there must be a written notice to be delivered to the parties. It is good that the Committee is given this amendment to Article 58, because allowing the construction of 20% more than a building permit would actually be legalizing illegal construction, which would be very bad and therefore it is good that we have already downloaded it on the Committee. About these amendments I am ready and directly a little, a little talk, a little more detail. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-08-0.u16467	Thank you, dear colleague Tomcic. It is on behalf of the SDP Club, dear colleague Linic. Here you go, buddy. Excuse me, correcting the inaccuracies of my colleague Tomljanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-08-0.u16468	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. It is an incorrect allegation that an esteemed fellow representative that the finality of the building permit compromises the functioning of the legal system. On the contrary. The finality in terms of the possibility of making a complaint to the Administrative Court guarantees additional legal certainty that the law, and the power of authorisation, will therefore be settled in both the administrative procedure and ultimately by one verdict regardless of the dispute of full jurisdiction, so the matter is properly resolved. Thank you. ... [[/The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-08-0.u16469	Okay, but don't throw it out of the bench. A colleague, Linic, has a word on behalf of the SDP club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-08-0.u16470	Mr. Vice President, Minister, colleagues and colleagues. The SDP club will support both the bill and the other. It is evident that the situation in the area is also the reason for the urgent procedure, as well as a number of restrictive articles and provisions of these draft laws. The situation in the space shows that we cannot be satisfied with neither the legislation nor the executive government, but we cannot be satisfied with the behaviour of units of local and regional self-government. Neither our citizens nor our businessmen. It is evident that we have all contributed together to this state of affairs in space. And the biggest tragedy is that the enormous value of the Republic of Croatia means the space is devastated by me, I'd say, the economics and the citizens, to the executive authority who didn't find the right way to process all those who sinned into that greatest value of ours. To establish that in the last few decades we have not been responsible for space, become aware of the facts of this space will be interesting for the citizens of Europe and the business world of Europe and we are essentially at the threshold of that Europe then it is safe and necessary to intervene with such laws, in order to somehow try to restore the seriousness and responsibility of all participants in solving or perhaps better put into change of behaviour in space. What are restrictive measures when we talk about the law, amendments and additions to the law on spatial regulation? Well, I'm sure they're restrictions on the independence and rights of local self-government units. The units of local and regional self-government had the right and their greatest right as the original law of the Law on Local Self-Government is the management of space. These legal decisions limit this right significantly. The limitation is due to the fact that in certain parts of the space they will have to obtain the consent of the central government but also the use of this space without quality planning documentation will not be impossible. in some ways, when we say that the use of space without planning documentation will not be possible, it also means redistributing their budgets and their incomes. Was that necessary? Surely if we look at the justification for the draft law given to us by the ministry, we see that for 10 years there has been no investment in spatial documents, there has been no quality investment. Local self-government units have slowed down to understand their responsibility to enter and lie about the funds of local budgets in spatial documentation. That is exactly why lack of spatial documentation could have led to a witness to the deviant behaviours of both businessmen and citizens. Now the question is, how much can be found in local self-government units to invest in this spatial documentation and, of course, the most important thing, we are all interested in economic expansion, at a faster growth rate, for revenues from economic activities, and there will be no reason why we will invest for at least two years next year in making the necessary documentation. It is also worth pointing out here that the Minister's proposal for the Government to bring its ruede on the behaviour in these areas in the coming period not to bring about a complete suspension of economic activity, and investment in municipalities and cities along the coast and on islands. But it is evident that the central government, because of this state of space, because of the lack of activity of the local self-government units, was forced to propose a restriction on their rights and such legal provisions that we have before us. On behalf of the club, we really propose to the Ministry in the budget for the next year osgiura as much as possible to help units of local self-government, since the area of the protected coastal belt will now be very important and evident that this will significantly increase the budget expenditure of the unit of local self-government over the next two years. And we are aware that the problem of how in the one-year budget is secured and so significant amounts of funds. And there is an undisputed problem that will come up whether we have enough expertise and expertise to make those spatial plans quality. And so the provisions of the law that are before us that speaks and about the responsibility of this profession are also very important. Because it simply has to be sanctioned by all those who are irresponsiblely aware to set up such plans that are harmful to the space for which the spatial plan is brought. The remaining problem will be given with legislation to these laws which are now restrictive to achieve objectives, and the goal is how to have greater discipline in space. How to have more responsibility in space. It may be necessary to make it very clear that we are still afraid at the SDP club that the goal will not be achieved. Why? Because it is evident when we remember the failures in privatisation, access to privatisation where privatisation has occurred not because the economic operator develops to create jobs by privatising the economic operator. TO try to raise economic activity in the Republic of Croatia, rather than in many privatisation procedures to ensure real estate. In order to ensure ownership of real estate. Even all the procedures that followed after privatisation showed closure of activities, relaxation of workers, and, of course, the most important approach to real estate traffic. The traffic of real estate that then slowly turns into everything we didn't want in space. This means that we have deviating behaviours, that even with entrepreneurs we haven't always had proper access to their entrepreneurial activity, and that the executive government needs far more rigorous treatment and monitoring of all those who obviously wish for profit, obviously for fast and short earnings do not want to keep space, they do not want to develop an economic activity that is important for job creation. And I believe that in these six months, the ministry has shown that these changes follow the different behaviour of the executive, strict inspections, very clear approaches where irresponsible spaces must be shown, irresponsible individuals will be sanctioned. And if we remember, new amendments to the Penal Code which speak of the criminal responsibility of those who do not behave in accordance with the laws. It is therefore evident that the change of legislative legislation itself, the very change of behaviour by a legislator who is trying to create a framework of responsibility in a space without an executive authority that has to be even more active, which simply works that have started over the last six months must be energetic and I would say so long until all those in the space who have not acted properly are sanctioned. When we talk about sanctioning this means destroying objects that cannot fit and which are at the expense of space or, of course, the fitting of objects if possible, according to the plans and the possibilities of obtaining building and use permits, fit them in and naturally sanction them with penalties because it is a way to show very clearly that the executive authority will also be the one who will do everything to make citizens and entrepreneurs responsible for the space. If such behaviour is in the next two it is evident that these changes will now have their full effect and only I would say the very energetic work of the executive authority can ensure and implement the existing law. It is evident that this will also bring a lot of costs and units to local self-government, a lot of costs for the central cash register, but of course damage and investors who have not proven responsible for the documents, responsible for the space. It's a question of whether it's a shame for society. The answer isn't. It's not. It's basically sanctioning the wounds in the space that we've made possible by our behaviour so far and which wounds really need to be healed. I believe that joint changes in laws and a very strong executive authority that will realise these activities will finally improve the situation in space, and that is so necessary for us to send a message to the world that whoever comes with speculative intentions will not be able to continue devasting space so easily, and those who come with intent, fighting for a job, fighting for the achievement of plans and programmes and units of local and regional self-government and state are welcome in the Republic of Croatia. Perhaps, in the end, only two or three comments related to concrete proposals on the proposed laws. The SDP also considers that Article 58 would be the case. The law amending and supplementing the Construction Act should be corrected and no derogations should be allowed. Why? If we say that these are restrictive laws, that limit the behaviour of local self-government, the rights of local self-government, then investors should also be completely restricted to any freedom in the realisation of construction in relation to the building permit. You don't have to give any right, no options, no deviations. Why? Too many wounds, too many indiscipline in space. Perhaps now a restrictive measure, but the moment we sanction the situation, it is possible to regulate it differently, but at this point the position and thinking of the SDP is also that we should be very hard to allow again the spray of investors with power and deviating behaviour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-08-0.u16471	Thank you, dear colleague Linic. It's on behalf of the HDZ Club, dear colleague Marko Shirac. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-08-0.u16472	Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Let me first refer to the Law on Spatial Planning on behalf of the HDZ Club. The space of the Republic of Croatia, because of its exceptional value, beauty and regional diversity, is particularly worth national good, so it must be managed, managed and protected with special care. Systemic concern about space, its planning and the arrangement are inseparable from overall economic development. All social structures must be involved in the process of solving the problem of space, with a significant role for citizens and the public. Although the Republic of Croatia has a long tradition of planning the arrangements for space and the environment and the laws governing the management, management and protection of national space and the environment, we still need to determine that the last few years of space management have run out of control. Such a situation is inadmissible and must be changed using all available means of the rule of law, including preventive action on the source of the problem. The analysis of the documents on the monitoring of the situation in space, the documents on the spatial arrangement of legal and judicial practice of the competent ministry found that in certain areas of the Republic of Croatia, space is being unrealized and threatened. Especially difficult and complex is the coastal area of the Adriatic Sea. In the absence of strategic commitment and plan-based approach on the part of the wild concreteisation of the coast, the stychial construction of buildings by sea by individual projects of investors for sale and acquisition of profits. Some units of local self-government covered large areas of land intended for construction of buildings by not looking at their facilities and municipal equipment, so scattered and syphilic construction takes place on these land. Some units of local self-government do not have the means to adopt spatial plans, and in their areas there is also the construction of Styria. On certain islands, units of local self-government are unable to reconcile common interests in the use of sea, seashore, and wider coastal areas and islands. In the suburban areas of large cities, and in protected areas there are great pressures on the reuse of land. Irregular construction here took a big swing. Urban reconstruction and modernisation of space are not used in built areas of cities and settlements. In addition, during the application of the Law on Spatial Planning, it has been observed that certain provisions of that Act need to be amended or completed in order to implement them effectively. Allow me to present our views on the most important solutions proposed in certain articles of this Law. The performance of spatial planning professional affairs is a complex and responsible job for which appropriate knowledge and work experience is needed, and therefore we consider it a good solution given by the provisions of Article 3 of this Act which prescribe the obligation to obtain the consent of the Minister for the performance of these tasks but the right of the Minister to withdraw that consent. In so far, the procedures for the production and adoption of spatial order documents brought by the congregations of the counties, the Government or the Parliament have shown the necessary advice for the country's spatial arrangement to expand the part-time work. This was done by the Proposer and by the provisions of Article 4 in such a way that the programme of work of the Council adopted by the Government can be extended in part by the work of the Council. On the situation in the area, the competent authorities have drawn up a two-year report on the basis of a two-year programme of measures to improve the situation in space. In practice, it has been shown that there is no need every two years to draw up a report on the situation in space, but to do so every 4 years and, in the event of an exceptional need to amend the programme of measures, it is possible to do so for a two-year period. Article 11 of this Act provides for the construction and adoption of common spatial plans for islands with two or more units of local self-government. In the event that these units of local self-government do not adopt a common spatial plan within the prescribed deadline, it will be adopted by the County Assembly. Municipalities with modest financial resources which are unable to meet the financial obligations for the development of spatial plans will be able to do so in the next period, unless more significant developments are planned in their area, with reduced content, this is proposed and settled in Article 14. So far, the location permit has been an administrative act, at which any appeal may be made, and after the appeal procedure has been completed, the administrative dispute has been initiated. In some cases, the procedure lasted very long, several years. The provisions of Article 15 of this Act shall put an end to the administrative act, but the dissatisfied party shall be able to initiate the administrative dispute, thereby significantly speeding up the preparation procedure for the issue of a building permit. For a request in the space planned to be carried out in the area for which a detailed plan of arrangements has been adopted, the competent office shall be obliged to issue a copy of that plan to the applicant. This is an act against which there is no possibility of an appeal or administrative dispute, only in the event of a non-compliance of a detailed plan of arrangement with the spatial arrangement documents of the wider area, the competent office shall refuse, under the provisions of Article 19, the application for a copy and the applicant to submit the application for a local authorisation. In order to protect the coastal area of the Adriatic Sea and its intended, sustainable and economically efficient use of the new Article 45a, the proposal for a law is established a protected coastal area declared to be of particular interest to the Republic of Croatia. It also lays down the basic rules for the adoption of prosor plans and construction in those areas, and lays down deadlines for the Government and the Ministry for the adoption of rules on the regulation and protection of that area. The protection of the coastal area of the HDZ Representatives Club particularly welcomes it. In the previous implementation of the law, inspectors have found irregularities or irregularities in the process of adopting these documents and have reported to the competent units of local self-government, in most cases they have been deafened to this warning, the applicant has removed these difficulties in such a way that the provisions of Article 26 of the inspectors' mandate to order the solution to remove irregularities or illegality in the documents of spatial order. If the unit of local self-government fails to act on a solution, the inspectors will ask the competent central authorities of the state administration to take a decision to suspend the application of the spatial arrangement document and to take appropriate measures. Finally, the protection of national space must be carried out by all means available, including misdemeanours and appropriate penalties. The proposal proposed a significant increase in the penalties we consider an appropriate solution to Articles 29 to 34. The Croatian Democratic Community MPs' club supports the adoption of the Law on Spatial Planning. Now allow me to look into the draft law on amendments and additions to the Construction Act. Only 6 months have passed since the Construction Act was in force to see that certain provisions of the Law are not enforceable in practice and some are needlessly difficult to implement the prescribed procedures for the issue of acts. The consequences of such a situation would be evident in slowing down or stopping, investing in the area of construction, as well as in increasing illegal construction. Amendments to the Construction Act will remove the reasons why certain provisions of this Act are not enforceable, ensuring conditions for its rapid, effective uniform application, which will increase the legal security of entities participating in the construction process. The basic condition for achieving the objectives set is to ensure uniform application of the Construction Act by all bodies of the state administration, the bodies of the units of local self-government and local self-government and legal persons with public authority in the implementation of this Act, which is a very serious issue. Whoever deals with construction is very well aware that when we pass the Law that it takes a very long time until he gets to our county offices and those who work on these jobs, because first they need to get used to and learn how to work. This can be achieved in a manner prescribed by the provisions of Article 4 authorising the Minister to take the necessary measures to implement this Act. In practice so far, it has been observed that the largest number of buildings are built by citizens. Most of these are family homes simply built by construction that citizens solve their housing issues. Most citizens do not know the process of obtaining building permits, nor are they aware that the work could be done by an authorised architecture engineer with the appropriate compensation. In addition, citizens and other investors in the process of obtaining a building permit have difficulties resulting from the long-term collection of various certificates, opinions and on the compliance of a major or idea project with the provisions of specific laws that they themselves must obtain, and therefore it is necessary to increase the responsibility of all persons registered for the design activity. The Proposer of the Law has also done so in a way that Article 16 of this Law ensures greater protection of investor rights by introducing a sound responsibility for legal and natural persons registered for the activities of design and supervision. Which wasn't the case until now. Only engineers responded, and legal persons were not required to answer by law for the actions of their own people. The construction of the facilities is responsible for the work, and for the implementation of which the relevant expertise and practice is required, and the professional examination passed. Obligations of persons participating in construction operations for every 4 years again take an expert exam, we consider unnecessary and harmful, as consistent application of these provisions would lead to a slowdown or suspension of investment in the area of construction. We therefore support the provisions of Article 61(4) of that Law to be deleted. The provisions of Article 19 of this Law reduce the prescribed content of the main project of the family house, the simple construction and main project for the reconstruction and adaptation of the building without prejudice to the essential requirements for construction. The number of certificates and opinions and other documents to be submitted in the application for a building permit or a principle permit has been reduced. Simplification of the process of collecting certificates and opinions on compliance of the main, i.e. an idea project with the provisions of a specific law, the way in which these certificates are obtained by the construction body under official duty. So, citizens don't get that anymore. For simple buildings, the certificate no longer needs to be obtained. In the issue of a building permit for construction of buildings invested by the Republic of Croatia or by majority-owned companies, especially when it comes to the construction of large infrastructure buildings, whose route crosses the land of a larger number of owners, special difficulties arise in obtaining the usual no permit for building rights. These difficulties were removed by the provisions of Article 25 in such a way as to prove that the investor has the right to build on certain... replaces the decision of the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the determination of public interest or by calling for a provision of legislation which determines the interest of the Republic of Croatia in the construction of buildings for which the authorisation has been requested. [[/the speaker doesn't understand.]] In the process of issuing a building permit, all interested parties must be allowed to participate in the procedure. Calling parties for... in the process, the issue of a building permit for the construction of large infrastructure facilities is a particular problem, and it is ensured by a public invitation published in public press or other means of public communication. [[/the speaker doesn't understand.]] And now a few more words about building a complex building. He, usually of great importance, affects the space in which it is built. In addition to investors, units of local self-government in which a complex building is intended to be built must be able to build such a building with special attention. The proposed law therefore allowed the local self-government unit of Articles 30 and 39 to have the party in the process of issuing a building permit and a principle permit setting out all the essential elements of complex structures and conditions for the issue of building and use permits, if the complex building is built in parts. Finally, illegal construction must be prevented by all means available. Therefore, the construction inspection shall be provided with the necessary protection and smooth work. The building inspector shall have the right to carry out an inspection of each building. If an inspector determines a breach of the rules in the exercise of inspection, the application of which he or she is authorised to supervise under official duty shall be initiated by administrative procedure and shall take appropriate measures to remove irregularities, suspend construction or order the disposal of buildings. In previous practice, difficulties have arisen in solving the construction inspection which orders the building owner to remove dangerous damage to the building and when the inspection procedure was initiated by local self-government. This unit of local self-government was obliged to carry out the administrative execution of the construction inspection solution through its administrative authority. The Proposer has removed this difficulty in a way that amends the provisions of Article 162. The law on construction and prescribed that the solution... In these proceedings, the Ministry, which is a very important matter, because the local self-government unit is almost incapable of doing so. [[/the speaker doesn't understand.]] Assume that the costs of carrying out these solutions until the charge... is charged from the state budget, or from the budget of the unit of local self-government, if it wants to speed up the process. The first-degree infringement procedure has been reinstated to the jurisdiction of the criminal courts and thus the construction inspection has no jurisdiction. And finally, I want to point out that so many amendments and additions to the existing Construction Act have essentially changed its content entirely. Provisions that are inconclusive, or have made it difficult to implement, have been removed and adapted to the current needs of construction. The Croatian Democratic Community MPs' club supports amendments and additions to the Construction Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-08-0.u16473	Thank you very much, dear fellow Chirac. My colleagues and colleagues have determined that the time has elapsed for individual hearings of 10 minutes each. Now we're moving on with the club debate. It is next to Club IDS, first colleague Valter Drandić, and then after that, Walter Poropat. Here you go, colleague Walter.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-08-0.u16474	Mr. Vice President, Madam Minister, Madam Assistant, colleagues and fellow MPs. As long as we are saying that it is necessary to strongly resist illegal construction that should take such effective measures as to prevent illegal construction, but we hear that it is said that we should also look at who it is, who is building it illegally, whether it's an apartment facility or for some other purpose, I don't think we're going to be efficient enough. The illegal construction by us from the IDS Club is an illegal construction, no matter who or why they're doing it, simply can't happen. We are in that chain at the beginning of those who are most responsible for making such regulations that it simply does not happen. The IDS Club supports the adoption of these laws as well as any legal solutions that go in the direction of preventing such a mess in space and which go in the direction of creating a single order in space. In our view, however, the main issue remains, regardless of these legislative proposals, the issue of power, and thus the real responsibility of the units of local and regional self-government, our municipalities, cities, counties, responsibilities and powers in the management of spatial resources on their territory, and we believe that the implementation of certain operational measures and actions to prevent the illegal conduct of space should be brought down at least to the county level. In addition to planning instruments, local and regional levels should have much more efficient instruments for preventing and sanctioning illegal construction. Today's organisation, training and equipment of inspection services is unfortunately at a very low level, and our mayors, mayors or mayors and other bodies of units of local and regional self-government have almost no authority in this area but at the same time our citizens participate as the most responsible and logical. It's kind of like this in practice. The mayor, for example, drives in a car and notices some new construction, checks through his services to see if any construction is even allowed in that space, finds that it is not, invites the inspector to give his opinion, but the inspector is very difficult to get because the inspector has no phone in most cases, no cell phone. When he gets it, he can't see it because he doesn't have a vehicle or if he has a vehicle, there's no fuel, and I'm not going any further into what's going on, and that's basically the main problem in our fight against this monster, and we're in surgery mostly powerless, no matter what we can bring in the best legal solutions. This is today's situation, unfortunately, and it would have been much better for us from the IDS Club if responsibility but also the powers had fallen to local and regional levels. However, these legal proposals can do better than the present system, and we particularly welcome the measures to protect the coasts and the obligations to develop spatial plans. A particular problem in this segment is certainly an unresolved catastre of maritime goods, and it would be good to think that instead of taking measures to disband the municipal or city council, some stronger instruments can be introduced because these can be part of a political game to, for example, the cities and municipalities that have not adopted business plans make them bring them in a way to suspend all donations and help the county and state until they do so. The specific proposals of the IDS Club in connection with the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on spatial regulation outside these principles which I have said so far are the following, in Article 2 of the proposed law, we wonder why only the authorised architect would be allowed to make professional bases and ideas. It is right for us to make detailed plans, but we do not think it is right that an authorised engineer of the building is not allowed to design professional businesses because these are the very authorised building engineers in the largest number of cases and they are making professional bases for complex, especially industrial and infrastructure buildings. In Article 6, we see no particular reason why the ministry would agree to amend or supplement the programme of measures especially if we now have a four-year programme and in four years many things can change. The programme of measures shall determine the need to draw up new or amend the additions of existing spatial editing documents. The law lays down exactly how the obligation to draw up individual documents of spatial arrangement is defined, and these obligations are included only in the programme of measures in order of priority only. The programme of measures is delivered to a ministry that can always react to irregularities, so we really do not see the purpose of this agreement. Giving consent to plans in the coastal zone makes sense and justifications and is justified for the reason that, in the period until certain things are finally agreed, the ministry controls the plans before their adoption and makes an inventory of the existing but we do not see the purpose of further administration of the programme of measures. And in Article 23, we believe that this article, which we welcome in any case, should, unless it has been established that protection of the coastal area is within a thousand and 300 meters, too, to establish the obligation to establish the detailed limit by the spatial plans of urban and municipal arrangements on the catastrian basis, of course, provided that the width of that belt is not less than 300 metres, respectively, but could be greater if the spatial plan for some attractive areas considers it necessary. It is necessary to set a time limit for the harmonisation of the spatial plans already adopted in that sense, with provisions of this law of course applicable until harmonisation. These are the comments of the IDS Club and I would ask my colleague, Walter Poropat, to give the position of the IDS Club on the connection between the Construction Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-08-0.u16475	Thank you very much. Mr. Walter Poirot. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-08-0.u16476	Dear Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Minister, Assistant Minister, colleagues and fellow MPs! The proposed amendments and additions to the IDS Club Construction Act are seen as a positive move towards improving the existing law with our proposal for this bill and thus by introducing more order in space. The constant intensity of all of us to simplify the process of issuing a building permit and here we should consider the state of not only improving legal regulation but also improving the working conditions of employees in construction bodies but also supporting units of local self-government to produce spatial-planned documentation. I can say that in Istria, the Office of State Administration, based in Pula, still operates in six outposts which I claim from experience are not teamed up enough to be able to solve local and construction permits more quickly without talking about the salaries of these people by the equipment facilities on the ground and not counting. It is good in amending the law that the designer is responsible for the compliance of the main project under location conditions. However, as long as the system of responsibility of all participants from those who make and bring plans to the projectors from those who give certificates to the building body, from investors, contractors, supervisors and other participants is written in certain laws and in practice cannot apply other effective measures that will take that responsibility, even if it is necessary to sanction in the end, the main responsibility continues to be assumed by an employee who issues a building permit where, of course, valuable time is spent for control, compliance with the locational conditions or conditions set out in the detailed arrangements plan. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth The law on spatial planning has been authorised by the Minister to adopt a regulation laying down procedures in a space for which no local authorisation is required. Regulation on the determination of procedures in the area for which no local authorisation of the "National Journal" is issued No. 98 of the 99th year, among other things, it was found that a family home did not require a location permit. However, the new regulation "The People's News" No. 86 of 2004 which entered into force on 1 July 2004. A few days ago and the old rule that the family house stopped valid is no longer on the list of procedures for which no local authorisation is required. I think it would be a good idea for this part to be brought together a little bit. We do not see the reason why the family house is being returned to the location permit again and we believe that a copy of the plan is quite sufficient, the more the amendments to the Construction Act provide for the refusal of a building permit if access to the building particle is not ensured from the public transport surface. It is questionable, however, whether a building with three floors, three housing units and a building gross area of 400 square meters is a family house, these parameters can be used in the part of the relief in the performance of works, supervision and other obligations under the Construction Act, but we believe that the concept of a family house means a building where a family solves its housing issue must be a smaller building, which really needs to simplify the process of issuing a building permit without reintroducing a location permit. In addition, the Regulation does not mention all the structures referred to in Article 116. The construction law for which Article 118 is applicable The construction law provides for the issue of a certificate on the main project. This means that for the auxiliary building or economic building referred to in Article 116. The construction law should be based on a local permit, after which confirmation of the main project means that the process for the construction of such simple buildings is further complicated by the 1999 Construction Act. Furthermore, we at the IDS Club have submitted an amendment to Article 51 of the amendment and the addition of the Construction Act, which suggests a solution to the problems that arise in cases where the registered burden in land books is to be deleted for a building. That it is not accompanied by a building permit or a useful permit, for which the building has to be proved to have been built before February 15th, 1968. Therefore, we consider the most correct that the construction inspection after the court's decision has been taken in accordance with Article 141. The Construction Act shall act in the same way and shall, in its procedure, comply with the provisions of the Construction Act and the General Administrative Procedure Act, determine whether there is a basis for the conduct of the inspection. If it finds that the building was built before 15 February 1968, then the building inspection act adopted on the basis of such a factual condition is also the basis for eradicating the load in question from the land book, not to mention what it means to obtain a credit from a business bank for the reconstruction of the old building. You know that a construction expert who has the terms of an authorised construction engineer would have to prove that this building was built before 1968, and we believe in the IDS Club that this responsibility and profession can be taken over by a building inspector by having all the conditions to do such a job. And finally, we suggest that even more efficient and faster outcomes of permits by the ministry are encouraged by units of local self-government to produce spatial planning documentation, which in the budgets the units of local self-government take up large, and somewhere too many items. We heard from the opening statement of the distinguished minister that two-and-a-half million kunas were allocated. We know that the tariffs are determined per hectare, i.e. per metre square meter, so that these 2.5 million kunas, I'm afraid, will be insufficient for all units of local self-government that have small budgets for small units of local self-government. In addition to these improvements and amendments that we have submitted, the IDS Club will support any proposal that speeds up the outcome of local and construction permits as well as any legal solutions and improvements that go towards preventing illegal construction and creating order in space. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-08-0.u16477	I'd like to thank Mr. Agent Porpot. There is one correction to the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Mr Ivo Josipovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-08-0.u16478	Thank you, Mr. President. Here we heard the fact that some object doesn't have a building permit or a location permit, a burden. That's not true. So it is not a burden, although it is recorded as being entered, and otherwise I think that these things should be considered to separate from the fact that some property exists legally or illegally and that the entry into the land book registers only the fact of ownership and illegality or the illegality of construction.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-08-0.u16479	Thank you very much. We're moving on to a ten-minute hearing. The first one, I'm sorry, came forward on behalf of the proposing minister, Ms Marina Matulović-Dropulic. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-08-0.u16480	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. I'll just say a few words, because I'm sure they'll probably not have in the opening part been clear enough so because the less talk about it, the less I think three or four words should say. Namely, why a local permit was introduced for a family home, that's two or three MPs were talking about it. In fact, you all probably know that the county's spatial plans work in scale 1:100,000 and that the spatial plans work in scale 1:25000. The performances of these plans cannot tell what is the position of the family house on the plot and this is where the problem arises. It can't be determined either the plot or the size of the plot, somewhere you can't even see if there's a way to that plot and we've suggested it this hour, if there's no detailed plan. If he has a detailed plan, then a clear location permit doesn't need. We only suggested this because in practice the situation is such that people get the opportunity to do something even on the road or on the municipal infrastructure, in various and different places where it shouldn't be. And I totally agree with Mr. Tomcic who talked about the location permit, that is, the location most important, and we will do everything we can to actually strengthen it in these changes and additions, I mean in new laws, because if he still solves the neighbors, then we have de facto solved everything, and the projectors can then take responsibility and investors for the house they are building. Thus, the location is that, there is also protection of space, there is also an exact position in the plot and so on. So that was the only reason. The fact is, it may make something more complicated for investors, but the truth is that we have simplified the project documentation needed for construction, for a house permit of up to 400 square meters. We therefore think that this will be done with each other, that it will need neither more funding nor more projects to be attached. Because if only 1:100 is made with a schematic display of installations, no more project documentation is required for plumbing, sewerage, for everything complete, but only a schematic display is required. So that's a big difference and it's a lot less cost than it's ever been. I'd like to say one more thing about illegal construction, we're all together, we're talking about it all the time, and all the time, especially now that we've started those crashes that I'm saying I'm not particularly happy about, but that's the only possibility that we can work things out, there are still three basic reasons why illegal construction was created. First, land books and an excerpt from the garter shop are to prove it's yours. If you can't prove it, you can't get a building permit and that's where the first problem arises, and that's why today's point is the first one you've discussed amendments and additions to the Law on Land Books on Simplification of the Whole Procedure, it's certainly going to affect the disabling of illegal construction. Because when it takes six months in Zagreb, a year or two to get a copy from the grantshop, then the situation is that normal people are starting to build illegally. Another problem is the non-payment of the municipal contribution. An analysis has been made, it is known that a large part of the facilities present in the area can be legalised, i.e. it can receive a local and construction permit but people do not want to pay a municipal contribution. They all think that they can join the municipal infrastructure without any problem and that it is actually a communal contribution, and the municipal contribution is exclusively to build new municipal infrastructure. It can also not be used for other purposes under the law. The fact is that spatial plans, we've talked about them enough, so I'm not going to say one of the reasons as well. I'm not saying that the inspection isn't a guilty inspection it's certainly because it wasn't all solved in time and it's normal that it's easier to tear down the foundations of some house than the whole house, but you also need to know that these houses like this have now collapsed less than Zadar, are actually being built over the weekend. But we still have the inspections too little, but still people don't want to come to the inspection, so last year it left the Ministry of the 100 Inspectors. That's almost 2/3 of the inspectors are gone. We just have to do something to keep the people who come to the inspection and stay. We have now opened a contest as you have seen in all the newspapers for 77 places of it 68 inspectors. We bought them new cars, we buy them new cars again. So we're going to do everything we can to make the inspection really work in a different way than it's done so far. And just something about the moratorium, I think I've made it clear enough that the moratorium will only, in some cases, be able to pass the Tax Regulation so long as this Act is not passed, but we have also suggested that all those who by the end of this year submit a request for legalisation, i.e. for local or construction permits will pay the normal value of the municipal contribution, but all those who don't make it by the end of this year and there's no reason not to do so, they don't have to have complete project documentation and so on, but they have to report, except for this communal contribution one and a half times that communal contribution, so it's also about the value of the facility and the size of the facility and so on and so on. So it's the same one of the measures that must simply be taken and I told the moratorium all those who have units of local self-government, who have made plans and who have plans that have been made on them is to get them to the Ministry as soon as possible so that the Ministry can give them these plans consent. So the moratorium's been defacto for only a month. At the end of the 8th month, the government will adopt a regulation, so we can begin to have plans already today, as soon as this law is changed, if you accept it, so there is no reason why this part of the work should not be done in one normal and fast way, and besides, we meet all the time, we have units of local self-government coming to us anyway, especially those who are in the interest of having it done according to plan and order, coming already now and already some of them can, without any problem, get consent regardless of the obligation to give this agreement to the Ministry. And just one more thing, we are, in any case, talking about what we're talking about now, about this new law, which will definitely need to boost the responsibility of the designer. It's the designer who must be responsible for what he did and the performer for what he did. Let's just say why in this Space Act we said we could withdraw the licenses. We have such spatial plans that man simply cannot believe that someone could have made it this way. So, I think I could talk a lot more, I think it really doesn't make sense, I'm asking you nicely, thank you for all your remarks we'll accept most of it, but I'm also asking you to change and supplement those two laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-08-0.u16481	I would like to thank Mrs. Secretary. We move to a debate of 10 minutes, the first representative is Mr. Zvonimir Puljic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-08-0.u16482	Mr. Chairman, Madam Minister, colleagues and colleagues. As a man from the sea, I have witnessed the accelerated devastation of the coastal area that has been attacked by intensely inappropriate construction, so I welcome this proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Spatial Planning, and it would deserve and support and commendation that it comes down only to Article 23, which sets out a protected coastal belt because it demonstrates its determination to combat the deviant multi-annual practice, which, often under the cover of development plans, has endangered the most valuable coastal space by disrupting its ecological and ambitious values as well as long-term economic perspectives. The government has a 30-day deadline of 30 days to reduce damage and determination to implement the provision of a declarative provision on the protection of coastal areas in the current law, into a land area of 1,000 metres from the coastal line and a sea belt within a range of 300 metres as an area of special interest for the Republic of Croatia in which it cannot be built outside the construction area unless it adopts a spatial plan of arrangement, other than infrastructure facilities in accordance with the relevant documentation, with the obligation that all spatial plans within that area must be obtained prior consent of the Ministry, the introduction of moratories, the prohibition of construction and the issuing of local permits in a protected coastal area until the government adopts a regulation for the implementation of the Law. Only by quick action can the process of concreteisation be stopped and therefore the emergency procedure is also fully justified. This is where Croatia goes through other Mediterranean countries, most of which have special laws on coastal areas. Because the appearance of riots in this particularly valuable space, the irrational use of land resources, driven by the one-off and short-term possibility of profit acquisition, is not only present through illegal construction but also through its legalised, plan-covered form, in which the profession is neither pure. All are familiar with the case of Žnjana in Split and the irreparable damages caused in the long term for this area. I therefore stress the operational value of the proposed measures that extend to professional authorities in spatial planning activities, stressing the possibility of shorting out the consent and the Ministry of and the license to carry out the aforementioned jobs and which is valid for both legal persons and authorised architects as well as a good remedy for the fall in the quality of urban affairs. A good solution is to professionalise the preparation of the procedure for issuing the local authorisation. draw up an idea solution for issuing a local authorisation as well as an increase in the powers of urban inspection and stricter penalties for prescribed infringements. The introduction of a medium-term programme of measures to improve the situation in space for 4 years instead of two years and the reduction of the right to change over a four-year period eliminates legal uncertainty which has been caused by frequent and arbitrary changes adapted to partial interests. The view of the island as a unique whole is logical, and so is the obligation to develop a common spatial plan. And it is realistic to predict the inability of local self-government that at least sometimes they are unable to agree and harmonize their plans into one, so intervention is given to the county. As the spatial planning of the arrangements was passed by representative bodies only 20% of local self-government, the law prescribed a deadline is no later than 31. 12. In 2005, a sanction under the Law on Local Self-Government on Disbanding Bodies is also activated, which does not bring forward spatial arrangements within the deadline. In the background of such a situation with local planning documentation, it is not just a lack of time or a lack of money in the budget, but also an interest, so that the irregular state lasts as long as possible. Because certain municipalities have made plans that lie in drawers for years. For those municipalities that have no significant development, nor enough budget money, it is good that the content of the plans they are obliged to make is reduced, making them actually more accessible and feasible. And to conclude, the proposed amendments and additions to the existing law are urgent measures to stop or at least slow down unwanted tendencies in space and therefore need to be supported urgently. Until the adoption of a new law that will fully address the issue of spatial arrangements and all details which, due to the urgency of this law, have not now been covered. Mr. Chairman, may I then proceed to my facilities, on a proposal to amend the Law on Construction, because the discussions were united and I gave the application?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-08-0.u16483	Within 10 minutes, here's only six.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-08-0.u16484	Great, I have a chance then. The slowness of administrative procedures results in particularly harmful consequences in the area of construction. Because it stops investment, increases the cost and duration of construction. And besides, it's one of the unquestionable incentives for lawless construction. The causes of the dispute are partly in poor existing legal solutions, so I see this draft law amending and supplementing the Construction Act as an attempt to remove or at least reduce the adverse consequences by means of emergency measures, while the announced new Construction Act would fully resolve the construction regulation with a view to ensuring the construction of all objects on the basis of one document whose acquisition will not harm investors and detimise investors, and will be achieved according to uniform criteria. In this respect, the above-mentioned amendments move towards a change in the legal regulation on construction, and prevent or at least reduce the significant damage resulting from poor and non-executive solutions in the applicable law. In order to simplify the process of obtaining a building permit, the mandatory content of the main project for family and simple buildings is reduced. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Article 20 of amendments and additions shall be reduced by Article 20. The number of certificates required, i.e. opinions in the process of issuing a building permit, shall be reduced. These shall be accepted by those supplied for the location permit, except for four, fire protection, safety at work, protection against ionising radiation and one more. In addition, the above-mentioned needs are supplied by bodies of construction services which are under official duty to obtain them. The number of documents to be submitted in the application for a building permit is also reduced. Article 22 changes to investors protect themselves against the unfounded initiation of the administrative dispute, as these cases are also known to cause a delay in the construction of the neighbour, without a valid foundation and thereby harm the investor. As a protection against such unfounded proceedings, the law provides for the right of investors to compensation for damages. For investors who are "encouraged" and have started or completed the construction permit before the issue of the building permit, the amendments to the law provide for sanctions of a financial nature for a special administrative fee, but of course only for those who have built in accordance with the main project and spatial plan. While the issue of a building permit for a facility has been disabled, it has been built or started against the main project without any time limit for harmonisation. The right of local self-government to prohibit, for example, works during a certain calendar period during the tourist season has been strengthened, because it is not only declarative, but it becomes an offence for both the investor and the performer. Infringements under this law shall be transferred from the authority of the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Spatial Planning and Construction to misdemeanor courts. Which I think is good and will increase efficiency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-08-0.u16485	Thank you very much. The word has a distinguished representative, Mr. Nenad Stazic. Looks like he's gone. He's losing his right. Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-08-0.u16486	Thank you very much. In my brief discussion, I will refer to only one provision of the Construction Act with a concrete proposal which I came to on the basis of consultations with experts on spatial planning, environmental protection and construction, which have also asked me to try to suggest to the Minister that these proposals be taken seriously. In this law, Article 27 introduces a newspaper, which is also called the so - called so - called law in the light of the law. the conference, the conference which would aim and the task of the construction body issuing building permits at a working or operational meeting, with the presence of a representative of the body to a public authority or body of the public administration of the investor and projector, i.e. the main designer, removes the possible ambiguity of the disputed details of the main project in order to speed up the process of issuing the building permit. And we assume that there is indeed a need for major complex construction projects, major projects or many offices to try to influence the time particularly of that part, where legal persons with public powers are unjustly stalled by issuing opinions or consent to the main project. However, with the people I consulted, they advised that, if required, the conference would be mandatory for each issue of a building permit, the minimum deadline for issuing a building permit would be 23 days. In fact, it is 8 days to convene within the day of receipt of the request, so that at that conference, representatives of legal persons with public authority may be left with 15 days within which they must either issue a certificate or be manifested, and only if they do not arrive at that conference again within the next 15 days will they be deemed to have consent or confirmation issued. The situation is further complicated by establishing certain comments from participants at the conference, where that deadline is re-run 8 plus 15, so it is 23 plus 23, we arrive up to 46 days with the least of which, it will be the deadlines that will have to be respected. My proposal is also in the form of an amendment to make these conferences not mandatory, but to be as a possibility to use or use in those situations or those cases, where the Head of the Office of State Administration, or the services issued by the building permit, assess that this conference will speed up the procedure and in some way force legal persons with public authority to issue consent or terms or conditions or permits or to confirm how we have to call them. And to avoid the excuses that projects are being studied, that there are no record states, that I don't know what all excuses are being found. And that is why we propose, therefore, through the amendment to go through the provision, that a legal person with public authority or public administration is obliged to issue that certificate within 8 days. Eight ladies, the maximum time limit, to apply the conference only by assessment if it speeds up the post-puk, but this deadline in paragraph 2 after the conference, instead of 15 days, shall be 8 days, in order to reduce to a maximum of 16 days when the conference is used. These proposals do not require any new technical means, no new cost or money, but enable the leaders of the public offices of the state administration and of the long-term construction bodies to really be those who will assess whether this possibility gives them the opportunity under the law to facilitate and speed up the process. Just one more detail. The Minister spoke of the inspectors who abandoned them and perhaps another such example. The Office of the State Administration of the Međemurje County asked for high-level experts to fill systematic jobs, and believe it was April of this year, no candidates in the competition twice. No one wants to call in to do the job. Well, it's a team that we don't introduce this conference as mandatory anymore. And the other argument they gave me, it might look funny to you, but it's true. There is no office or hall in the Medmir County where 15 people would be seated. To be able to hold a conference, she's gone. Because it's the biggest office where the conferences of the hall type work, we're practically going to have to rent space to reflect the conference obviously on Fridays at the end of the week. Then We solve them for a tenth of the matter. So please, Madam Minister, try to see and understand this, and you know what I'm talking about the conference is given as a possibility, and let's give an assessment of the professional people on the ground to assess as quickly as possible the building permit. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-08-0.u16487	Thank you very much. It's Mr. Representative Damir Caine's turn. He's gone. Now it's Mr. Agent Ante Markov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-08-0.u16488	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, Madam Minister, I will look more closely at the amendments and amendments to the law on spatial planning. Not only because of the shortness of time but by wanting first of all to pollemise in a different way to help, especially in those parts of the current law as problematic. And the consequences of which were certain circumstances that were not good for either party in the process. I would also like to say a few things in principle about this law which, in its basic and fundamental objectives, has one particular concern, special protection of valuable resources, which are Croatian islands, and coastal areas, and which want them in the interest of the Republic of Croatia in one special way and fully protected by the absolute. But given the fact that in the truth in works and in certain areas there has been a devastion, that there has been a discrepancy of nature and of man and of the buildings found on that part. Of course, by looking quite hypothetically, you can of course ask what is always legitimate and the question is whether constitutionally legal terms can be shared by the Republic of Croatia on one position relative to those in another position. Either allow it, or it is possible or as in some segments and strategies that it has brought among other things and this Assembly Croatia is always treated, for example, in terms of tourism as Croatia. It does not, in the sense of its destination, represent a whole. And our whole country, if we're going to be honest, in a way that represents one special value. It's about Mr. Chehok speaking of the same topic he was trying to make a failure to compare Croatia with some other countries I don't want to name now so it doesn't appear that I want to offend those countries. But Croatia is precisely by its natural beauty which is not and is not only situated on the coast and on the islands, but the price of Croatia represents this natural beauty that should be fully protected. I don't see almost any reason you know, that this same principle that I advocate to be respected to apply to the whole country. So we have so many national parks we have so many nature parks, we have so many landscapes which have their own special value, that almost Croatia can be declared in terms of size and I don't think it would be a precedent, that it's just treated as an entirely special area in which one specific area of responsibility should be slowed down above all I think it should be in people's heads. This detachment and creation of the island and coast by this special regime for which I stand, can cause wrong thinking and wrong thinking, and I don't think anything would happen in terms of the instruments and ways in which all of this special protection is valued in order to apply it to all of Croatia. And I don't think there's anything wrong with that. Furthermore, what I also want to explain now is that the spatial plans and plans of the higher and lower order for the islands are supposed to be unified. You see, in 93 years since the establishment of a local self-government in Croatia, a single unit of local self-government has gone a long way, the one who has acted in local self-government knows that these plans are often and not just because local self-government has been wrong for 5.6 years. There were many forces that stopped it, interesting or financial, so it was ultimately needed money for it. Well, then you know exactly who can make a plan for you, because if you trust a company that's even cheaper, maybe it's never going to work out, unfortunately, we live in society, and there's no reason why we don't say that. As there are lobbys and interests everywhere, one big lobby has lobbys in construction, in spatial planning, in designing, and exactly what can be cost and what cannot be. And then those municipalities that had to do project plans for four or five years, they worked together for the entire island. Then the government had no bearing on them that, she said they couldn't do joint projects but that every community should work for itself and then it was two more years, and now they came to make each one for themselves. Now we're gonna have to bring them back to work together. I absolutely, if I were to make an immediate determination, I advocate the unique plans on the islands because there's no need, regardless of what I wouldn't want to realize that this suggests that all the municipalities will be abolished on those islands, so there will be only one. I just want to share my thinking clearly for the public. I stand for a unique spatial plan because the island is always in its own way no matter how many municipalities there are, a unique whole. I would return to one also very interesting fact that you will probably all recognize, especially those who work in local self-government, which is that local self-government is the original bearer of all activities in the adoption of a spatial plan. The municipal or city council accepts and adopts a spatial plan, organises public debates, provides financial resources for this spatial plan. There was a very strange situation when the municipality itself protested and challenged a certain solution either on the building permit, whether urban conditions and asked to review a decision that was first made at the county level, and then at the ministry level because it considered it as if I was going to talk about it, that using certain irregularities in the spatial plans itself per unit had thought to build in family homes 11, 12, 16 or 20 apartments and then local self-government interfered and said gentlemen in the county give it to you, it's not okay, it can't go like that, it's not normal. And then you get a solution from the county to dismiss the appeal of local self-government because it's not a party in the process. Imagine the community of local self-government that has brought a spatial plan, which is behind a spatial plan and which it has funded gets a solution that is not a party in the process and then a man wonders who's crazy, what happens here all of a sudden and then a man goes on and says if I have another state that certainly won't do it like these down there, because they're connected. And then the same state gets a solution, the appeal is dismissed as being declared by an unauthorized person. Here you see the problem, the problem is that this local self-government is what it is, it can be like this and it can be like that, but if you don't trust it, and if you don't put it in the system that in good faith, it can react effectively, then the consequences and the best plan are bad. Because you know that sometimes the local chief has to go after the inspector himself because he usually doesn't have a car because he doesn't have gas and he has to bring it to the construction site to show him who it is, because clearly the chief and municipal as unauthorized and they don't have anything to be there, and they're always guilty of everything that happens in every community when it all happens with the right or the right to bring down someone's house with right or right is always your fault for local self-government.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-08-0.u16489	Your Honor, if this guy doesn't have any gas, you don't have any more time.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-08-0.u16490	Here's another sentence. Therefore, I would ask that these illogicalities be brought into line with local self-government and that the body in charge of the decision be at least able to be a participant in the governing dispute. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-08-0.u16491	Thank you for the discussion. The word has a distinguished representative, Josie Leko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-08-0.u16492	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. In one of the professional journals, I found an article, so I will only quote the introduction: Space-urbanist plans and building regulations should be in the function of community development with the aim of using land and living space as the most lasting and significant and significant resource of development, optimal land use and spatial planning in the continuity of generations and a proportionate ratio of agricultural, construction and forest land. If I fully understand this definition and this claim by experts, and if I look at the basic issues to be addressed by the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Spatial Planning, which I already said on the Legislatives Committee, this bill will not solve problems in spatial planning and space in the Republic of Croatia, however, I consider them necessary and necessary legal intervention in a situation in space and in this sense I will also vote for the adoption of this law. However, they can comment on two objectives which are intended to be achieved by amending and supplementing this law, to set a deadline for municipalities and cities to adopt a spatial planning plan, and this deadline is extended several times. Is it possible, now the question is, is it possible to stop life? Of course, the deadline does not mean that municipalities and cities cannot bring spatial plans before the end of the deadline, and that would be desirable. If the conditions that the state must prepare are met, if the state has regulated the cadastre and land books and if it has adopted that spatial plan then it could be expected that municipalities and cities, because they cannot stop the need to build family and other facilities, even if they have made serious financial efforts, will bring these legally established spatial plans. Hopefully, that's how it's gonna be, just how it's been so far if you know each other day in the morning, it won't be like that. The second thing I want to do is look at the arrangement, the process of land parceling and establishing the land necessary for the regular use of the building is arranged. It makes no sense if we didn't inherit one mentality from socialist urbanism when it was all social. If this is arranged prior to the adoption of spatial plans, we create the conditions to keep working on spatial plans and thus really allow for the continuity of someone's work and lawyers and land-booked officials, but that is less of a problem, but we are creating uncertainty. Here I would give the deadlines to set shorter, shorter because let's be realistic about the regular use of the façade building or something like that would have to make some criteria and then determine who and how the land and land particles belong to already existing building. However, my opinion is that it will not solve the problem either, the problem will be solved when it is committed and I would ask you at least to address the positions of surveillance and say there are in the Republic of Croatia cities and municipalities that have urban and implementation plans and citizens who are in need to build a family house and some other objects can address and gain insight into existing particles and get them in competition. So urbanized are communally equipped and I can get them. It will be a measure that will most eliminate illegal construction, that is my conviction. If we do this in planning, then we won't need it no matter how it's built, the damage is neither right nor social, but we'll go ahead and offer the particles to build those who want to build. So, unfortunately, I have to say that I will support the law as a fire measure but it does not address the issue of urbanism and the need for urbanism. When it comes to the Construction Act, it is simply not a mess in Croatia only in spatial planning but also in construction and construction. I don't know if it's still worth building... who controls them, who controls them from the state's point of view, not investors, built-in materials, building standards, so that one earthquake doesn't convince us that we were bad hosts, bad masters. From that title, and I have already said that to the Committee on Law, I do not agree that the power of the Minister responsible for construction and spatial planning is diversified, rather than being given more authority, and that he is more responsible, regardless of who is at the head of this ministry, in this sense I believe that the divergence of responsibility, the establishment of the Committee on Construction, the resolution of responsibility because that body is appointed by the minister, responsible to him, and there is no quasi to say so the role of the quasi-government body, it is only in the minister's service, unfortunately, in some way taking him off his responsibility, divulging his responsibility for the situation in that power. Something is different only when you have explained it, the body that should work on standardisation and the adaptation of Croatian laws and other rules in the area of construction with the countries of the European Union has an excuse in essence, but there is no excuse to be found in the Law on Construction, it is the body that should be in the basic Law on State Administration and it must be possible for the minister to serve with experts whenever it is in the interest of the profession or the area and its competence in the Ministry. Unfortunately, once again, we must mention that both of these laws rely on the Law on land books and even more on the Law of Property. I mention this because it is high time for the state to consider and design the protection of space for future generations because ownership of land will be on the market for all and there will be no restrictions on the purchase of ownership but to protect the space for future generations should be planned long, designed and in the interest of future generations and sustainable development of the Republic of Croatia. I hope that this government's promise to prepare new legal projects by the end of this year will ensure that the Republic of Croatia protects its interest in space and in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-08-0.u16493	Thank you. The word has a respected representative, Mato Arlović.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-08-0.u16494	Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. I must say, I am pleased to announce that, in fact, after these changes and additions, there will be a whole new construction law and a law on spatial planning. This is because I think that this little step that is offered to the amendments and the additions of the law is little progress in what we do, the second question is what we can have regrets about how it was done but not enough and it is not enough for this area to be settled until the end. In addition, some of the solutions are not only formally legal but also content that are offered are nevertheless partly questionable. I will first and foremost welcome some of the solutions that certainly increase the discipline of space management and when building, open up the possibility that all buildings located in the building zone, if they are built or started construction, are naturally established under the law, that they can be legalised unless a location and construction permit is obtained under the prescribed conditions and when these conditions are met. And that's good. It is also good to pay responsibility on the one hand and to strengthen the measures on the other hand, it may be necessary to consider the possibility of income on the basis of sanctions for not obtaining a building permit in time or not being built in accordance with the building permit, that such revenues are put into a special fund for building social housing or for building apartments for our defenders and that in this respect they should not even be stingy in that part. Of course, provided that it is an objective liability of the investor and not in cases where the liability has occurred because of a failure of the work of the state authority or of an administrative organisation with public authority or local self-government. I also welcome these solutions that are related to the Law on Spatial Planning for the Protection of the Coast and the Island. The second question is actually how to plan and manage the space that will be within the 1,000 meters of, in fact, maritime goods, and I think that there should be a special regulation that will ensure that, in accordance with the special intes of the Republic of Croatia but also the protection of human health and the protection of environmental needs, of course, sees how and what in that space at all, when these exceptions are present and when they can be allowed. So, I support a whole series of these solutions, of course, that I also support the simplifications that are related to certain building facilities especially for family houses, etc., but I also have some not to say the questions but the remarks and the real shame that we have such important laws with such major changes got relatively late that they can't get much amendment intervention because there's not enough time to go through in detail and studioically. First, I personally feel that in Article 1 of the Law, I will become more committed, for example. I'm not gonna make it to the construction law to talk about two laws, so I'm only gonna talk about one. First of all, I believe that the amendment of Article 1 and the whole concept of how it is established is introduced between building and location permits. Where it is sheltered to protect cultural monuments and inspection of MUPA requires prior opinions or confirmation of the labs that are the condition for the construction of building permits projects. And now, succesively, according to this approach, a whole series of new solutions are being introduced, which are actually also quite interesting and somewhat questionable to me. For example, in Article 19 of the Law, it is proposed to introduce an installation scheme, which means who does this is not visible. Then so far, these have been elaborates or maps of the main project designed by the designer authorised, so that Article 4 of the former Article 1. Now it's a sketch scheme now it's a question of who was working, who gave up and what responsibility. It is not clear from this part of the law and in relation to the total law which ceases to apply. And certainly, if not now, that question will work out when the new law is passed. Further in Article 20, in the inter-phase between location and construction permits, fire protection shall be elaborated. Protection of work, harmful environmental impact protection of cultural goods. Now that these things come out, then they get confirmation, then there's a conference called with inspectors, a reference officer, an investor and a designer. So when we get consent, we still have a conference. What was the conference for? That's how it's written. What's the conference for if it's like that... it doesn't make sense. Or Article 26 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union should be amended accordingly. Not by paying for the communal contribution to the issue of the building permit itself. I know what was going to be achieved, to make sure that the local self-government units had to receive an imcommunal contribution to the civil permit. I agree with that. But the way it's set is actually conditioned by a civil permit instead of the other way around. We should ask the question that he cannot start construction until he pays the municipal contribution. That question. And in second place, we're talking about something long. In the second place, we say that the investor can continue to build although it is not a powerful building permit, of course, at his own risk and so on, but then we do not discuss what in the case of third parties' responsibilities in relation to his interest. And Article 27 did not resolve the deadlines, as regards the coordination of the main project, because it is not done orally as if the official makes an oversight or an identical mistake, in this regard. I think that the issues should be resolved after the deadlines have been aligned with certain issues. And now, of course, I have other comments. For example, in Articles 3 and 4, I think it is quite excessive to prescribe this law, that the Minister of Construction can set up a Committee on Construction. He doesn't need that. For a simple reason, because the special law on the establishment of ministries and administrative organisations at the end of the Law on Government is based on itself because it is responsible for this area. Therefore, he can establish the powers, councils, committees for construction, advice and so on and so forth and if he establishes them then he can determine everything else in compensation so that in fact this provision that burdens me by this law because he is a legitimate specialist for quite other issues and there is no need for these provisions to appear in this respect. Of course, I find it quite interesting and Article 22 related to the abuse of the right to initiate a administrative dispute, related to the chicane. Because actually if someone says in Article 22 if the final building permit is not justified because the party has initiated an administrative dispute, and the investor decides to build up the power of the building permit, then the investor has the right to claim from such a party the compensation of ordinary damage for some benefit. If it is established that the party has misused its right to initiate a administrative dispute. This is about something else entirely. It's actually about the possibility of a performance in front of a regular construction court. And there's no need here and there's no room for this provision. He's by the nature of things if someone else's found the damage he can ask for that part of the fee. The question now is whether, after the administrative dispute and after the more the following is now said in the next paragraph, the administrative dispute referred to in paragraph 3 of this Article is due by the Court of Justice of the Republic of Croatia to hang within 30 days. And now there's something going on that made me very happy. I have to admit, by this law, we're introducing an institute by which the administrative court would be given full jurisdiction. And he doesn't have it under the law of administrative disputes. According to the Law on Administrative Disputes, it actually controls the legality of the conduct of administrative bodies in relation to certain matters, and if it finds that there were illegalities in the rule, it generally makes judgments which return to re-treatment by administrative procedure. So what's standing here is naked right it's not allowed... Realize. And since this will not be realised, in the administrative dispute, that the party will be put into a situation so that it can claim compensation for damages because it will have to wait for the final administrative dispute db could receive damages. And in this respect we get one right which is important, which should be referred to a civil dispute, and at the same time we are fully aware that it cannot actually be realised by this Law. And that is why it is important to bear in mind that a whole series of questions about this Construction Act and so on, the law on spatial planning opens up, which are important for the change within the legal system in some other laws. And I will eventually have to say that because I will not have time, at least for the transitional and final provisions, or for Article 32, I have to stay for a few more questions. For example, Article 32 provides for the possibility for the government to determine by its decision what is of interest to the Republic of Croatia, of course regarding that famous article of 86 relating to specific buildings and so on. It's okay, it's just the problem with that by the Constitution it can't rule. Under the Constitution in such cases, it is only possible to and should be regulated by law. There is therefore no discussion, that it must return to this question in accordance with Article 50, and make sure that it has to be developed by law and when, and so far, it has been developed by law. And now there's something going on that I think is the most painful point of this law. That a whole series of provisions of individual laws in Article 82, even 14 of the Law, aside from the fact that it is not good, that a law which does not amend and supplement the law must not put an end to the provisions of other laws and other laws. But it's even more problematic that it's actually done to those special buildings. Where a legitimate specialist applies and business interest realizes that they are actually put out of force instead of discussing these issues in accordance with these laws. I think that this law in this respect will have very serious objections as well as in Article 81 where it is actually talking about the issues of the application of the law, that it will apply to the embezzlement and misdemeanor procedures that have begun this law. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Therefore, it should also be borne in mind that a whole series of provisions contained in this law should be nomothically and legally regulated in order to comply with the legal system and to comply with the constitution so that one good idea, a well operationalised bill does not fall into the water, and it is a shame that this law does not actually go into first reading and that by the end of this session, a second proposal comes to fix and settle the issue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-08-0.u16495	I thank Mr. Vice President of the House. The word has a respected representative Emil Tomljanović.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-08-0.u16496	Mr. Vice President, Ms. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. I will limit my debate only to amended and complemented the law on construction. Now, I think we will all agree that the proposed law absolutely affirms the principle that almost pervades all proposed amendments and amendments to the law, and this is also about the principle and the generally accepted position on the inadmissibility of illegal construction. Subject changes and additions on the other hand are fully focused on significantly facilitating the position of citizens in the process of issuing a building permit and on collecting documentation for issuing permits to investors who comply with the positive rules. On the other hand, certain amendments and additions have an exclusive penalty character in the first row for investors who are built without a building permit or against the applicable regulations. Furthermore, I think it is important to highlight the application of Article 159(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament in the sense of the adoption of the law in question although some colleagues here are heard we disagreed, therefore by an urgent procedure because no doubt in this way comes to the next so what the results are said. First, the reasons why certain institutes of applicable regulations are not enforceable are removed. Secondly, the conditions for quick, uniform and effective application of the law are ensured. And thirdly, the legal certainty of citizens and other entities is increasing, and I mean legal persons in connection with the rights and obligations prescribed by the law itself. It is obvious that, as much as possible, the government of the Republic of Croatia may prevent disturbances in the economy which, in the event of non-compliance with this law, would be manifested in the impasse or significant reduction of investments in the area of construction on the one hand and on the other hand, I believe that we all see this, in an apparent increase in illegal construction. The subject-matter proposal of the law regulates a number of issues which we can systematise in the following way, in my view, the sub-group. So questions related to the issue of a building permit, issues related to the content of the project documentation and matters of responsibility in relation to design and construction. And thirdly, other issues of conduct of proceedings and jurisdiction itself. As regards the process of issuing a building permit, this procedure clearly characterises the following 5 elements: 1. The documentation to be attached to the request for a building permit shall be reduced. 2. There is no doubt that the authorisation procedure is simplified. 3. The investor shall be allowed to sue the damage suffered by the abuse of the right to launch a administrative dispute by other parties. 4. The issue of a building permit for illegally built buildings, which have been built against spatial plans, is disabled. And 5, no less, special charges are introduced for investors who issue a building permit after they have already built the buildings. As far as project documentation is concerned, let me point out that the mandatory content of the main project is reduced, which is also very important for family houses and simple buildings. At the same time, the number of certificates and opinions on the main or idea project prescribed by specific laws is rationalised, and the collection of these documents is placed in part by the body of construction. Other questions, we can count them, I've systematized them the following way. The number of sublegislative regulations is reduced, and I am thinking first of all of the rules that need to be adopted for the purpose of implementing the law. The obligation to pass an expert examination for the construction work is deleted every 4 years, and I think the Minister in the opening statement also mentioned the reasons why it was included in this Act. The jurisdiction to conduct infringement proceedings prescribed by the Construction Act is amended and this is the way in which the infringement proceedings are now carried out by the competent courts. That's not the practice we've had before. Provisions on infringements of official duty shall be deleted by persons authorised to conduct procedures for the issue of construction permits and persons carrying out inspection controls and the provision under which legal persons with public authority, who no longer have the status of public institution, cannot issue certificates or opinions on the main, idea project when prescribed by a specific law, as from 1 April 2004. In addition, as regards liability, the solidarity of the legal person and the authorised architects, or the authorised engineer employed in that legal person for the damage caused in connection with the provision of that particular or specific transaction, shall be introduced. Of all the proposed amendments, I would refer more specifically to those that seem very important to me, and they refer to the subject matter of issuing a building permit, building permit, extending the subject matter of issuing a building permit in cases where the building particle for which that permit is issued is already illegally built, and ultimately in the manner of calling the parties for insight into the main project for reasons of clarity. In the process of issuing a building permit, it is determined whether the main project has been developed in accordance with the location conditions, whether certificates have been obtained on compliance with the main project with the specific regulations, whether the application for issue is accompanied by the prescribed documents, whether access from the public transport area has been ensured, and whether the payment of the municipal contribution under the specific law has been finally made. The other conditions to be met shall be laid down as a condition for issuing a valid permit, therefore not a building permit. An extremely significant amendment constitutes an extension of the subject matter of the building permit issue procedure in cases where the building particle or for which the permit is already in place of an illegally built building. Not only is the process of issuing such a building permit determined all the above facts but also the consistency of the works carried out or the building with the main project. This is very important. If, in that case, it is established that works or buildings themselves are in conflict with the main project, the body of construction will refuse to issue a building permit without a preliminary conclusion requiring the fulfilment of certain conditions. And in the event that there is compliance with the main project, the investor is obliged, and before issuing the building permit other than the administrative fee, to pay a special administrative fee in respect of a specific specific regulation. The additional extension of the subject-matter of the building permit shall constitute an obligation under the new Article 91 of the Law under which the construction body shall, after receiving the orderly request for a building permit, no later than 8 days after the call by the competent authorities of the State administration or by a legal person with public authority, to gain insight into the main project and to obtain the relevant certificates. In view of the main project, it is mandatory, therefore, to be present or to be seen by the investor and the projector or the main designer. The way in which parties are invited to enter the main project for the sake of clarity is clearly modified so that there are still two ways to call the parties, but for the application of the call method, it is no longer an important number of properties with which the building particle is bordered but a category of building for which the permit is issued. The first and regular way is to call through calls for a building particle and on the building body’s advertising board by no longer delivering written notice to those parties on the recommended route. So obviously the newspaper. Another way is to call through a public call to be published in public press or other means of public communication and on the body of construction’s advertising board. The moment of delivery of the call in both cases remains the same as before. In the first case, it is the first day of the call for a building particle or building, and in the second case it is the day of publication of the call in public press or at the second public medium, in the second medium of public communication. Since my time is up, Mr. Vice President, only two more sentences. Finally, it should be pointed out that the most significant proposed change is related to criminal provisions, that the jurisdiction to conduct infringement proceedings is also a novelty, and that the provisions on the implementation of official, violation of official duty and the introduction of a criminal penalty for performers who are acting contrary to the decision of the representative body of the local self-government unit. It's final. This bill should absolutely be supported and be implemented as soon as possible with its concrete application. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-08-0.u16497	I thank the esteemed representative Tomjanovic. The word has a esteemed representative, Nikola Sopčić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-08-0.u16498	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam Minister, colleagues and colleagues. I support the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Spatial Planning with its final proposal. I would like to say that the existing 94 law has suffered a few minor changes, which already says that it has a certain quality, but I would refer to several of the most important provisions proposed by these amendments and additions. Thus, the determination of the protection of the coastal area that is most interesting for construction in Croatia today, and thus the most aggressive protection is the area of our coast, means these thousand meters in the land and 300 meters in the sea, and thus the obligation to adopt an urban plan so that it can be built at all, as well as the obligation and bring to the existing spatial plans, the consent of the restoring ministry. With this should increase I believe interest in building itself in places that are slightly further away from the coast where such a type of construction can also mean that apartment building is interesting for these areas. The amendments and additions also define the obligations of island municipalities to adopt a common spatial plan, which is certainly justified by planning to build a common transport municipal infrastructure as an inequality of the development of spatial plans on individual islands, and very often their mutual discrepancies. It is possible in Article 14 of this proposal to municipalities where the interest in building itself is less unfortunately and to invest itself in such areas, which are very often areas of special state concern and very often municipalities whose budget is generally low. These municipalities will be able to adopt a spatial plan of reduced content, which automatically means that the design of such a spatial plan itself will be cheaper and also the process of its adoption faster and simpler. Now allow a few words about the bill's proposal on, on the amendment and addition of the Construction Act. This proposal to amend the Construction Act significantly speeds up the construction permit process itself, which ultimately contributes to reducing the number of buildings built without a building permit, and what will also certainly cheer our builders up is the abolition of the obligation and passing of a professional examination every four years, which these changes found to be virtually unnecessary. Irregular construction is a big problem in our society, which is what we are witnessing now and the frequent news from the media, and I am convinced that simplifying the necessary documentation will be. the content of the main project primarily for family houses and also for simple buildings up to 400 square meters contribute that the parties will not need to continue to engage in illegal construction. These changes and additions speed up the process of notifying and participating neighbouring property owners in the process, means neighbouring real estate owners along the building particle, it has often been a big problem to get to the owners of these properties who are either absent or have a lot of co-owners on a particular property, and the process itself means their notification has often made it difficult to complete the process of entering the building permit itself. The process also slows down the slowness of gathering the necessary consensus on the main project. This proposal means that the proposal to hold a conference means that all parties to the procedure within 8 days means that the procedure is significantly accelerated since the application for a building permit, since in most offices the procedure takes a long time, especially in obtaining consent from certain public undertakings. The proposal itself to amend and supplement the Construction Act foresees an increase in the number of construction permits for which no building permit is required, so that is where there is an object with a building permit, thus discharging the Office of Construction from often unnecessary items. I believe that this Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Construction Act if we accept it, and I am convinced that almost all previous clubs and colleagues have spoken positively about these amendments, that it will simplify the very procedure for issuing the permit and this should result in the finality and by increasing the investment itself in the building. The fact is that despite the amendments to both of these laws in the process of the necessary permits, we still have two administrative acts, a location and a building permit in the process of obtaining the necessary permits, and I therefore welcome the Minister's announcement that this process will be united in the preparation of future legislation, which will certainly further speed up the construction process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-08-0.u16499	Thank you. Wesna Škulić, the distinguished representative, is next. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-08-0.u16500	Thank you. Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. For persons with mobility disability, it is not only about establishing relations in space and time but it is a significant prerequisite for achieving social contacts and independence. The integration of people with disabilities in everyday life depends greatly on how to address mobility issues. It is therefore important to provide people with disabilities with access to public areas, sports, cultural, residential and other facilities. Unfortunately, in Croatian practice it has not yet fully revived the systematic arrangement of access to public or residential facilities. Croatia adopted an accessibility document 22 years ago. If my discussion had been applied today, it would have gone in a completely different direction. I would probably talk about illegally built buildings, but I can't, because in Croatia there's never been a public facility that has never had an affordable approach for people with disabilities. There are 7,201 people living in a wheelchair in Croatia. 85,220 persons who have difficulty moving, and this number must be added to children in a wheelchair and older population. Because there were rules that had no sanctions for non-compliance with construction gauges, generations of people with disabilities were and were still excluded from society. From inaccessible kindergartens, schools, colleges, jobs, all public institutions have been systematically violated by human and all other rights persons with disabilities, disabled people entering the back entrance, standing at the foot of the stairs waiting for someone else to do the job for them. They end up in welfare institutions only because the school in their place is not accessible. By doing a survey on the accessibility of primary schools in the Republic of Croatia, I came up with devastating and humiliating data, only a few schools throughout the country met the accessibility criteria, otherwise that is 5 criteria. Approach ramp, custom toilet, elevator, door wider than 80 cm. That's why we mostly made our position accessible to the parole on the occasion of some of the dates that mattered to people with disabilities, we solved them by humanitarian actions. So all that was to be solved systemically we reduced to the level of humanitarian action from the access ramp to the installation of the elevator. Imagine a situation where your child cannot attend elementary school in his place because they are at the entrance stairs and therefore must be placed in an institution. I'm talking about intellectually healthy children with difficulty in moving. The ideal of accessibility moves in two directions, preventing the creation of new non-accessible buildings and space and adapting existing buildings and spaces to become accessible. In the event of a failure to comply with the provisions of the rules on the accessibility of an irresponsible person, they shall be called and sanctioned. In the part of adapting existing buildings and spaces to become accessible, there are three times. The rules set out the way, the way of political will and the voluntary path. The regulated route may be applied in cases where buildings and spaces are subject to ex post adjustment by the basis of a regulation rather than meeting and withdrawing the closure of a particular entrepreneurial situation. For example. A restaurant that won't get an extension of the work permit unless it's adjusted. It is clear that the suspension of entrepreneurship for any reason is not acceptable. These mechanisms must therefore be so designed as to ensure accessibility without causing job closure. The bigger problem will be the adaptation of citizens and spaces that must be accessible for reasons of services to citizens, the judiciary, administration, health care, education. These are services which cannot be withdrawn because the adjustment deadline has expired. On the other hand, the realisation of the adjustment depends on the budgetary resources, which suggests that political will, at regional or local level, is necessary for the successful implementation of such adjustment. As far as the voluntary route is concerned, the municipalities and cities are in the areas managed by the owners of individual buildings. It is expected that the general atmosphere of adaptation and availability to be implemented by the state administration through regulations, i.e. adaptation and accessibility resulting from political will will will have a positive impact on owners to accept the need for adaptation and accessibility of their... The larger or smaller free services provided by the State through a consultation centre, the foining of projects, donation guidance and tax exemption should contribute to that objective. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The National Single Policy Strategy for Persons with Disabilities from 2003 to 2006 adopted by the Croatian Parliament provides guidelines for action among others for housing, mobility and accessibility. Respecting these measures by supporting both legislative proposals, the Law on Construction and the Law on Spatial Planning and respecting the rights to life and dignity of persons with disabilities Croatia is heading towards becoming a country to every human being and respecting the right to access. And finally, something personal, speaking of availability, colleagues and fellow MPs, please don't park on the entrance ramp here at the entrance to the Assembly. It happens that because of your wrong parking I sometimes can't get to my place of work. Thank you for respecting the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-08-0.u16501	I thank the honourable representative. The word has a respected representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-08-0.u16502	Mr. Vice-President, the respected representatives of the ministry, colleagues and colleagues, it seems to me that in my presentation, I am referring to the need to adopt this Law because the predecessors have done so many times, so I will concentrate on the specific articles that seem questionable to me, and in fact to these proposals I have come in cooperation with the profession, with all those who have already participated in the drafting of the draft documents which this law, which are concerned. Let me, therefore, first of all, make your remarks to the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Construction Act. Article 19 of the text states that the main project of family houses contains the situation as set out in criterion 1:1000. According to the profession, it would be much better if it were 1 500. Or even 1:200. So that's the first proposal. Article 22 of the text indicates investor protection if the party initiates an administrative dispute. I believe that a party protection mechanism should be installed which is also evident because it is also important at the very least. So in Articles 29 to 35, I think one of my predecessors has already talked about the proposed way of informing parties, he is not really available to all interested. And it would be good to inform the parties in writing of the procedure in accordance with the General Administrative Procedure Act. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. And I think that we should replace it with the power of power, I think that this is a nomotechnical nature, and that we should actually talk about a mistake, given that the text of the bill states that construction can start after the power of the permit building, and in this case the word "final" seems to me that it is wrong, maybe I'm wrong. I also think that the deviation from the main report by 20% might be a little too much, maybe you should consider making it 10%. In Article 62, when it comes to the costs of carrying out an inspection solution, I am not sure that these costs should be taken over by local self-government units but exclusively by investors who have deviated from the main project or from a valid building permit. I think that would significantly burden the budgets of local self-government units that don't have such funds planned or if they plan to plan them in small, simply small financial frameworks, so it's over, almost impossible to implement. In fact, how could small municipalities that have significant resources in which, unfortunately, illegal construction is taking place, in which they could actually plan these funds at all, because these funds might significantly exceed the total budgets. This is Article 62. 67. In 67, Article 67 shall abolish the violation of the official duties of the person authorised to conduct the authorisation procedure, or its responsibility. I don't think that's good. And in Article 68, the responsibility of official inspection supervision is completely abolished by this proposal, which is also not very logical. These two articles should be considered. Let me continue with the evidence on the amendment bill and the amendments to the law on spatial planning. Article 16 states that an idea solution can be drawn up by a person who is an authorised architect or an authorised engineer of a construction profession depending on the type of procedure in space. According to the profession, the authorised engineer of the construction profession does not have enough vocational education from urbanism. So it's questionable whether he can be competent enough to make an idea solution. That's questionable by profession. Article 21(3) of the text states that the body responsible for issuing the local permit is to issue a solution for the building particle or land necessary for the regular use of the building. On the basis of the document of spatial arrangement but also in accordance with the rules of the profession. This, in line with the rules of the profession, is a fairly broad and flexible concept that should be defined a little more clearly, however. In the view of the legal profession, paragraph 2 of Article 43a is not in line with the Constitutional Court's decision, I have the decision here in question and I will deliver it to you later, under which Article 367 was abolished. Law on ownership and other real rights, National Journal 91/96. It should therefore be verified whether this item is indeed in conformity with the Constitutional Court’s decision to remain in this text of the legislative proposal at all. This Regulation shall enter The article states that no urban planning can be built within the coastal area. I think that the article should be complemented that it cannot be built unless it has been adopted except for UPO to be either a GUP or a detailed plan of arrangements in accordance with Article 24, 26, 26b) and the 27th amendment and addition of the Law on Spatial Planning since 1998, which says whether infrastructures are located outside the borders of the construction area and adaptations and so on and so on. Finally, Article 39 states that the municipalities, cities and counties are liable for the spatial plans set out in Article 23 of this Act until the entry into force of this Act, the consent of the Ministry shall be determined. I think it would be good if for the spatial plans that are in the process of adoption i.e. The final proposal for the plan, for which consent and opinions under specific laws have been obtained, should be allowed to apply the plan exclusively for the protection of space, as the absence of spatial plans continues to create a mess in space. Here are the suggestions I say that are coordinated with the profession. I'll leave you with this section regarding the Constitutional Court's decision, so I'm asking you to check it again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-08-0.u16503	I thank the esteemed representative Matusic. The word has a distinguished representative, Vladimir Plesko.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-08-0.u16504	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Madam Minister. A few just sentences since much has already been said here today in this honorable home on laws on pro-prostolic changes and additions to the Law on Spatial Planning and Construction, so I would only from my own personal experience since I was the head of the four-year body of local self-government for spatial planning, for spatial planning for municipal activity. What else is going on in the premises of local self-government units? In any case, these laws should also be observed through the prism of the Law on Land Books because there are all three laws in correlation and there is simply a problem if the Law on Land Books does not fix certain things and we have seen this in the previous debate. So in part of the plot in, the library plots means what's in the land books. It is also normal for the parcelation and cadastral bases to directly affect the production of spatial planning documentation because in many environments there is a problem in understanding what a plot is, which is covered or not covered by meaning by spatial planning. Also, these scales affect frequent changes in spatial planning documentation because when someone wants to build his family home, they require municipal city heads or councils to change and supplement spatial plans so that they can build on their plots and family houses. And when we take all of this into account together, then we all find that one of us is reluctantly hearing a problem, which is the possibility of abuse of space, abuse of power in the meaning of local self-government units in part means making spatial planning documentation how it suits someone or how it suits certain powers in certain units of local self-government. For this already happened here today, they set an example of fellow MPs when they said that even a list for the city council was created in one municipality or city, which sought to amend and supplement spatial planning documents. It should also be, to shorten the debate, to mention one of my visions of Article 23. The Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Spatial Planning, which is not only in my opinion that it should be limited to the Urbanist Plan, but perhaps even to a detailed plan of arrangement of this area 1000 meters along with the meaning of the seashore. Perhaps with some smaller criteria in terms of municipal infrastructure, telephony but in any case in these plans, detailed arrangements to include roads, footsteps and similar, similar parts of municipal infrastructure. And it also seems to me that the question of what is with those parts also means to those units of local self-government and control over the spatial planning documentation that already exists because it is said here that within 60 days it will be banned from giving, that everything after that will go to control in, on the opinion of the Ministry, but what about the spatial-planning documentation that has been brought in, adopted and on the basis of which local and construction permits are issued. It's one of the questions that needs to be taken into consideration, and normally then solve if they're not dealt with by law. And further to the end of this long discussion of these problems today, I should further mention one problem as, in fact, two problems as the conclusion of this debate, which is the fact that, in some subsequent changes and additions to this spatial plan, legislation should also consider a minimum period between changes and the addition of spatial-planned documentation, as frequent changes and additions to spatial-planned documentation in some units of local self-government have exactly been appropriated to that abuse, so I believe that the minimum time between individual changes and additions should be at least 5 years, and all of which should be excluded for the urgent needs of municipal infrastructure units of local self-government or state projects and investment. And another proposal for the future means changes and additions, which is to give consent to spatial-planning documentation by the local self-government border units. I know it's hard to imagine this, but sometimes in some areas some facilities of municipal infrastructure such as roads and I don't say another problem of dumps are placed along the edge areas and other neighbouring units of local self-government can't practically influence it, or that there's just one of the similar problems we've been dealing with recently on the assembly board of performances and complaints. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-08-0.u16505	Thank you. The word has a distinguished representative, Jagoda Martic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-08-0.u16506	Dear Vice President, Ms. Secretary, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. I will not spend words on the opening part in describing the situation in space, I think today from all debates and clubs and individual ones it is clear to us all and how, that we are all well aware of this bad situation. After all, this is also an introductory part of these draft laws by the ministry clearly. And listed. In the end, it was also the reason why the ministry was in some way forced by an emergency procedure to bring or overrun the Assembly by the adoption of proposals of these two laws. I would say as we all agreed in the debate that they should be supported in a certain way, but I would also insist that it is obvious that these laws are so to say, fire measures that it is trying to save that still save Idea. And that the reading is manifested, that is, the need for the adoption of a new fundamental law on spatial planning and construction, and therefore we look forward to and welcome the secretary's statement that this is planned, i.e. that the ministry is this and that it is conscious and that it is planned by the end of this year. So here are a few of my thoughts on certain provisions of the proposed laws. First of all, on the law on spatial planning, I will mostly be on it and based on it, in the opening part, a drop in the quality of urban planning, insufficient operational surveillance and insufficient quality of the profession is observed among other things. It now raises the question of what is the status and position of urbanists in the first place, the urbanists are mostly in the gap between the interests of architects, who again represent the interests of investors between the interests of local self-government units who again very often represent investors' interests. Therefore, urbanist status should be changed they should actually be in the status of civil servants and then would not act as so far as to say, free shooters. Articles 2 and 3 regulate who can draw up spatial plans and expert bases for the issue of location permits. Therefore, a legal person registered to carry out the professional work of spatial planning is listed and then authorised architects who perform the professional affairs of spatial planning on their own, and each of the other shall give consent without which they cannot carry out the professional affairs of spatial planning. The submission of an expert examination shall give rise to the conditions for the independent performance of the tasks. However, the expert exam itself does not guarantee that this person has ever worked in urban affairs before. Therefore, when granting consent by the ministry, it should be mandatory to take into account the expert reference or prior experience that the person has in the affairs of urbanism or spatial planning. I'm sure that helped raise the quality of the design of spatial plans. A council has been formed with the aim of ensuring conditions for a more even space development of the state. So Article 9 of the current law states that the advice is made up of professional, scientific politicians, public and other employees. I believe that the main focus should be placed on the profession in the council, so that as many members of the council come from the ranks of the profession, we leave the political part to someone else, and finally here, for example. The political body is also a parliamentary committee on spatial planning and environmental protection. The draft law amending and supplementing the construction law provides for the establishment of a committee and commission. And I have to admit that I'm not completely clear about the role of committees and committees for which they wouldn't be useful, but the existing institutions somehow seem to me like this is actually unnecessary duplication. If these bodies are already formed, I stress once again that the weight of the body is to be given to the profession. The law itself will not solve much if certain sublaws are not passed along with it, in proposals for transitional and final provisions, the government undertakes to adopt certain acts, in order to allow for the effective implementation of the proposed measures. I hope that this will be respected because without these provisions there will be no effect, nor will we propose amendments to the laws that are before us. One more thing that should be changed is the rule of making spatial plans, namely, the whole system, in my opinion, is expensive, unreal for our condition, is general and out of date and should be adapted to our opportunities both in terms of sugar and bone. We have poor small municipalities that are simply unable to finance their own plans. It is therefore necessary to welcome some of the amendments proposed by this law, which are precisely aimed at speeding up and facilitating the development of spatial plans and entire spatial documentation. Thus, Articles 5 and 6 of the obligations to draw up a report on the space and programme of measures to improve the situation in the area from two years to four years shall be increased. In addition, Article 11 allows for the development of joint spatial plans of the municipalities of coke located on the same island, and Article 14 allows for the development of simpler spatial plans for the arrangement of municipalities which are found not to have sufficient financial resources for the development of these plans if no significant development is planned on them. And surely those are provisions to be welcomed. The administrative process of drawing up plans is well imagined but in practice it does not work properly. The law says that spatial plans for urban and municipal planning are being passed by city councils or municipal councils, according to the attached consent of the county administration office in compliance with the county's spatial plan. And it's 60 days. At the end of the whole story, the Ministry of Agriculture needs to give an opinion on the spatial plan, and the ministry of agriculture is not covered by the legal deadline of 2 months. And because of all of this, the whole procedure has been extended and extended for up to a year. And not to say that often the individuals of local self-government do not respond to the adoption of spatial plans because in this case they can create those famous DPUs that are most often made at the request of investors and the adoption of spatial plans makes it impossible. So once again, we come up with issues that have already been highlighted several times in the debates, issues of truly real political will, especially to local administration units. And it seems to me that with once and for all the efforts both of the ministries and ministers as big as they've been, but here's what they find on cases like this, they can't be effective enough. As a result, the deadline for the adoption of spatial plans has already been extended several times, and I am afraid that the deadline of 31 December 200.5, as proposed now, is not realistic. And I think that we should go to really drastic measures in case of non-respectable deadlines because it seems to me the only way that units of local administrations are forced to carry out their legal obligations. Surely the most vulnerable and sensitive part of Croatia is in terms of devasting the coastal part. I'm sure there's not a single representative in this hall that comes from the sea, from some municipality or city on our coast that's not conscious who, or who doesn't, we all have similar stories, about disrupting the beauty of our neighborhood. Of course, unscrupulous and extremely impertinent investors and builders. I come from Makarska, a city that is famous for its unique beauty and little where such harmony and beauty and a combination of the sea, land and mountains can be found in the world. This beauty has attracted and still attracts many tourists from Croatia and the world, but I do question when tourists will come to admire and enjoy the beauty of Makarska and Biokova, because this beauty is seriously marred by illegal building and devastation of space. The interest in capital and profit has obviously become primal, nothing is sacred to him, and in order to make a profit, they are not overcome by anything. The spacious Macarska plan has been brought for a long time, and here I have information that even today the headship has not passed, but that is why we often get the DPUs on the city council, which then some interests are trying to come true. I see my time is at an end, nothing but a closing sentence. I truly welcome these efforts from a thousand meters to protect the coast, to save what is left to be saved that and once again here is my support for the adoption of these amendments to the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-08-0.u16507	I thank the honourable representative. The word has an esteemed representative, Irena Archel.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-08-0.u16508	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Madam Minister, assistant ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs. These days we are all witnessing the destruction of illegally built buildings in Croatia, and the illegal construction has particularly taken hold on the Adriatic coast. Non-compliance with existing regulations and laws as well as ineffective inspection and inappropriate penalties have caused concreteisation and arbitration of the Adriatic coast. In this way, the territory of the Republic of Croatia is used irrationally and unacceptablely as a special treasure. Often, land is used irrationally for construction in settlements with insufficient municipal infrastructure and insufficient environmental protection and economic development of municipalities and cities. In many coastal small settlements that do not have a well-solved water supply and sewerage, Stychihski is zero apartments, thus jeopardizing the standard of the native population. It is therefore necessary to adopt a new Law on Spatial Planning in order to introduce order into construction and to stop further devasting of the area especially of the Adriatic coast as quickly as possible. I particularly welcome the provision of laws relating to coastal and island protection by declaring a protected coastal area that covers thousands of meters of land and 300 metres of sea from the coastal line. This area should be covered by specific measures to protect further building of apartments that are often built for housing, and in reality are used to rent tourists. Such apartments are mainly built on the entire surface of a building plot without any additional facilities. It's rarely concrete buildings without garages, parking lots and green areas. This only disrupts the appearance of the site and burdens the under-developed municipal infrastructure anyway. Owners rent such apartments to tourists on black, thus jeopardising the existence of a domestic population that has been engaged in tourism for years, living and paying taxes to the state neatly. Uncontrollably renting apartments that are often illegally built cause great damage to tourism and the state budget. It is common in our islands that have more units of local self-government that their spatial plans are out of line and rarely and contrary to each other. I therefore believe that the new provisions of the Law on the adoption of a common spatial plan of arrangements will benefit the development of the island, and if these units of local self-government do not do so within the deadline, that plan will be adopted by the County Assembly. Many small municipalities did not bring their own spatial plans due to lack of funding. I think it is good that municipalities who do not have enough financial resources to develop spatial plans and who do not plan for a more significant development are allowed to adopt simpler spatial plans that must be in line with the county spatial plans. It is good to take care of the financial opportunities of such municipalities, but it should also consider reviving the economy of such municipalities, hiring the population and raising the standard of living of undeveloped municipalities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-08-0.u16509	Thank you. The word has a respected representative Zdenko Antešić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-08-0.u16510	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Vice President, Madam Minister, colleagues and colleagues. I'll say a few words about some of the provisions of the Law on Spatial Planning. Namely, we have witnessed excessive construction on our coast and also its merciless devastations. This law has the intention to reduce excessive construction by its provisions first and clearly protect the coastal belt which I welcome in any case. However, in the atmosphere of general deception and the desire for rapid profit, we are witnessing unscrupulous attacks on coastal space. This includes landowners, projectors, construction entrepreneurs, real estate dealers, various speculators and many others who are blinded by the possibility of fast earnings are ruthlessly spending our most valuable resource. The local community is the only tool and the means to combat it is to adopt a spatial plan. However, all other procedures such as the issue of local and construction permits, construction control, construction inspection and the process of removing illegal facilities are in the hands of the body of the state administration or ministries over which the local communities have no influence. Therefore, these bodies also bear great responsibility for the existing situation in space. I believe that some of these procedures should be brought down to a local level, which, in my court, would achieve greater efficiency and control of the situation in space. I acknowledge the minister's determination in the struggle to create order in space and, as a colleague has previously pointed out, many other ministers could look up to her. In the proposed legislative solution, however, there are some questions that need to be given a clear answer, as it enters into the essence and core of life on the coast. Personally, I can testify to the pleasures of making spatial plans on our islands where very often, because of the reasons mentioned before and the desire to make a quick profit, the principle of my plot, my urbanism, applies as a rule. In practice, there are different situations. There are environments that have come up with spatial plans, there are those that are in the adoption phase and there are those that have not begun the procedure. Therefore, in the regulation to be passed by the ministry, a clear distinction should be made between these environments so that the environments that have adopted spatial plans would not be hampered in their development. The second issue is financing urban planning. On a concrete example of the island of Rab, they can say that based on the plans of measures and the spatial plan of the city of Rab, 41 urban planning should be made with a total of about 650 hectares of surface area, which is about 6.5 million kuna according to the cost of drawing up plans. So it's an old law where the width of the protected belt is cca 100 meters. The new solution expands the area ten times, about ten times as many as a thousand meters, which is about 65 million kuna. I wonder within what time-limit these plans will be able to finance units of local self-government, which generally have relatively small budgets. So I'm afraid that some of the provisions of this law are inconclusive in practice and can cause the effect of complete life-blocking. I certainly support the measure to force local self-government units to make plans. I support this law as a fire-fighting measure to stop a mess in space, but I believe that, as it is said, it is necessary to pass a whole law that requires a full analysis of how the current situation in the space and the necessary means are required, because otherwise, the law will be in practice inconclusive. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-08-0.u16511	Thank you. The word has a distinguished representative, Mato Gavran.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-08-0.u16512	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Madam Minister, colleagues and colleagues. This is despite the fact that a lot of things have been said I will continue where my predecessor has clearly stopped that this really is a major problem or management of space is one of the fundamental problems of all of us, from the local self-government units or from the citizens of the units of local self-government, to the state as a whole. Unfortunately, we are all witnessing a major devastation of space and the general problem that is put before us both before the Ministry or the Government as a whole and how to prevent the devastation of how to protect space and use it to the maximum rationally to ensure that space is indeed a difficult renewable resource and, unfortunately, maximum vulnerability. The effects of the situation on the ground are well - known to all of us, and in this many of my predecessors have spoken of it. What the legislator's intentions are extremely clear to the maximum rational use and master space to plan maximum use of space and to protect it. The solutions that are offered I dare to argue myself that they are indeed a fire-fighting measure because the question is whether we will be able to close or reconcile life and what legal solutions offer by respecting the fact that 1000 meters from the sea and 300 meters on the sea itself is a really big space, and that, on the other hand, all local self-government units do not have enough at this time, unfortunately, of interest and not enough money. The consequences of this Law are to ensure maximum protection of space, to influence quality and timely planning, to speed up planning and to stop wild construction in particular. I'm going to try to help with my thinking if I can say that we can bring as much quality law as possible, which, fortunately, will have a short breath, because as the minister announced by the end of the year, a whole new law that I'm sure I'm not going to give up on the experience this law will already give quality new solutions. So let me take my turn. In Article 11, I think it would be a good idea to think about who is coordinating the development of spatial plans on islands when it comes to not only units of local self-government, I don't think it's a rare case of the island of Pag being the best example when we have two units of regional or regional, we have two counties, how to synchronise all these activities, how to simply lead all units of local self-government to run at the same time in the design of spatial planning documentation, because neither are all units fiscally able to move at the same time nor are likely to have the same objectives. It is likely that certain units of local self-government will do spatial planning documentation in accordance with Article 14 with reduced content because there is obviously no need for the entire island to work on such detailed plans. Furthermore, I think that in terms of clarification, many colleagues have talked about land parceling within the construction area, so Article 20, I think it would be more precise to say that it is the boundaries of the built-up construction area that are then not built if I am well aware of the parcel itself which is covered in this article. All doubts would be kept that way eliminated. At least I'm not familiar with it, or I can't figure out what land plots are about within the boundaries of building land and land plots beyond those borders. Is there one construction area the only question is whether it was built or not. Therefore, it may also be possible that this finding of built building land can be incorporated into Article 43b, respectively, in Article 21. In any case, it is commendable that the Ministry has also made a commitment that despite what is likely to be expected, it will be buried with those units of local self-government that have already passed the spatial planning documents and that will require that it be quick to comply with the legislator, asking the Ministry for an indication, and I also commend the efforts that the ministry will do because they are obviously... on their own, because within 60 days it is truly short of respect for everything that should be done on that plan. When it comes to Article 21, I think it would be good to lay down at least minimum conditions because, as a result of the reading of this Act, it will be resolved from case to case or discretionary right of those who conduct the procedure. I know that this is quite difficult to predict given everything that life has brought to itself over the past time as perhaps thinking about how to prescribe these minimum conditions which is the necessary part of the plot for which it serves as a regular use of the building. As far as I can remember, Mr. Shirtz's rule has not been passed, and it's in practice causing really big problems. So much for the Space Planning Act, maybe a few words about the Construction Act. In Article 19, I think it would be a good idea to think if I had read the law's inputs well that for the main project of family houses it would be possible for an authorised engineer to create a project of the house himself, so also a statistic and a scheme of installations, I think that the good experiences we have had so far are one integration of the professions that ultimately aim at a maximum professional approach and primary protection of investors in the final. Because I hold that no matter how much experience one man can't know everything about both the current and the drain and the sewerage, and about the static, there's nothing left to count. I, of course, also welcome the reduction in the content shown in Article 24 of the request, which is actually the basis for the request for a building permit. And I also welcome all of this which will be done by the bodies performing the procedure in terms of obtaining certificates and compliance of the main project with all the laws, but in Article 27, I think it would also be good to define a time limit within which bodies participating in the construction permit process should be made clear to the body that is carrying out this procedure because it is not defined here, in the later prescribed and written time-limit. Probably some other laws if you thought it backed up. And now we're at the end. I think we all need to make sure together that we don't just pass as high-quality laws as possible, but that we primarily work on how to implement the laws. So allow me, I think my colleague Markov was talking about that, about the experiences. I have the same example where gentlemen who bought a business space 11 years ago have a problem because they can't get a valid permit because that building that's obviously multi-story because it contains, consisting of 40 apartments, 35 garages, 7 business spaces, just doesn't have a building permit. All his efforts to solve this problem have come upon the wall of silence. It cannot be allowed to work because everything previously has not been solved, so it is simply an inspection that literally applies the existing law because the inspection if nothing else has already established that there is no building permit as it is other buildings, it would be good to issue a solution for the collapse, and then will force all other tenants or owners of both business facilities and, as well as apartments to engage in the entry of a building permit because simply everyone, all efforts of the gentleman in question remain in the wind. I apologize for something longer, Mr. Vice President, but I... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-08-0.u16513	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-08-0.u16514	And an appeal to get rid of it.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-08-0.u16515	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative Zdravko Sočković.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-08-0.u16516	Dear Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Ms. Minister, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs. I want to discuss the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Construction Act. The government proposed that the Law be adopted by an emergency procedure although the Construction Act came into force only on 1 January 2004, which regulates the design, construction, structure of the construction inspection, the implementation of administrative and other procedures and the rights and obligations of the state administration and legal and physical persons in this respect. We can freely ask why the amendments and additions of the law that came into force six months ago are already needed. But I am convinced and this was seen through the meetings of the Assembly Committees that we are all aware of the importance of adopting the proposed Emergency Act in order to create the necessary conditions for rational use and management of the coastal area of the sea and continental areas which are not sufficiently developed and allow for more efficient construction land in all units of local self-government. This specifically refers to units of local self-government in the coastal area where due to the great demand for building land and the greatest violation of this Law that is so not respected that it makes no sense to abuse your time by listing countless such examples. In particular, in the coastal area, more effective implementation of the Law on Construction and the Law on the municipal economy is needed. The effective implementation of the law will create conditions to prevent harmful occurrences in space as well as the conditions for the resolution of the consequences resulting because it is indeed high time to start applying and implementing the law regardless of who is the offender which has not been usual so far. Although it has been a while since the law was in direct application by ensuring that it was implemented, it has been observed that certain provisions of this Act in practice and are not enforceable and certain provisions make it difficult and expensive to implement it. It is also evident that some institutes of this Law are not clearly prescribed enough, so over-explanatory interpretations and explanations are often required. Slow and difficult licensing, legal uncertainty of citizens and other legal entities is only due to such a situation. All of the above points to the urgent need to take appropriate measures to remove the observed deficiencies in order to avoid economic disturbances. First of all, when investing in the area of construction and reducing the financing and turnover of capital in the area, this would certainly lead to an increase in illegal construction that took too much of a wave anyway. These amendments and the amendments to the Law will deal with some basic issues, above all, will reduce the number of certificates and opinions on the idea of the main project, reduce the documentation needed to issue a building permit, simplify the process of issuing a building permit, reduce the mandatory content of the main project for the family house and one essential element. The obligation to pass an expert examination for the construction work is deleted every 4 years, which we believe to have been absurd so far. It is a significant amendment to the proposed Law relating to coastal and island protection, declaring a protected coastal area that covers 1000 metres of land and 300 metres of sea from the coastal line. The possibility of sanctioning units of local self-government that do not bring a spatial plan within the prescribed time limit where measures and disbanding councils can be taken will certainly be very effective on the ground and force local self-government units to complete this important job. The need to adopt amendments to the Construction Act is unquestionable. Although we are aware that even these amendments and additions will not solve all problems and that in due course it will be necessary to propose a new law that would address this complex problem in a comprehensive way. I would still say that the Minister has announced such a law by the end of the year. I think we can only commend the work of both the Ministers and the Ministry, and certainly we will support this bill. Thank you. [[Intruder: Like everyone else.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-08-0.u16517	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative Antun Perushko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-08-0.u16518	Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam Minister, colleagues and colleagues have moved away from the time and debate. I'll just say a few sentences, I'll give up the debate that I've prepared because there's a lot of it and it's mostly what I meant to say, but the debate itself indicates which was where a consensus was almost reached in the debate that will certainly be expressed in the vote, the responsibilities that parliamentary representatives have in relation to protecting the country's most important resource, it's space. But he's also talking about it, regardless of what's being said here, he's talking about some kind of fire-fighting solution that Mrs. Secretary has just hit the right solutions that would aim to prevent further devastation of our space. In the Istrian County, space-planning documentation of the county also envisioned this coastal belt and beyond what the law predicts from 1500 meters, however, the situation is almost catastrophic and this will not prevent illegal construction which is the biggest problem and we welcome and personally all those, those efforts that go in the direction of preventing illegal construction and the announced amendments to the Penal Code in which this illegal construction would be qualified as a criminal offence. In preparation for this debate, I consulted people in the county, in some cities in the Istrian county, and there were several concerns that the Minister’s opening statement and later address made clear, so there was no need for me to repeat these questions here and to simply waste time. The only question left of the people who are working on it... is whether for 6 months or a year because they express concern that regardless of the legal provision and existence and political will and any other, and even in the situation that there are funds, they are concerned whether those who need to make that documentation can arrive in that time frame. It's the only doubt left that I've been told by people who deal with this problem. And I welcome this announcement by the minister who said here, from her words it is visible that life will not stand in those areas no matter how much it looked at first sight and I would be much happier, not because I do not believe it, although I believe if that attitude was confirmed by the Government, in a situation where the whole new law was announced at this point has nothing better than simply to support the proposed amendments proposed by the minister to the Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-08-0.u16519	Thank you very much. Do you? ...the list of speakers, does Mrs. Secretary want to conclude? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-08-0.u16520	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen, I thank you for this discussion. I have to admit that this kind of discussion of the spatial planning law wasn't, and that's why I'm very glad because every time it's kind of skipped out, people are leaving, but there's still a part of the people here and you can see that you're very interested in it. We all supported these amendments and additions to these two laws, we commit that those of you from the discussion of yours that you said that we would draw these ideas for the next law, some amendments will be accepted and here I thank you, and it is safe if you remember something if you think we should do something now while we do this concept of law and we will make a proposal for a new law come and we are ready to cooperate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-08-0.u16521	I thank the minister. I am concluding the debate on the final draft law amending and supplementing the laws on spatial planning and amending and supplementing the laws on construction. The vote will be tomorrow.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-08-0.u16522	Final proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Spatial Planning, emergency procedure, first and second reading, Bill No 129. The debate on the text of the law is over, we have a table with amendments. Minister Marina Matulović-Dropulić, please. Amendment number one of the respected representative Mark Shirtz.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-08-0.u16523	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-08-0.u16524	Thank you for becoming an integral part of the law. 2nd Amendment of the HSS Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-08-0.u16525	It is accepted in part by saying, "It is not allowed to land land beyond the boundaries of the building area to increase the building particle within the building area."
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-08-0.u16526	Dear representative Ljubica Lalić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-08-0.u16527	I thank Madam Minister, we accept the amended content and therefore withdraw such an amendment as we have suggested.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-08-0.u16528	Thank you very much. Therefore, the agreed amendment of the Government and the amendment promoters in this text as an integral part of the Law has been adopted unanimously. 3. The Committee on Spatial Planning and Environmental Protection.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-08-0.u16529	It is accepted in part, in a way that instead of a period of 6 months, we introduce a period of 10 months.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-08-0.u16530	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-08-0.u16531	Thank you very much. It is also in line with this text as it is agreed to become an integral part of the Law. 4. also the Committee on Spatial Planning and Environmental Protection.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-08-0.u16532	It shall be accepted in part because it cannot enter into force 15 days from the date of entry into force of the law but only from the date of entry into force of the Regulation, and then it would only read as follows: "The municipalities, cities and counties referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article shall be obliged to submit the spatial plans to the Ministry for approval within 15 days of the date of entry into force of the regulations referred to in Article 54(1). The law on spatial planning of the National Journal No. 30/94, 68/98, 61/00 and 32/02, and the current paragraph 2 becomes paragraph 3.".
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-08-0.u16533	The Honorable Chairman of the Committee, Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-08-0.u16534	A proposal is being accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-08-0.u16535	Thank you very much in a changed form has been agreed and becomes an integral part of the Law. Amendment of Honorable Representative Zdenko Antesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-08-0.u16536	It shall be accepted in part to read: "The consent referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article shall be made to the Ministry within 60 days of the date of receipt of the request. In case he does not give consent within the prescribed time limit, it will be considered that the agreement is due."
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-08-0.u16537	Dear Representative Antesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-08-0.u16538	Thank you very much for giving up this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-08-0.u16539	Thank you. Amendment withdrawn. In fact, according to the government, and in this text it becomes an integral part of the law. Thank you very much. And the sixth amendment of the House of Representatives Club of the HSS.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-08-0.u16540	It is not accepted because this issue is addressed by a regulation on the protection and regulation of the protected coastal belt.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-08-0.u16541	Thank you very much. Dear representative Lalic. It withdraws the amendment proposal. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Restraint? I find that, unanimously with 88 votes, the proposed Law was adopted in the text as proposed by the Proposer together with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-08-0.u16654	We're going to the 11th point of the agenda. - Final proposal for a double-use export law, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 78. The Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, you received the proposal by mail. In the case of the adoption of this Act, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the Law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Economic Affairs, Development and Reconstruction and the Committee on European Integration. You received the report at the session. Does the applicant's representative wish to further explain the proposal? Proposer's representative, here you go, Mr. Minister. Mr. Minister Branko Vukelic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-08-0.u16655	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. I will, however, brief a few sentences and familiarize myself with the final proposal for a double-use export law that was first read at the 6th session of the Croatian Parliament on 30 April. I do not need to repeat because I think we all know the importance and importance of this Law is also the basis for the signing of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement for our country, so we need to bring our legislation in line with the legal property of the Euro Community in the field of export control of dual-use goods. This Act is now governed by the general system of export controls of dual-purpose goods including computer programmes and technologies that can be used for civil and military purposes. What this Final Proposal of the Law differs from the first proposal is that, following the observations and discussions here in the Assembly following the observations and the parliamentary committees that we have observed the most of these remarks and have brought this text of the Law into line with those observations, above all, in that section relating to the mandatory inclusion of experts from science and the economy in the production of dual-purpose goods rules, however, we are all aware that we know that this is an extremely extensive business of labelling and grading of dual-purpose goods in which a large number of experts should be included, harmonising this regulation with internationally agreed supervision of exports of goods with dual purpose, this period of six months I think that it is necessary to remain fully and truly necessary. The final proposal for a law lays down that dual-purpose goods can only be exported on the basis of an export licence issued by the Ministry of Economy on the basis of a proposal from the Commission appointed by the Minister of Economy. The commission shall consist of representatives of foreign and internal affairs, defence, customs and economy ministries and also of the involvement of other experts in the work of the commission may also be representatives of other bodies depending on the end-user of nature or type of goods. It was also the deadline for issuing the proposal's authorisation that it was not possible to shorten that deadline for 60 days because it is also known, based on international practice, that it was very sensitive cases where a truly comprehensive, precise verification and control was required and that we know that the consequences that could be with the export of such goods could indeed be harmful to our country. Therefore, the Ministry will issue export licences in cases where these controls are simpler and easier and within a short period of 60 days but if special checks are required then this 60-day period from practice is repeated, and other countries are quite appropriate. One of the important changes in the final proposal for a law on the export of dual-purpose goods are fines for legal persons and craftsmen, they are far more than it was in the bill of law, the foundation, the increase of those penalties I think is also me to all of you, high penalties are necessary for the violation of this Law to simply be effective in order to deter the infringements because I repeat these violations can cause great harm to our country in a sensitive area. Other amendments to the text of the final proposal for a double-use export law are aimed at simplifying the interpretation of the law in order to ensure a clearer clarity of application of the law itself, I repeat, for the implementation of this Act, necessary in the State budget for 2005, the funding of a million kuna. The application of the Law is initiated on 1 January 2005, following the adoption of implementing rules which will allow for the full application of this Act. The Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship assumes the obligation to organise a seminar for businessmen in order to know about the issue of this law, and I propose that the Croatian Parliament accept the proposal of this Law and that we can move towards the preparation and preparation of all the implementing acts necessary and necessary for the Law to be applied from 1 January 2005. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-08-0.u16656	Thank you very much, Minister Branko Vukelic. Do the Committee's rapporteurs want to take the floor? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, Mr Krešimir Ćosic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-08-0.u16657	Dear Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. This proposal for a law on the export of dual-use goods seems to me to be much more thoughtful, however, for various reasons we will talk about it very briefly, it seems to me that some important things pass quickly next to us do not see their full importance. Why? The discussion of the Double-Intent Export Act as shown seems to be the only reason why we are talking about it is good against terrorism, preventing the proliferation of materials and goods that can be misused for unacceptable purposes. But also when we talk about dual-purpose goods, we could also talk about high technologies, expertise, advanced technologies, economic structure, etc. It is said clearly that dual-purpose goods, these are goods that include various technologies, various hardware, software, i.e. computer programmes that can be used for both civil and military purposes and as such should be subject to effective controls on exports from the Republic of Croatia. An effective general system of export control of dual-purpose goods is necessary to respect international obligations and responsibilities of the Republic of Croatia in particular through the contribution to preventing the spread of weapons of mass destruction. and in order to work in a high-quality manner for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Home Affairs, Defence, Customs and Economy, and depending on the end-user of nature or type of goods, representatives of other authorities of the state administration responsible for this problem, as the minister said and the relevant experts, because arbitration on the fact that the goods are double purposes and are neither simple, can be extremely complex and therefore special expertise is very often and important. However, Croatia has no particular problems, I would say, in exporting what is originally a dual purpose product resulting from the Croatian economy, science and technology, because in this sense we are unfortunately producing little. It also points out, among other things, that both this law and its quality implementation are obligations and is related to a wide range of international agreements such as the Vasseran arrangement in the control of the export of conventional weapons, then the control regime of rocket technologies, groups to prevent the spread of nuclear weapons, etc. and a whole series of different international agreements regulates these issues that are extremely important for global security. Where does it go, and how does it happen? You simply order certain equipment from abroad, declare it, that you will use it for certain civilian purposes, declare yourself as an end-user, and you simply instead of using this product in some medical applications or projects, you are retransfering it and giving it to a group that instead of medical applications works I don't know on a project of some head for just running some missiles, etc. and you become part of a system that is dangerous to international security and therefore such restrictions and special attention to these technologies and these goods are now very relevant. In addition, exporting does not involve exclusive exports of hardware, technology, but it refers to another technology that is of great importance, which is the transfer of computer programs, but also the transfer of knowledge, i.e. Technology, i.e. knowledge contained in the relevant documents, the relevant part of which, here formally writes, read by telephone or fax can cause the same results, the same consequences. And here's an example I remember when I started working almost 30 years ago as a young engineer, and then an old professor gave me four numbers on the table and he said, "Cresso for these four numbers you can get a million dollars." I was surprised and I said why, he said aerodynamic derivatives for one rocket and working on that project, on these numbers lasted several years, aerodynamic tunnels I don't know then a large hydropower plant worked for almost a year just to secure electricity with these aerodynamic tunnels so that they could conduct aerodynamic tests etc. You get four numbers and you just sell those four numbers over the phone to someone and that's one good illustration of how much some knowledge actually has a high or high value and therefore the proliferation of not only technology, but also knowledge is given special attention. The relevant criminal provisions in this regard are extremely important, and last time I looked at the first version of this bill, I made comments that fines of 50 to 100 thousand kuna were inappropriate to what the offender could earn from one side. On the other hand, such violations may have serious international consequences on the country in which it happened. In some cases a serious violation in terms of such technologies, such knowledge, and such material may also cause international sanctions. And I am glad that the commission that worked at the Ministry of Economy to amend those criminal provisions has become aware of the weaknesses of that first version and it has been removed in the second reading. So in this bill of law that we now have in our second reading these criminal provisions have been amended and these criminal sanctions are far more rigorous, but they are exclusively financial. I'm going to tell you that some countries that take great care of the sensitivity of the violations in that area have far more rigorous sanctions, here I'm going to take just one example, here's Bulgaria, in the case of the proliferation of dual-use goods without permits, authorization and consent for up to six years in prison. In case of serious violations up to eight years in prison. Therefore, it is a law whose implementation, whose implementation requires a very responsible one, but I also said professional work. Some goods, some technologies, may not be identified and may be given a certain export licence which, unfortunately, may have unacceptable consequences on the wider international scene. And here I conclude with the following finding, with what I said and at the beginning, when we talk about dual-use goods, then we are really talking about high-tech, is in the development, weapons and military equipment not being used, not using second-hand or out-of-date technologies, only the most advanced, the latest and therefore the scope of using these dual-use technologies in one society is in some way I would say the indicator of the economic power of a particular system, economic, economic, company and I would say it would be interesting if one of its statistics were translated into the Ministry of Economy and that technology and their scope of use was used as one indicator of the Croatian economy, i.e. its modernity, i.e. its competitiveness. Finally, the HDZ Club supports the changes made in terms of criminal provisions and maintains that this proposal of the Double and Double Purpose Act can receive support and certainly the most important part of the work is the quality implementation of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-08-0.u16658	I thank Mr. Kresimir Cosic. On behalf of the HSS Club, Mr. Representative Zeljko Pecek.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-08-0.u16659	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen! I would like to say immediately that the HSS will support this bill because it is one of the few proposals that we have received and is related to compliance with European Union legislation. Another reason is that in Croatia simply this regulation has not been there so far and so it is a new quality in the legislation. Of course this is also a condition of inclusion in the European Union for the Republic of Croatia and I would say that these are timely preparations. And this law is also necessary for us to end up respecting those international obligations that we must, there has been quite a verse in this area so far. However, in this law we all believe that it is exclusively military production with dual purpose or purpose production but should be noted that it is also high technology, that this is also about computer programs, that it is also about civil programs, then other than surveillance, except restrictions, I believe that this law could also be supported by producers in the sector and I think that it should be more elastic in the part of issuing permits and control and that even a little more difficult should be in the last part, as my previous criminal provisions have said. Yes, the law should try very little to fix something to give hands to those who work in that area and therefore I would focus on Article 3 where it is mentioned about the regulation, about the goods, better said about the list of goods that will be given the character of dual use. In paragraph 2, we said that the ministry is working with the authorities of the state administration whose jurisdiction is the production of such goods. It also cooperates with scientific institutions and economic operators, however, we do not have an economic association here, I believe that this would be necessary, such as the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, the Chamber of Commerce, the Association of Employers, and I believe that through Article 3 we would give one new quality if we extended it in this way. The same shall apply to Article 7 because the authorisation is obtained on the basis of a proposal from the Commission and shall consist of representatives of the ministries and depending on the end-user and type of goods and representatives of other bodies. In the HSS, we now believe that this committee, which has broad powers but also should be included in a significant part and profession, should have representatives of these associations in its permanent composition, at least some. I repeat once again the chamber of one and the other, HUP, some associations that are monitoring this sector, and it would probably be much more quality. The same proposal for elasticity and one new additional quality of this law can be found in Article 8 where the ministry is said to issue a licence for each individual export. The exporting producer should be able to export the same goods to one or more countries and I consider that this should actually be a rule. If one is exporting goods of the same type for one or more countries, it should be obtained in a manner or under quotes a permanent licence which would be valid at least until the conditions change. I here in the proposal for this article just recognize the handwriting of an administration that likes to be constantly asked something about how she would give consent or possibly wouldn't give it. Therefore, the authorisation issued for the same goods, which is exported to the same countries should not be valid until one year, should not be an exception but should have a permanent character. And finally something else about criminal provisions. Yeah, it's true they're too soft. These are fines, even if they are valid for legal persons and persons responsible in those legal entities, however, nothing more radical than a ban on the exercise of activity is mentioned from criminal provisions. I consider that given the great consequences that could occur in the event of abuse in the case of exports of this goods, the criminal provision should also contain sanctions which would be equal to the weight of the offence. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-08-0.u16660	Thank you very much, Mr. Representative. On behalf of the SDP Club, Ms. Zeljka Antunovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-08-0.u16661	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues! I'm going to try to be very brief and brief, given that this is a final proposal and that we've already discussed this issue a lot. Regardless of what we think in the SDP Club, we also think it is an important law, not only important because of the content but also important and from another aspect, which is to join Croatia with different international associations and to truly demonstrate the will to include Croatia in a proper, appropriate and efficient way in the face of some unwanted and very dangerous situations that come to us with the strengthening of terrorism. At first, I will say that the SDP Club will support this law but rather we want to make some suggestions and comments and we hope that until the vote, the Proposer will reconsider that and some remarks he may have already refused to make. First of all, I would like to say something about the very important provision of Article 3 which speaks of a regulation which will be defined or which will be regulated by the application of this law. The rule on dual character goods, dual-purpose goods, a regulation that obviously will not be just a list of what we also support and which should make this area that gets certain additional administrative barriers transparent and make it impossible to slow down the flow of goods that are nevertheless commercial goods on the market just because there they belong to the category of dual-use goods. I think that regulation is the most important part of this law and I agree that it takes a lot of time, but I think it will take a lot of people not only from the state administration but from practices that will help the team in charge at the Ministry of Economy to make up a good regulation. I think that, in this direction, people who have daily experience in transactions of all goods, including such goods, should not forget that these goods have been in Croatia or until the adoption of this Act have been completely free of sale and that these additional administrative barriers will likely cause many problems and many dissatisfaction with those economic operators that are exporters or producers of such goods. Control and control shall not be a reason for the disruption of the market business of our economic operators. Similarly, as specifically supervised by the manufacturers of goods used for military purposes, further records and supervision and continuous control of those producers will have to be made which, which produce dual-use goods. If through procedures and through the application of these procedures we establish which producers, which goods are, if such a single record is updated, then I think that for one small Croatia there should be no major problem and that the prospective exporters of such goods should not, and unfortunately because of our current experiences, have additional problems, additional unacceptable, or unnecessary administrations and that they should not be exposed to the potential self-will of those who make decisions. Decisions, i.e. export licences, will be issued by the Ministry but on the basis of a proposal from the Commission. Again, on the basis of some experiences with such similar committees, I don't think it's enough that the commission is made up of just people from the competent ministries because they're officials, I'm guessing in this commission they'll be professional but not people who decide independently at that national administrative level. And that is why there is a need, this commission should get a dimension not only when it depends on the end-user and type of goods but perhaps constantly on some of the other less-loaded representatives of some other less-said bodies. There have already been talks here about economic associations such as the craft chamber, the Chamber of Commerce or others. I think it would be good for these people who are more in practice than civil servants to also be part of such a single commission and that the commission can recognise when unnecessary administration will take place in practice. I will also refer to Article 9 even though the minister explained, giving arguments that the deadline of 60 days is 90 days for issuing an export licence is an appropriate time limit. However, it seems to me, or to us at the SDP Club, that the deadline may and must be shortened. It is precisely because of the size of the country and because of what I had previously said if we were able and if we really seriously approach the realisation of the work related to this Law to establish clear criteria and clear procedures, to establish clear records of manufacturers and goods. And then I will certainly make a great contribution not only to reducing administrative barriers but to encouraging the economy in Croatia that has a chance to contribute to economic growth, exports, employment and everything that we currently lack in Croatia about this consensus. And that is why we remain on the need to shorten these deadlines because it is still a month, two months, and it is much more appropriate and more acceptable for those who produce and export than it is for two months and three months, it is still too long, too long deadlines. I am saying especially for our Croatian terms. Here, these are our basic and final suggestions. The law is usually good in principle. The provisions that you have accepted after the first reading improve its content and we hope that you will reconsider this here, the last comments made, some will also be in the form of amendments that we will really get a good law but after we have continued supervision I say, that the law does not become an additional barrier but actually become a normal means of monitoring and controlling these types of goods. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-08-0.u16662	I thank Mrs. Representatives. Mr. Nenad Stazic, he's gone, he's losing his right. Mrs. Danira Bilic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-08-0.u16663	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues, here's a very short one on this bill. I believe this is an important and necessary bill because it regulates one area as we have already heard which has not been regulated in the Republic of Croatia, therefore, the area of export control of goods, with dual purpose. Or goods that include computer programs and technologies that can be used for both civil and military purposes. Thus, this legislative proposal also harmonizes the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with the legislation of the European Union whose adoption of one of the conditions of our entry into the European Union proposes a system of rules laying down the conditions of export of dual-purpose goods. In the first reading of this bill, a consensus has been reached today on the need for its adoption not only in the light of the need to bring our legislation into line with European Union legislation but also in light of the need for effective control of the export of goods that can be used to produce and spread chemical, biological or nuclear weapons for mass destruction. Also, by adopting this Act, the Republic of Croatia will contribute further to its activities as a participant and party to all global legal instruments in the area of arms and arms control. It should also be pointed out that the proposer has considered a number of proposals and opinions given on the draft law and some of them have implemented and installed in the Final Proposal of this Law, where I would particularly point out that it is respected that representatives of the ministries are also involved in the preparation of the draft rules by representatives of scientific institutions and economies in line with the international obligations of the Republic of Croatia. And I now consider it important that the Government of the Republic of Croatia, within the deadline, draw up a precise list of goods in the goods regulation so that there are no different interpretations and abuses. And in the end I say that this law is good, it is necessary and that as we have heard tonight be accepted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-08-0.u16664	Thank you. Mr. Jozo Topic, but he's not there, so he's losing his right to debate. Does Mr. Secretary want to conclude? Here you go. Mr. Minister Branko Vukelic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-08-0.u16665	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, honourable ladies and gentlemen, above all I thank you here and for today's suggestions and interest and thinking and thinking about this law, I have one thing to warn or say that as far as criminal provisions are concerned, they have been tightened financially and that is visible. That there is a possibility of a temporary ban on the exercise of activity of 6 or 6 months, respectively. That is, a year under this Law, and I also think that I support your thinking in the direction and criminal provisions, or prison, but that is the subject of an amendment to the Penal Code. In that part, therefore, it should be possible for those sanctions to be against the one who violates the law. And it is clear that this law also touches and touches both the economy and the development of the economy, or it can have these in certain segments when you mention the negative consequences of the economy, but the fact is that the meaning of this Law is, and I think it is exactly where the representative Mr. Cosic spoke of it in a rather detailed manner, preventing abuses related to goods with military intent. And above all, he in that part, this Law is restrictive and all these control and control measures and verifications are procedures which in other countries take really long enough time and questions of administration I must say, but I repeat once again we will analyse all these remarks and proposals and finally give an indication when adopting but I think we should keep in mind and say our administration must work effectively in a way that what is clear and clear solves in 10 days or 30 days but that we have deadlines that force us to do a detailed and extensive control because the damages that can result from exporting such goods are far greater than what is the problem of our administration and these days that should be, in which we should be subject to verification. But I repeat thanks for the comments, suggestions. We will once again analyse all your objections to the Ministry until the final adoption of this Act and I believe that where possible, such as economic associations or others, some other associations that can be useful in the work of the commission or in, when adopting this regulation on, on goods, yes, I believe that, in this direction, we will be able and able to accept these proposals and that we will make them even more quality. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-08-0.u16666	I thank Minister Branko Vukelic. I'm closing the debate. There'll be a vote tomorrow. Tomorrow we start at 10:30 p.m. with, 9.30 a.m. I'm sorry about the amendment bill and the addition of the law on civil servants and tenants and so on according to this order here. We're expecting a vote around 5:00 p.m. If things happen before we settle, it'll probably be a vote. But we don't expect that. It's objectively spoken over about 17 hours. So in the morning at 9.30. I'm closing the session. Good night! The session was interrupted at 8:15 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-08-0.u16667	Final proposal of the Double-Intent Export Act, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 78 The debate on the text of the law is over. Amandan was submitted by MP Zeljka Antunovic. I ask Minister Branko Vukelic to be made aware of the proposed amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-08-0.u16668	Thank you, Mr. President. The proposed amendment is not accepted on the grounds that the deadlines within 60 days or 90 days are in line with all the practice of the European Union, with experts from that area in the European Union. In fact, there are many examples that the process of research and verification will take more than 60 days. Thus, we stand at the point of view that it is necessary to remain these deadlines for 60 days and 90 days, respectively.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-08-0.u16669	There are no esteemed amendments to the amendment. We have to vote. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Who's restrained? I find that, unanimously with 86 votes, the proposed law has been passed. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we will proceed with the session. It is next - Proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on civil servants and tenants, first reading, P.Z. No. 114; The legislator is the Government. The provisions of the Semi-Sonics relating to the first reading of the law apply. The debate was conducted by the Committees on Lawmaking, the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the Political Constitution. You received the reports at the session. I would like Mr. Antun Palaric's lovely secretary to further explain the proposal. Here you go.
