ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-01-0.u22175	Thank you very much. Honored Mr. President, honored MPs and MPs. As you know, this is about an amendment concerning the destruction of drug-absorbed drugs, which was regulated in the previous law to make a court decision on destruction, but in practice it did not come to life, so in this law, we have now proposed that the destruction be left to one commission appointed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. In our first reading, we received some of the comments we adopted, particularly regarding the composition of this commission. Among other members, we have proposed one member of the media, so one of the journalists, but according to the debate, we have adopted a request to be a member of the Croatian Journalist Society. Therefore, this would be a change from the first reading, and we also adopted remarks on the sale of that drug, or its destruction, and a proposal from the first reading was adopted to sell drugs in the manner provided for in the Implementing Law by auction, and only if there were no interested, therefore, drug manufacturers etc. who could use those drugs, then she would destroy herself according to the decision of the said commission. So these are two changes since the first reading we have incorporated into our law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-01-0.u22176	Thank you. Does the rapporteur want the Committee on Law, Labour, Social Policy and Health? The chairman of the board, Honored Representative Marko Turic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-01-0.u22177	Dear Mr. of the Croatian Parliament, the esteemed Deputy of the Croatian Government, colleagues and colleagues. The Committee on Labour, Social Policy and Health at the 13th session held on 21 September 2004 discussed the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Completion of the Law on the Prevention of the Abuse of Intoxication Drugs to the President of the Croatian Parliament by means of an act of 9 September 2004. The Committee discussed the law as a home working body, in accordance with Article 75. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. In the opening statement, the applicant’s representative specifically referred to the provisions of Article 51 of the applicable law which are amended in accordance with the provisions and this Committee when first reading the draft law. The Committee members reiterated in the debate that the proposed amendments better determine the provisions of the existing law that have been shown to be ineffective in practice. In particular, this applies to the work of courts, which since December 2001, i.e. Since the entry into force of the Law on the control of the use of intoxicating drugs has not been appointed by any committee before which the destruction of seized intoxicating drugs would be carried out, although the debate has also shown that the proposed amendments may be insufficient, the members of the Committee have been of the opinion that the proposed amendments remove the uncertainty observed in the applicable law. After the debate, members of the Committee unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Assembly for the adoption of the Law on Change and Completion of the Law on the control of drug abuse. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-01-0.u22178	Thank you very much. I ask MPs who repeatedly break the rule of not making phone calls in the assembly, to finally get rid of this non-compliance with the rules. Committee on Family, Youth and Sports, Vice-President of the Committee, Honored Representative Maria Byte. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-01-0.u22179	Your Honor, Mr. President, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Government, ladies and gentlemen. The Committee on Family, Youth and Sports at the 12th session of the Committee held on 23 September 2004 discussed the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prevention of Drug Abuse, 2nd reading, P.Z. No. 52, in accordance with Article 77 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. In the introduction of the proposal's representatives, it stressed the need to pass laws for the reasons that so far the solutions set out in the law proved ineffective, since the courts did not appoint committees before which intoxicating drugs could be destroyed. In particular, it referred to the provisions of Article 51 of the applicable law, which were amended in accordance with the observations of the parliamentary committees when they first read the draft law. After the hearing, all the members of the Committee took part in the debate, accepting the fact that law-making was necessary, stressing that the provisions of the existing law in practice have proved ineffective, and this specifically relates to the work of courts which since December 2001, i.e. The measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed, Furthermore, in the debate it was specifically argued that the proposed law needed to establish, i.e. to set a deadline for the sale of intoxicating drugs which has been discussed and it has been established that the same has been resolved by the provisions of the Executive Act, and the Committee considers that the proposed amendments and additions will achieve the desired effectiveness and, by applying the provisions of the Implementing Law, remove the observed uncertainty. After the debate, the Committee decided to propose to the Croatian Assembly the adoption of the Law on Amendments and the addition of the Law on the control of drug abuse in the text, as proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-01-0.u22180	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the Club of HNS Representatives, the esteemed representative of Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-01-0.u22181	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Minister. The Croatian People's Party Club will support the amendments to this law, although I do not think it will solve the part of the problem that we raised when we first read this bill. And yesterday we had the opportunity to hear the information from the government's session that according to the report they had on the agenda in Croatia, about 18,000 addicts, probably occasional borrowers or consumers, as who already uses different terms. And whenever we discuss this topic we ask whether we have done everything or can do anything else to stop this evil in Croatia. We bring programmes, we try to secure money in both national and local budgets, and civil associations of citizens, parents, experts, experts who are trying to do something. But I remember the data four years ago. Such persons were registered 13,000, but also Deputy Prime Minister Mrs. Kosor said yesterday that if we want to get the right picture that these figures should always be multiplied by 5 to get the right picture of the situation in Croatia. This means that in Croatia we do not have a problem with 18,000 of our citizens but times 5 and then it is about that framework, because both prevention and repression have managed to register 18 thousand and probably every 4 or 5 are just recorded. To make it a little easier for us to make so much effort and so little results, if we only take the average price to be invested daily for this monster, this 50 kuna problem, then the annual drug market in Croatia without VAT and excise duty is worth between a billion and 600 to 2 billion kuna. And that's the stuff that someone brings to the market, and that's the profit that someone puts in the cash register, and as long as the supply market is as it is in Croatia today is prevention, treatment and withdrawal won't have any more serious results. This law adopted in Article 1 refers to a specific programme of withdrawal and care measures for addicts. So this issue of destruction, selling or burning drugs, I'm not going to look at it, and these are just technical repairs from the opportunity of jurisdiction, but why am I stressing this special program? Namely, this special programme is also presented for members of the Armed Forces and for persons in custody, for children of school and preschool age, students and students of higher education. I would like to point out that this program applies to that youth, or underage person, or even to younger minors, who according to Article 64. The law on youth courts, the judicial authorities can do two things. First, the State Attorney's Office may, in accordance with the Law on Juvenile Courts, issue a measure or apply an opportunity measure and commit a person to the withdrawal or advisory work which may take from three to twelve months. So, this is the process where the judiciary assesses that access to this specific programme would have a greater effect and possible cure or withdrawal, instead of prosecution, this programme should be the one that will serve this young man to cure or dissipate addiction. It is also the court for youth, when he has already prosecuted the issue of a crime, that is to say, the criminal act can also introduce a special obligation for the withdrawal of addicts or their treatment through advisory work. And these are the two mechanisms that Croatian legislation has taken over from the United Nations Convention that regulate this area. And where it starts now, yes, and there are certainly school prevention programs that should be implemented in the system of education, to allow prevention to occur in children's kindergartens, primary and secondary schools to act preventively. However, I prayed in my first reading, but then the secretary of state explained the bill's proposal, there were no, two data that were extremely important, let's see when we get this report to the Parliament, whose report we're going to get and where possibly bigger problems might be. So my first question was also a warning, but really problems, and I'm not repeating this because I'm making someone's life miserable, but it's just that we're trying to act in advance, not that when we get a report for this year to find out that we haven't solved it. The first was the problem of major resistance to our addiction prevention centres entering the Public Health Institute system, and I believe it was now done, because it was the Institute of Public Health that fought for years against the city and county prevention centres becoming an integral part of the Public Health Institute. Another problem, or other information that I asked for how much Croatian has the capacity for withdrawal measures, treatment and care for addicts. These facilities may be in state institutions or institutions, institutions established by religious communities, or different civil society associations. So this data sums up how much capacity we have is important to us, to see if that program when we bring it in, or when we look at its results we know what we have at this point. Since so far, and I'm sure no one has united that data, it would really be useful to see when the program is being implemented and when the ministry gives consent to it that we know who it's about. And the third area I wanted to warn was money. In the budget this year, of a total of 12 million 419 thousand from all positions that can be identified as being money to suppress dependence on items in the Ministry of Health, Social, Customs, Ministry of Interior 4 and a half million is intended to invest in buildings, 3 million for the functioning of the office and only 4 million for different programmes of prevention of addiction, treatment or all that this law speaks of. This year she's gone, no more chances of major repairs, but it might be a good thing that when we have the state budget and those items that we have parallelly for next year, and let's see how much the program requires money, not just how much in the state budget of that money we can secure. And in the end, I don't really understand, the provision of Article 2(2) of the amendment and addition, who will submit to whom some reports on the implementation of these programmes will be submitted. It states: the implementation of the programme by the competent ministry and the state administrations report, the annual report to the office by 31 March, and the institution by 30 June of the current year for the previous year. Who's the office reporting to? The Bureau's putting up with someone, that's what it says. It doesn't say who, or what. So there's a report from the Ministry of State Administration in the office, the office of coma, the institution of coma? If it was thought that this institution with its report was coming before the Parliament or before the Government, it would be directed to write it, precisely because the question of the security of the funds is the jurisdiction of this Parliament, so it would be good to discuss, instead of just theoretical discussions, both in this report and in this House, so, Mr Minister, if possible, to clarify or supplement this article in order to make it clear to whom this report is actually submitted by the Institute. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-01-0.u22182	Thank you. The SDP Club is a respected representative of Sima Lucin.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-01-0.u22183	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Minister. Here, let me at first express my satisfaction with this proposal because it is much better in this final version than when we had it in our first reading. At first I would like to say that the SDP Club will support this proposal in its final form, and I am also pleased to remind you, in the first reading, there were two versions of this law on your benches, one was the SDP proposal, and the second was the Government's proposal. So on three important things which, where the two laws differed, were adopted, the question that there must be a voice in the commission, i.e. public control, so a representative of the Croatian Journalist Society, it is good and I think it is good that it is removed from the bill that the chairman of the commission will be a representative of the Ministry of the Interior. If you remember the remark went in that direction that a representative of the Ministry of the Interior, so the Ministry of the Interior as a Resort Ministry, so drug-possessed, drug-supply, would be a liability, and it would be illogical for this president to be the chairman of the commission. Although this final proposal did not define who would be the chairman of the commission, it is projected in contrast to the first proposal to go with the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Commission. I hope that it will still be adopted which is the logic of things, that the chairman of the commission will be from the Ministry of Justice. The third remark that has not been adopted is that we have tried since the destruction of drugs is attempted if it can be tried in agreement with the judiciary, so in terms of courts, in terms of an inadmissible verdict that drugs are actually being destroyed by the commission. The answer is that there is still a need to wait for the power of judgment, and a good argument that pleases us. What I also think should be changed in this section in the first article, so when it comes to addiction and who is responsible for addiction, I think that by changing that story about addiction, the Ministry of Social Care should still replace it, that it is the Ministry of Health. Because we have to send a message, in fact, that addiction is nothing but a disease. It's not a social problem in that classical sense, it's actually a classic health problem. I think this may have been an opportunity, and I hope that this opportunity will come soon, that this Croatian Parliament will actually be more serious about this topic. I think we're actually talking about programs here, results, etc. But I think we should actually start working things out from the beginning. We are one of the few European countries that have no clearly defined concepts about drugs. We are the only country that does not use the term "no drugs" in its legislation but uses intoxicating drugs. We are one of the few countries in which legislation does not distinguish between easy drugs and heavy drugs. We're one of the few countries where there's no difference in ownership, so from trade, so from drug dealing. I think that simply in Croatia today we have a situation that many entities in different places are dealing with this problem from NGOs to government institutions and that it actually needs one body that would coordinate this whole thing and I think that, with less money, it could either be made or with this same amount of money that is being allocated, it could do a lot more. I think the experience has shown and this is this area of this law where something more could be used, which is that prevention is the best drug medicine and the fight against drugs. So, first of all, education. You have a situation that in primary and secondary schools today we don't really have any shape or are just left at will or on the surface to talk about what the drugs are carrying with them. I believe that in the sense of prevention there is much more to be done, and also in the treatment. We are also one of the few countries that because of the different opinion of the profession we do not have a defined story about methadone therapy. We should simply settle this, have someone expert say whether heroin addicts have the right and their rights to treat methadone. But okay, let's let it go. I think that the Parliament, especially parliamentary committees, I don't know the Committee on Youth, should open up one thematic debate, lay down all the laws and the whole story that is about prevention and treatment and the repressive anti-drug system, and in that way actually do a full analysis, and then when we discuss this problem in this House, we actually deal more seriously with it together. What's not supposed to happen to us, and it's happening to us. Let's say that when you change the chief, the head of the office or I don't know some drug-related body, if he's a representative of a school, then there's a form of program being pushed. When it comes to someone else who has another approach to this problem, another approach is pushed. In fact, I'd dare say there's too much going on in this room, and I think the problem is such that it shouldn't be all over the place. In a way to define prevention of special treatment, therefore addiction. I think a big space would open up to a more effective repressive fight against illegal drug trafficking. This morning I read in the paper, I really can't believe it, that a group of cops who seized 350 last year and some kilos or 330 and some kilos of heroin, I guess it doesn't matter, heavy intoxicating drugs, that it isn't rewarded, is it? I just don't want to believe that's what this is about because they've made this action for some of the former governments if that's why they haven't won the police award. I wonder who won the Police Day award if that group didn't win. But why am I saying that? It's not about politicizing, it's about the simple reason, the fight against drug-related crime. That's not stealing from the store, so you're going to write it down, and it's going to get into your stats. Against illegal drug trafficking, it belongs to a gray zone, a gray zone organised primarily by crime. You have as many results as the police are working for you, and the police need to be motivated. That's it. I hope we have almost a chance to talk more seriously about this problem, I'm speaking at the general level. I say, first of all, I see the role of Parliament's committees and I end it again, and I stress that the SDP Club will support this final bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-01-0.u22184	Thank you. The HSS Club is a respected representative of Ljubica Lalić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-01-0.u22185	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, colleagues and fellow MPs. The law on the prevention of drug abuse was passed by the Croatian Parliament in 2001. Until today, he has not fully revived in practice, and drugs are addiction, in Croatia becoming a growing problem not only for addicts and their families who have been displaced and destroyed, becoming a growing problem for this society that is difficult to deal with. While there was no law, all the debates on this problem ended with the finding that there was no law and in this it was accumulated all the blame for the expansion of this evil. We passed a law that didn't become a magic wand, and it can't be. Measures to combat the abuse of intoxicating drugs have been prescribed, tasks are shared and powers are prescribed and the problem is getting bigger and bigger. The problem is a complex and serious effort to resolve it does not suffer any weak link in the chain of tasks, jurisdiction, but also responsibility. This law has been changed since today, and to this day it has been changed once a year and this year will not be an exception. As a rule, in the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Peasants, we do not mind frequent changes, if they are in the function of removing the ambiguity and uncertainty that law enforcement has shown as shortcomings that make it difficult to implement and thus achieve the objective of which the law has been passed. Well, in this case, it doesn't seem like it. We've passed the law, so far, twice as many changes and additions, third time ahead of us, and the drugs are getting more and more available and without special problems entering primary schools, entering high school, and in disco clubs, bars and other youth gatherings not to be spoken. The easy availability, the curiosity of young people, the existential difficulties from which you sometimes see no exit, the senselessness in the unspeakable future has led to alarming numbers of registered addicts, and the unregistered can only be assumed. The Croatian Parliament has adopted a national strategy, the government has adopted an action programme, eventually there is only one implementation left to make efficiency analysts both prescribed and implemented measures and then to correct what has proved to be not good, or to complement what has proved insufficient. Unfortunately, the implementation is not good, and the appointment of any segment in the shared powers is completely changing the picture and will never reach the goal. Addiction cannot and must not be a problem just for addicts and their families. These broken and exhausted families need the support of society. Do we know that all 10-15% of street drugs are seized with us? What are the reasons? Is it possible that the seized drugs are returning to the market? In the context of this question, we are looking at the proposal for an amendment and addition. The destruction of drug confiscation is necessary, among other things, in order to eliminate the ability to return drugs to the market so that we can safely determine that only 10 to 15% of the seized street drug is a reflection of the ineffectiveness of the police. Therefore, the club of representatives of the Croatian Peasant Party advocates destruction both in front of the commission at the time and in order not to destroy the evidence necessary for the fair completion of the procedures and the fair punishment of those who do not survive the torture of drugs, even primary schoolers, therefore, children in their earliest youth. Positive, therefore, the current Law also provides for the destruction of those intoxicating drugs, parts of plants or substances that cannot be used as raw materials. The decision to sell or destroy shall be taken by the body which has taken the decision to withdraw. The destruction takes place in front of a committee appointed by that body. According to the proposed amendments, the decision to sell, destroy and continue to be taken by the body that has taken the decision to confiscate, but the destruction takes place in front of a commission appointed by the Government. This commission consists of 7 members and this is the representative of the Office for the Prevention of Drug Abuse, Ministry of the Interior, Ministry of Health, Ministry of Justice, Ministry of the Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity, Ministry of Economy, and the Croatian Journalist Society. This commission will submit a quarterly report to the government on its work, but all this will cost the state budget of 300,000 kuna. Why this change in the appointment of the commission? The proposer, in his explanation, says that the courts that made the decisions to take drug intoxication should, by the power vested in their decisions, appoint a commission to destroy intoxicating drugs, which is based on a decision to suspend, that is to say, to keep the cases taken from the police. Such a solution in practice has proved ineffective since the entry into force of the Law, the courts have not appointed a single commission before which the destruction of drugs would be completed. So again, the courts are guilty and instead of finding a way to force the courts to do their jobs, we re-change the law to pass on their work to someone else. And now we transfer this business, no less than to the Government of the Republic of Croatia, or to the commission it appoints. We still haven't forgotten that we've changed the Family Law because courts don't do their jobs, so the State Authority's jurisdiction law. This argument doesn't seem convincing or logical. The wrongly proposed person explains that the courts had to appoint a committee before which destruction would take place for each final verdict. It is enough for each court to appoint a commission and it will be before it that drugs will be destroyed by all the judgments of that court. For example, a panel of the County Court in Slavonski Brod would then attend the destruction of drugs held in the custody of police in Slavonski Brod. According to the changes, the Government's commission will walk from Slavonski Brod, Vukovar, Virovitica and all the way to Pula, Rijeka, Dubrovnik, which means all over Croatia. And it'll certainly cost. It seems more likely that the government has no trust in the commission that would appoint the bodies that have made the decision to withdraw. If there were trust, we would find mechanisms that, if anything else, would force the courts to do the job they were legally assigned to. Well, if there's no trust, how will the government have citizens? But it's obvious that the government wants to centralize, so if it'll stop the market from being seized and the drugs taken away, then so be it and we'll back it up. However, it is very interesting that not long ago this same government has declared the same SDP representative's proposal to the contrary Article 165 paragraphs 1, 2 and 3. The law on criminal proceedings. In its opinion on the Bill of Law, the Government said, I quote: "Article 165 is prescribed when the verdict becomes a power of power and who is in charge of its execution. It is also prescribed that the judgment in the first degree is not in charge of its enforcement. It must provide a certified copy of the judgment with a certificate of enforcement of the body responsible for its enforcement and that the power of judgment is carried out as duly delivered and there is no legal interference with its enforcement. It is therefore proposed to amend the provisions of the Criminal Procedure Act in respect of the execution of the Court's decision, and thus its jurisdiction to execute a judicial verdict," the statement concluded. That would be professional, not political opinion. But the profession changed its mind when the holder of such a proposal instead of a SDP representative club became a government. Now this proposal is no longer contrary to the Criminal Procedure Act. Perhaps this is an example where the government has witnessed that even the profession cannot be trusted because it too is subject to political influences, and in order to be able to believe there some of the committees that are far from the eye, it has therefore insisted on the amendment proposal, however contrary to its own expert opinion to the Code of Criminal Procedure. In a war with an evil called drugs, it still has to dominate the profession, and politics is obliged to create conditions for the more effective work of professions and experts. In line with this view, we also look at the proposal for an amendment to which, instead of the health minister responsible for the specific programmes of withdrawal measures, the minister responsible for social care would adopt. The addicts are primarily patients, and due to the disease they become social cases, and special withdrawal programmes based on the previously obtained opinion of the Office for the Prevention of Drug Abuse should be brought by the Minister responsible for Health. And in that part we intended to submit an amendment, however, as such an amendment is already in the process, we fully support that amendment. And finally, just one question. We read on our own in "The People's Newspaper" that members of the Management Board of the Department of Prevention were appointed, and this Department of Prevention was abolished by law, by amending the Law somewhere from 2002, so here, in that part we have an unknown. Therefore, the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Peasant Party will support this Bill proposal with ambiguities, but obviously the profession has changed its mind, so we support the Law.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-01-0.u22186	Thank you. On behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Club, a respected representative, Vice President Darko Milinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-01-0.u22187	Dear Mr. President, Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, Mr. Hebrang. The justification for the adoption of this Law exists for several reasons. I will list only some, one of them is and since in the previous meeting of the Croatian Parliament, the Constitutional Court has abolished, which the Assembly in the previous meeting has adopted, amendments and laws, amendments and additions to the Law on the control of drug abuse for procedural reasons. The reason is also because the law does not apply, but perhaps the most important reason why it should today and it seems to me that all clubs will support these amendments and additions to the Law on the prevention of drug abuse is the presence of drugs, not only in Croatia but also in Europe and the world, and for this reason I am glad to see up at the gallery several dozen young people who are here is good to hear that in the Croatian Parliament and the Government of the Republic of Croatia thinks about this problem. Therefore, the establishment of a permanent commission, which would be appointed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia under the provisions of the proposed law, is necessary, as I have said, for the reasons that the courts have so far failed to establish the committees in charge of implementing the applicable Law. The Constitutional Commission would therefore aim and play a role in continuing and controlling the destruction of drug abuses while preventing possible drug abuses. Furthermore, the law also provides that intoxicating drugs, plants or substances taken from them under the law can also be used as raw materials, but can also be sold to a legal person who is authorised to make intoxicating drugs. Further content of the Law has been proposed to transfer powers for the adoption of a programme of withdrawal measures to the Minister of Social Care, as the HNS representative said, to extend the deadline for submitting the report of the Office for the Prevention of Drug Abuse on the implementation of the programme to the Croatian Institute for Public Health on 31 March as it was until 30 June of the current year for the previous year. We see that the legislator accepted the comments of the Committee on Law, the Committee on Human Rights and the National Minorities and the Committee on Labour, Social Policy and Health, as well as that he did not accept the observations made in the first reading where a proposal was not adopted that would allow for the destruction of the intoxicated comrades after the intoxication of higher quantities immediately after the artisan and the production of photo-laborates, for reasons to enable the destruction of the intoxicating drugs before the law of the decision on the confiscation of the case. In the debate held by the Croatian Democratic Community Club, it is possible to highlight the major problems facing society in the fight against the plague of the modern age, although there have been some progress in this regard over the past few years. As Croatia tends to the market economy, both unfortunately and on the drug market, there is a market economy, and the market economy means price reduction, price reduction means easier availability, so in the not so far past we knew that cocaine was exclusively bought or was exclusively "reserved" for the rich are now in the sale of the so-called "sales". Quartet dealers. Croatia is also a tansian country, so there should be no hair in the language, so it is often said that the transit from the east to the west of the intoxicated drugs and drugs are often kept here in the territory of the Republic of Croatia, and for this reason it is understandable to see new drugs in Croatia such as rohypnol or more widely-used folk "expression" is a rape drug. Trends of drug abuse should be linked to subcultural groups such as often let's say police raids in various technical pairs when some large or smaller quantities of drugs are seized. When we talk about fighting the plague of the 20th century, then we need to understand that there is a need to determine the exact number of addicts. Yesterday we heard in the government's session that today we have about 18.5 thousand registered addicts and that the Deputy Prime Minister of Jadranka Kosor said we can multiply that number by 3 or 5 so again I say "give God that it's only 18.5 grand" actually give God that it's less but I hope you're all sharing my opinion, we're afraid that this number is far greater. So comparing the data provided in the past by the Croatian Institute of Public Health and Data of the Centre for Prevention and Abdominal Treatment Dependence was observed the difference in the number of persons treated and this difference was explained by the fact, according to the fulfillment of those pompidou of the ballots registered for the same person only once a year in a single institution. With regard to the fight against the 20th century, we could also say something about prevention centres that we believe in the Croatian Democratic Community Club have been slowly forming, but they have also slowed down their work, making it more difficult to learn about the credible picture of the situation in Croatia, but it has also contributed to an inefficient fight against this disease. According to collected data, according to the World Health Organization's recommendations a year or two ago, there were estimated to be 15 thousand addicts in Croatia, so the notion of 18.5 thousand is therefore justified by fear that the actual number could be multiple. And the work of the Office for the Prevention of Drug Abuse could be discussed and considered whether it fulfilled its expectations with its work. With legitimate criticism of his work, we may have a good example in Split where good initial results and cooperation of the centre’s offices with the therapeutic communities resulted in some 30% reduction of heroin addicts. It kind of shows us that even with...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-01-0.u22188	Ladies and gentlemen of the House of Representatives, please welcome the Marco Marulić High School and its students who have been following our work. Proceed, Vice President. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-01-0.u22189	So this proves that, with increased effort and enhanced cooperation between system organisations, some results can be achieved at first sight unattainable. It is also estimated that the system institution, as I said, is a good example of cooperation within the Split system and it is also estimated that the system institution does not cooperate enough to actually confirm the debate in the previous assembly of the Assembly, where when the Law was adopted, there was no or no bad communication on the route of the Ministry of Justice and the Office to combat drug abuse and, as an example of non-cooperation, the fact that the Office as a professional and technical body of the Government was not consulted on the occasion of making amendments and addition of the Penal Code to which it was provided so-called. Decriminalization of easy drugs. In order to overcome the situation, we could probably all agree with the need to strengthen preventive repressive measures and activities in public places especially around schools, so today, when you send a child to school, you already have certain fears not so much that there will be these unfortunate drugs inside the school benches often on TV we have seen frequent open drug scenes right around the school. It is a very important prevention in order to reduce drug spread to youth and reduce other forms of crime that are committed by addicts and youth prevention and education should become an inevitable way of action that should give all institutions much more attention. In 2000, it seems to me that the first year began to organize a professional program of working with addicts in the so-called “. ” Pernal institutions, in institutions where they were being treated and rehabilitated by these addicts. And I would probably be interested in the results of this work personally, probably also by the representatives and the entire Croatian public, because we have often seen in the means of public information that in these places there have been often abuses of intoxicating drugs. The activities and activities of the Ministry of Interior have also been highlighted by a series of actions and daily activities, which have achieved significant success in large drug confiscation, with an emphasis on the previously highlighted position on the need for increased repressive, preventive action especially in the environment of schools. It is also possible to ask the question, whether the applicable legislation meets the real needs of time, especially in a section relating to prevention, to youth education, and then to treatment and to help addicts. In this connection, it can also point out that last year's amendment and addition to the Penal Code, which introduced the popularly called decriminalisation of light drugs to which the then opposition HDZ strongly opposed and fortunately appeared to me by the Constitutional Court's decision of 27 November, at least fortunately for us in the HDZ, so by the Constitutional Court's decision of 27 November 2003, those legal provisions ceased to apply because the HDZ in the person of the current President Vladimir Seks initiated the constitutionality procedure of the mentioned Penal Code. On the contrary, for procedural reasons, because it was not brought to a qualified majority. Despite the abolition of the law due to the failure of the procedure, it should be pointed out once again that HDZ opposed the decriminalisation of light drugs for the simple reason we also considered as the Democratic People's Party that we would grow up with such a law the wrong message to Croatian youth, the wrong message to our children. and experts point out that decriminalisation would change the attitude and attitude towards drugs, and open the door to entry into so-called. It's a gray drug crime zone. In addition, all of the above mentioned Club of the Croatian Democratic Community will support the proposal for a final draft of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prevention of Drug Abuse and none of the laws are ideal, so it is likely that this law too has certain negativity in terms of its implementation, and I hope that this Assembly and I believe that we will unanimously adopt this law. But we don't need to take away the changes that are going to make this law better, if needed in the near future. So, the Croatian Democratic Community Club will support this law and let it be one small brick that we will try to make here I would say the Berlin Wall between the Croatian youth between our children and the 20th century plague. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-01-0.u22190	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the respected representative Marija Lugaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-01-0.u22191	I'm correcting two allegations. The first that drugs are mainly related to subcultural groups, that's incorrect, and that would make it much simpler then and solve it, the data say that drugs don't choose social status, and therefore this finding is completely incorrect. And on the other hand, and somewhat discriminatory towards subcultural groups that are mostly indigenous expressions of youth culture. Another incorrect allegation that decriminalisation of drug possession sends false messages and encourages drug abuse for two reasons. First, in 97, drug possession was criminalized and data on the constant increase in the number of addicts said that the repression did not bear fruit. The second argument, from the State's Attorney's Office, is constantly coming to the House of Law that we do, that we actually decriminalize only drug possession, and that's what we have in this current State's Attorney's Office's report again.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-01-0.u22192	The second correction, a respected representative, Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-01-0.u22193	Mr. President, it is incorrect that a fellow vice president said that it was not a good co-operation between the Ministry of Justice and the Government's office in the making of the Penal Code when decriminalisation was just proposed, i.e. the elimination of drug possession incrimination. On the contrary. It was the whole government concept, that it is according to those people who are more victims than some criminals who help, and also bring a national anti-drug programme. This central law, the Law on the Prevention of Drug Abuse, which we are currently improving, and in order for society in this repressive, or state in its repressive apparatus to turn to those who are the bearers of this business, on the drug machine and on the drug lords of the so-called drug lords. Reputable citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-01-0.u22194	And the third correction, the esteemed representative of Shima Luchin.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-01-0.u22195	Mr. President, it is an incorrect assumption that the Penal Code was brought down in the Constitutional Court for having been contained in it, therefore provisions on the decriminalisation of drugs that could have been read out of the presentation of fellow vice presidents. The law was removed, i.e. in the Constitutional Court, because of procedural errors. Otherwise, decriminalization does not involve impunity. You have infringement provisions that are much more educational and severe than criminal provisions. Maybe you should consider just because young people in the file don't think they're criminals because they took some ecstasy or smoked a joint. So I can punish myself differently.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-01-0.u22196	Thank you. Honored representative Ruža Tomasic on behalf of the HSP Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-01-0.u22197	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. HSPs support this law, especially since documents show that in the last year of 2001 there are 142 kilograms of heroin, 9 kilograms of hashish, 1750 kilograms of marijuana, 356 kilograms of cocaine, 33 kilograms of amphetamine, 153 thousand 377 ecstasy tablets and 360 doses of LSD. And now I'm curious about how much of it is and did any of it go back to the street? And if it were burned right, we wouldn't have to worry and the people wouldn't judge the police and the authorities. Keep going. Every year there are about two thousand new addicts. And that's because the offer is getting bigger, seized more and more, the cops are getting smaller, the police don't even have the authority right. If I were to tell you that there are over 100 registered heroin addicts on the island of Korcula, and so far there has been no major seizure on the island of Korčula. It means that everyone who does drugs goes to Split or Dubrovnik for their dose. That's how it would work out. With more and more drugs on the market, we can see that in the first four months only at a single border crossing about 90 kilos of heroin has been seized. I have to point out that I'm sorry and here I call the police, the judiciary, the state's attorneys, because they don't cooperate, no cooperation. How many times did the police say I shouldn't, 'cause last time I got my fingers crossed. How many times have they released these drug lords with 40, 50, 60, 76 criminal charges. These people came home before the lawyers got the papers. In its action plan, the government estimated that the implementation of an action plan to combat drug abuse required 91 million 288 thousand and 599 kuna. If something is done this isn't much, but if nothing is done, if responsibility is transferred this is a lot of money. We take care of birth, we talk so much about children from one to three years old that women should have more birth and do you know that children 18 to 25 years of age are the most overdosed. There's nothing done about it, there's no big commercials on TV, there's no drug learning schools, so a lot of kids who get hooked up to drugs aren't because someone else got them hooked up but out of pure curiosity. I hope that the judiciary, the police, the state's attorneys, will really cooperate more because this is the white plague of the 21st century. It is here in this law that the commission referred to in Article 4 of this Act will be appointed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia within 30 days of the entry into force of this law, that the Commission will, within 30 days, adopt its Rules of Procedure on its work. I propose that this committee should bring the Rules of Procedure on its work and report to the Croatian Parliament so that we know what it is and what it has done with this money. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-01-0.u22198	Thank you. On behalf of the Club LIBRE, Honorable Representative Željko Pavlic. He's gone. He's losing his right. On behalf of the IDS Club, Honorable Representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-01-0.u22199	Dear Mr. President, the esteemed Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Government, the Honorable Mr. Representatives! What to say about this matter, what to say in general about drugs that all of us who have children are afraid of happening to them. But clearly, evil does not happen only to others. And that is why we really need to make an effort to help all those who have given in to this vice, their families, their society as a whole, although this law, among other things, only a little in that direction, should then be clearly accepted. Those who know this matter better than I do, let them teach society, let's not save as Djurdja used to say when the prevention was Wednesday. I'll also say I personally advocate maximum repression. Police, State's Attorney's Office, BUSK, etc. There must be some way to get rid of their hands even though it is understandable to make a distinction between the unfortunate victim on the one hand and those who do so much in order to practically earn money on their victim. The only question is clear how is it that the police do not know the dealers that everyone in one of their loved ones knows, or as Gjurdja says, that there is no de facto in Korčula but that all these children are going to go to Split or Dubrovnik to get heroin or something like that. I also claim that the Penal Code, which is at work in the Republic of Croatia, is sufficiently rigorous. We're all against it, but in our society, it's as if in some way there's a vow of silence, averts and so forth. We all know the same, so I'm going to do it again, it's not just happening to others. It is interesting, among other things, to mention a report which we will only discuss with the State Attorney's Office where it is seen that for the crime referred to in Article 173 relating to drug intoxication in 2003, 6 thousand 28 persons were reported or what is relevant 9.2% less than in 2002 and we are all aware of the facts and this confirms the steps of all clubs that this vice in this country is spreading by progressive rates or progressive numbers. When the mothers of some elementary schools tell me what happens to their sons or daughters of thirteen years old, it's fourteen years for a man to freeze. When I'm told by the parents of the children who go to first grade, the second class that Mr. Milinovic was talking about and the vice president of this House, what they find around these schools. I'll just mention the school of the Viewer in Pula from the syringes further. It's time if society doesn't want us to organize ourselves in some way. Just let it be said whether the community can clearly put an end to it or not. The question is, do we want to talk about it openly, and first of all, I think about my parents? Unfortunately, sometimes we know more about others, about other families, what happens to them than we know about our own. Turns out we have a clear understanding for the communes, both for treatment and so forth, but not to end this speech of silence. And then, gentlemen, it was amazing in that report for 2003. The number reported in 2003 was 9.2% lower than in 2002, and we all know that the problem in 2003 when Wednesday addiction was certainly higher than it was in 2002, as it was in 2004 was incomparably more serious than it was last year. In 2003, 5 thousand 130 minors and 766 minors were reported, but there are only 27.3% of people charged here for drug possession, so 72.7% of what is the closest form of this crime, and now the works referred to in Article 171 have only 27.3% reported which will say that we are dominantly dealing with marginals rather than real criminals who are increasingly entering the business, building houses and buying real estates and the like. It is hard to believe that out of the total number of crimes of minors in 2003 there were 3 thousand 652 such acts, for drug abuse that only 766 people or only 21% participated. So, 766 minors were reported during last year for a certain form of crime in relation to these drug-related incriminations. It is clear that it is not necessary and I believe that this logic is being managed by our attorneyship, the police, etc., by harsh repression towards these young people. But it should also be borne in mind that these young people are in our schools and in 100% of cases among children who are younger than them and as old as they are and all clearly younger than 18 years old. The courts are even more opportunistic. Someone had previously discussed that of that number of 766 applications, 561 applications were rejected from only 517 by applying the principle of purpose i.e. they are minors who are clearly well directed to treatment or counselling for young people. I believe the same thing, and all the clubs have mentioned that we will all be unique in adopting this bill that is undoubtedly going in the direction of the fight against narcotics. In my view, however, this is the most important thing, this Article 3, which allows for the purchase of drugs for, say, health reasons and that the money thus obtained must then be returned to the institutions involved in the treatment of addiction, or that article that speaks of destruction. But just before we heard how many drugs are in various warehouses of our police administrations and really citizens are asking if it's not being destroyed is it possible that any of that amount, under quotes, is coming back to the street again. Interestingly, in a survey in Istria, drug care among citizens has proved to be the first thing of their interest. Even before unemployment. Finally, it may not be weird because that unemployment is somewhere around 6% in Istria County, in some areas about 2%, but as everyone mentioned before in Croatia is registered 18 thousand 746 addicts, and the actual number needs, so we heard that data yesterday and from the Deputy Prime Minister multiply by 4 or 5. If so, then we come to something that is fraternizing that almost 80, 70 or 90 thousand people are in some way in the Republic of Croatia constantly or occasionally in contact with some of the drugs. If we assume that a bunch of young people are then related to this drug, then at the age of 17, 18 to 30, then we see just how scary that 70, 80, or 90,000 is, under quotes, permanent or occasional users of one of the psychotropics. Every year we record at least 1,000 new addicts, more specifically in that 980 report. In 1998, 37 people died of drugs, and in 2003, the number was as much as 95 dead. The number of drug addicts treated is also increasing. The most critical is today in Zagreb, Split, Primorje-Gorski County, clear to Istria County. Well, then, the way things are in the County of Istria, even though everyone who works on that problem convinces me that this problem doesn't need to be dramatic. We first increased expenditure on combating dependence in the county budget by 300%. I am convinced that today in Istria there is something that is happening elsewhere in Western European countries that drug explosions from the 1990s are gone. They tell me, I repeat them, and I quote or paraphrasise that opportunities are stable, that there should be a slight optimism. That we have 600 in that county and some active heroin addicts, and since 1997. 936 registered addicts. But even if the explosion of addiction wasn't there, I'd blow that people's blow to the cold. First of all, I'm aware that we can never eradicate it, secondly, that no matter how much we do, we don't do enough, and I finally fear for my children when they grow up. And there's so much doubt, fear, and perhaps pre-reliance of the problem with me absolutely legitimate. I personally believe that co-operation is as effective as possible for all and homes of health and coordination for the addiction and the police and the attorneys and the Ministry of Justice and the ministry. However, some problems are beginning to arise. A year ago in the Police Administration in Pula, an employee who worked largely to express himself in drug trafficking, Vesnik has been entitled “The Zagreb Police Officer sold 1100 Extasy to an undercover investigator” and what is almost most likely mentioned that the police officer had resorted to no less than at the Police Academy. There's clear stuff all over the world, there's that in other police. There is no exception to Croatia, however, I believe that if we want the problem to be slightly smaller, we should also edit the handbooks during military service because young people and parents complain that their children are easier to get drugs in the military than to the drug in our pharmacy. It's tragic and terrifying, but once again IDS will always support every effort made by the state, the local self-government, any institution when it's clear this problem is done because to express ourselves so we do. It's clear we'll never eradicate it. I said that young people are willing to do anything if they are in some way addicts to get to the drug, but we have to tell that message war because those 18 thousand 476 registered addicts, and nearly 70, 80 thousand real consumers will lead to the fact that in 5 years, there will be over 100,000 people who will be tied to this problem in one way or another. Finally, I even read the information that we have already retired addicts, retired addicts, which will tell us that all their lives, so from their early youth, they were on heroin. And to be honest, no matter what I think of that 70, 80,000 number, but I didn't make it up. She's being mentioned by everyone. I finally said mention her, she's in the bodies that deal with that problem. A short time ago, someone told this speaker that nearly a billion kuna and 600 million kunas in this country, or over 200 million Euros, have been turned over in the context of the fact that some officers who have been particularly prominent during the past years in the discovery of drugs are eventually neglected, remain without compensation for success in their work. I think that should sort of fix it because that way we can also stimulate others to give the most of themselves in the fight against that vice because we are finally that kind of society. We expect that someone else, first of all, will fight the police, the lawyers, and I will repeat, and we forget what we can do about preventing addiction. The most we can do is if our parents, under quotes on the needle, talk about the problem, talk about the problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-01-0.u22200	Thank you. I'm reporting that at 10.44, it's time to apply for a ten-minute hearing. Correction of an incorrect quote by a respected representative of Shima Lucin.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-01-0.u22201	Thank you very much. It is incorrect that based on the number of drug abuses reported, an objective and realistic picture can be obtained in this repressive part of the fight against drugs. Because you can report and arrest one of the 18 thousand registered or how many 80,000 evaluated because you will find him in one period, in one period with drugs in your pocket. So that was one of the reasons, so the real thing would be to talk about the amount of drug seized. That's why we advocated the decriminalization of drugs to get real statistics. Because you can always report addicts and criminally introduce them into statistical data.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-01-0.u22202	Thank you. Agent Ante Markov. He's gone. He's losing his word. Representative Marko Turic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-01-0.u22203	Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor, Deputy Deputy of the Croatian Government. So we have a final law in front of us on drug abuse. The fact that so far we've passed a law that has been a commission that would solve drug abuse since December 91st. However, the fact is that this trust has never been formed or revived without any effect. That is all, these facts have led the Croatian government to come out now with a new final proposal for a law amending and supplementing the drug abuse laws. Of course, when it is looked at in what sense this proposal is, then it can be seen that this commission is no longer formed by the courts but by the Croatian government, that this commission actually gives its members representatives of almost all relevant ministries. From the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Youth, Economy, Home Affairs. Then what is very important is that there is also a representative of the media, so the Croatian society gives its member a journalistic society. Surely this is one way that their work will in many ways narrow down what we've heard, so that it might happen, which is that drugs are being abused, they're going back to the street and so on. It is clear how this commission will act. DA will be court experts, that the drug hire will be on public sale for legal persons, where it could be used as raw materials and for that coin that is obtained to go to the drug protection and control fund further. Of course, one part that's not interesting, the market, if I may say so, would be destroyed. And publicly, I appreciate it very much. Therefore, I think we have seen this before and reports from various committees that they have almost unanimously accepted this final draft of the law. And I also think that this final proposal will in many ways contribute to the protection of life, the health of our children, our people and our citizens. So I don't think it's gonna be hard to raise your hand and accept it completely. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-01-0.u22204	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Vice-President, Mr. Mato Arlovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-01-0.u22205	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. The fact is that this amendment to the law on the prevention of drug abuse actually contains a key reason. His amendment to the issue of the destruction of stolen drugs. And the same should be said that this law, among other things, came as a need and also based on the incentives that the SDP Representatives Club has already made with its bill. Who, in this House, has been rejected by the decision of the majority. But I must say, personally, I have a very large reserve against the proposed solution. You know, for your time in the former system, there was a provision that punishes the offences caused by the possession of more alcohol in traffic. That such income was placed in special means of health protection. So it turns out the more we drank in that former system, the more we needed the maltenes, the more paraphrasing things, to be healthy. So here and here. Something that's by nature dangerous like drugs from one time we say that we can sell to get funds to fight addiction or fight against drug abuse. So I'm afraid colleagues could turn it into a vicious circle. In which, of course, it is increasing steadily, along with all the fight against addiction, those who use and use drugs. But also, there's going to be a hidden interest that in fact, what more stolen drugs can be resold and charged with the budget and then provide funds for the purpose of this. I think that's the wrong attitude. I think personally, that it is also necessary to take care of a fact that is quite new under the circumstances and that such a solution that might be interesting for socialism or for some state socialism can hardly pass in civil society and the free market economy. Because what you're actually offering. That drug sales will be made under the law. This means with exceptional benefits to private-owned companies. Who mostly process drugs and create drugs and everything else and so on. I don't think you should accept that. And that a solution should be accepted that what is dangerous for health, which is the public and special interest of the social and state community, to prevent it from being destroyed. And at the same time, special types of raw materials for the processing and production of drugs as drugs, and so on, some of them on the market do those who are authorised to produce or process drugs in accordance with the special law. That's what I have to say first. The second thing I think, too, is that we should clearly separate the question is, in fact, what we don't want to protest about all the time. And that is that, by this amendment and by supplementing one or several of the laws of the articles, it deals with the institutions. And we are constantly passing new laws, amendments and additions to drug laws. In fact, we get hyper institutional regulation, and they have institutions that need to deal with these issues all the time. And very interestingly, we tie them to budget funds, and they're under the auspices of the state, and often we don't have real indicators of their effectiveness in the fight against drugs. At the same time, a whole series of associations of construction, humanitarian, which have institutions we have left aside in fact and have no chance and opportunity with the appropriate means of maximum development of the fight against addiction against a non-knowledge, over the fight against it and so on. I'm only going to give one example of a humanitarian organization. One you don't even talk about when you're discussing this. They speak of private centres and so on within this or that, but this humanitarian organization that has the best centers is not spoken at all. It's about the Croatian Red Cross. The Croatian Red Cross has 45 centers for fighting addiction, therefore, from drugs, alcohol, cigarettes and so on. 5.6 clubs dealing with those who are cured of the use and use of drugs or alcohol cigarettes and so on. And you could start more than 100 given the network's demarcation. You know what the basic problem is, everything that it already has and what it does is funded from the humanitarian contributions of our citizens, legal persons and so on because special funds from state and local budgets we can't get for such an activity of such a humanitarian organisation. But budgets go to offices, they go to administration, they go to a whole series of other people who actually deal with each other institutionally often of course, neglecting this other approach from everything else. And in every situation, a very responsible question arises. That a lot of times can actually happen what is very important, because we have a constant doubt about how to treat the fight against drug addicts. And it's always polite to use methadones or some other form of drugs to cure that drug addict. And now watch what's interesting. We'll take drugs, resell under favourable conditions to drug manufacturers and other types of drugs that we'll use because we're fighting addiction. I think that in a situation like this, we come very seriously into a situation where we create a vicious circle, and this solution is not the best quality, and it's not the best. I'm in favour of a clean solution that needs to go that way to take the drugs away should be destroyed because it's evil. And that part of the raw materials that are traded for the production of drugs that are also on the basis of drugs are purchased by legal persons who do so. A few, because there is a special law that allows the production and processing of raw materials for the production of drugs. I also have several objections to concrete solutions. It is totally unacceptable for me that the problem of drugs related to a specific programme, I remind you, by law, that, under Article 42 of the general programme, the Government of the Republic of Croatia brings about the fight against drugs, addiction. We've had a special program so far, not a commission, now we're suggesting that instead, and before that, we've had him bring in a health minister, which shows that we're constantly wandering, now we suggest that it's done again by the minister, not by health care, but by social care. I'm sorry, the addict's a sick man. He also needs social assistance, I agree, and social care, but it is primarily a question of how to cure him from addiction, and I am that a special programme, with the co-operation with the office, with cooperation with other ministries, and the Ministry of Social Care, is brought by the health minister and that in this respect reports are submitted to him on the achievement of the fight against addiction. The third observation, which I must also say, is that it is unacceptable to me, you know, the solution offered in Article 1 that reports on the fight against addiction are delivered to the office. And suddenly, the office is an institution that becomes over the roof institution in relation to the ministry. Look, the ministries are in charge of implementing this law, along with inspections carried out by inspection and other supervision of the implementation of this law and of the sudden, as this law is being implemented, reports deliver to the office which instead, the office must actually deliver to this committee, which includes ministers, and then ministers together at the government, to resolve these issues concerning the implementation of a Bosnian and general programme in the fight against addiction. So we're putting something into a situation that actually an institution that needs to have some kind of different character, not related to the realisation of the state's interest and the implementation of the law, we're putting it in a position, in fact, that some kind of superministism is in relation to all the ministries that it has, and this office is not, or can be, by nature of things. Fourthly, of course we need to support the public's absolute presence on this issue of destroying, destroying drugs or, of course, the issue that allows the media representative to be in this part. And the fifth, in particular, which I must point out, is the solution in paragraph 5, which contains records of the type and quantity of drug taken away, of companies and legal persons who have reselled drugs, or sold drugs, if a solution is accepted to sell drugs, and I think it's bad, the question remains what is wrong with the record of where the drug is finished. Did she end up producing drugs or did she not give it to God, untraceablely disappeared. What about the control of that record in those legal entities, etc.? Look, let's not forget the fact that we've had very large quantities of drugs that have already been taken, and we're not talking about those facts that warn that there's a lot of drugs in the warehouses, since so far the law has not actually been implemented in that segment, because there have been no commissions that should have been present in the destruction of drugs, of course from the competent courts, etc. And nature, there's another question, you know. There isn't, among other things, an effective struggle, and that is actually an anti-dependence without a human being involved. Now the question is how to stimulate and encourage people to be quality, from health, social, so if you want to be preventive, about drug abuse, people to practically contribute to the fight against addiction, to the fight against drug abuse and use. I don't see any different reasons or possibilities than to give appropriate forms of motivation. One of the motivational aspects that is the basis, which strongly encourages people to do so, is moral and it is not clear to me that, in fact, from police officers across a whole series of experts in health care, social and humanitarian work, in fact very little happens to people to get awards, praises, so if you want to get special recognitions and medals to contribute to the protection of human health and the fight against addiction in situations where these people practically give up the whole, whole range of years and their own free and working time in the fight against the great evil of modern man. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-01-0.u22206	Thank you very much. Now, a proposaler's representative, Minister Andrija Hebrang, has come forward.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-01-0.u22207	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'd just like to respond to a few big regrets, because unfortunately, I already have other obknows. This is where the debate on the whole drug problem opened, which was not, of course, the subject of this amendment and the addition of the existing law. We just wanted to delay this one great uncertainty in drug management, which therefore ends up in warehouses under the attention of the MUP and piles up and represents one potential danger and, of course, a material burden. Otherwise, the whole drug debate will soon come before this esteemed home, because yesterday at the government we just adopted a report from the Drug Control Office. So there's going to be an opportunity to discuss and correct the whole of this problem. I would only respond to two remarks concerning the amendments to this law itself, i.e. to Mr Lesar's remarks, which asked whom the Department of Drug Control submitted the report, excuse the Public Health Office. He submitted a report to the Drug Control Office, but we did not specifically state this because it is already mentioned in Article 8(4) of the Law, so we did not specify it. It is justified to comment on the deadlines when and to whom it endures. We couldn't determine that either, because it was also solved by other acts. In this case, it was settled with the statistical reporting programme that the Government brings each year and it set these deadlines that we had to install there. So that's one correction that can be corrected in the future if you think it's too long, it's not appropriate. So the Croatian Institute of Public Health must submit the report by 30 June of each year for the previous year. So we're actually limited by existing regulations. What depends on us is Mr. Lucin's observation, or SDP's Club of Representatives. The jurisdiction should be defined by the Ministry of Health in order to give a message that addiction is a disease. It's absolutely formal and essentially fine and it really should be a message given. Why did we give jurisdiction to the Minister for Social Welfare? Because according to the Drug Prevention Act, Article 37 further assists an addict or a temporary drug user, an occasional drug user, is fully determined in social care. So social care centres and all other institutions are given this law in social care, so we have therefore drawn out this jurisdiction. Now, at this point, it actually doesn't matter, because it's the same minister, but if there were to be a separation of the ministries again, then we thought it would be better if he stayed under the Ministry of Social Welfare, the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Social Welfare, because the law so determines so that we wouldn't have to enter into changes to the entire law, then such an amendment, unfortunately, would not be able to accept for these formal reasons. We have recorded all other comments and will certainly use them in the analysis of the report of the Office for the Control of Intoxication Drugs, which is soon coming to this high house. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-01-0.u22208	Thank you very much. Now the word has Mr. Representative Zlatko Kramarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-01-0.u22209	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. I don't think anyone would be happier than us if, with certain changes to the law, amendments and additions to the law, we could solve problems and so on, the problem of drugs. But I'm afraid we're aware as much as we talk about this problem, how much we're making and changing laws, that the problem is getting more and more multiplying from day to day. Here, let's just start with this law that only has one really technical application and why are the reasons why they're being passed? We passed some laws, then ourselves.../The speaker turned off, then turned back on./... and the question arises what actually happened, which is why the courts did not provide commissions, did anyone answer for it? Why didn't he answer, and when will he answer? Or is it simple that when we adopt this new law ourselves, we have already predicted that this law will not be implemented. That's not what I'm saying, if we do this, then all of our discussions, which in recent years have been very much going to show up, actually the more we talk to myself, the more the problem in the meantime multiples. In other words, we actually lead a double life. On the one hand, the problem is recorded, it's being debated, we're sensitized to solve this problem and it's actually showing that the number of addicts in one short time has increased from 13,000 to 18,000, and then again it's said we're all more or less aware that we're facing the phenomenon of the summit of ice, that the problem is actually still where and where larger, and that it can really be said that this number is moving between 60 and 70, and even 80 thousand. It's actually a big Croatian town, and now imagine actually this one frustrating situation to talk about such a large population that is moving, which should be solved. Now there's a question of what to do. Surely solutions are not simple and are not easy, and where and where the wealthier societies and societies with more experience with this problem have not been found. What I'm saying again, again, what is actually repeating to me with, at the local level and at the state level, we're setting up these certain centres for the treatment of addiction and there are certain means to be known, but now try to compare, this is said here with figures that the drug market, to turn around about EUR 200 million annually, and these some have calculated that on the other hand the funds provided by the state and local self-government do not move more than 12 million kunas. And now try to really compare how it's possible for you to actually try to get into a job where there's really a lot of money going on. And precisely because big money is being turned around it shows that there are actually many interests in this segment and that there should be more courage and it should open up questions that can and for our society be quite painful, is it evident that syringes, all, ecstasy, all pills, all that you find around kindergartens, around schools, around these clubs where our youth is having fun, and that we actually know very well who it is, it's a public secret actually, who in which particular environment does these things. I'll just repeat one ossier case a few years ago, when a poor good cop, who was in charge of it, who confronted with a certain that underground that.../The speaker turned off, and again involved./... deals with drugs, in fact, that the funds in the media were, in fact, created a completely wrong picture and that actually part of the media narrated over the fate of those there unfortunate young men, and in some ways the policeman was called because of the lack of use of force or attempt, and tried to solve this problem, was such that he was suspended and that in some way it was given the green light that those fighting against being sanctioned, and those who were the promoters of this particular dangerous job had somehow dropped the victims in public. This, I think, is inadmissible and indeed when it comes to the need for motivation, then it is clear that the right approach should be quite the opposite, and that these people who are really working on prevention, to combat that they should be rewarded, that they should in some way be even more motivated to do this job, and the monsters of this 21st century that Croatia is facing in a different way to be valorised. The same thing that bothers me and as a liberal is that it is precisely some uncertainty in this final draft of the law amending and supplementing the law, which comes to a rather vague interference between the judicial and executive authorities, and I fear that such interventions are not quite the most complex and that they do not in any way guarantee that there will be a shift, and I say and will return to these reasons why the law is being passed, which is actually that the law that we passed in December 2001 was simply not implemented without actually being sanctioned. And I say now it's moving again into this rather vague action, which I'm also not sure will work. I'm saying I'd like to be denied, but here's the experience here teaches us that they're simple, that the more we talk about this problem, the more we talk about this problem, the more it's just multiplying and how it solves. Normally, it's difficult to be against this bill, it's logical in itself, and I say and it's mostly technical character, but what you would call a representative, it's certainly if we want to eradicate this phenomenon or bring it down to as little as possible, then the funds that revolve around that market, I say about 200, drugs around 200 million euros, should be adequately monitored by these funds, whether at local level, or at the state level. I think it's actually the only way that you with 12 million kunas or how much it's already exactly spinning on this side of prevention and some reaction to what's going on in reality is that it's too small and then that such a battle is lost in advance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-01-0.u22210	Thank you very much. Ms. Representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-01-0.u22211	Thank you, Mr. President. Honorable representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. Here is what you had opportunity to hear and hear from the representatives of our club Mr. Sima Lučin, and so I, and probably the other speakers from the SDP, join us, i.e. we support this Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prevention of Drug Abuse, which was actually proposed by the Government, i.e. the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prevention of Drug Abuse, which was proposed by the SDP Club. And it is a good solution that this amendment refers to courts being deprived of this provision, which was imposed on them in the Law on the control of drug abuses, that they participate in exactly the same dominant way as provided for by the Drug Destroying Act. It's their job, it's their business, it's nowhere, there's something like that in the world. However, what I feel is also worth mentioning, and as a grudge, a major problem that can arise from this final bill, which is the primary goal of how to destroy seized drugs. Whether we have equipped burner rooms, so here we don't have someone who could go out for a pay phone right now and say something about it, but certainly it's something that even raises the question then and re-implementing this final bill of amendments and additions to the Law on drug repression and abuse, because, as our colleague Mato Arlovic said, we are constantly passing laws, institutions on these topics, but the question is ultimately whether there will be opportunities again, an effective possibility of application. But what this opportunity also raises as a fundamental question is how do drugs come into our market in the first place and how to fight the abuse of intoxicating drugs effectively. I think that's the key question. The key question is that, finally, in this matter and in the debate on this issue, we ask this question because it is a matter of distinction from irrelevant. There's still a huge amount of drugs coming in on our market. The state in this regard has shown absolute impotence, and ultimately the unwillingness to deal with it. Why? Because he spends a lot of energy where he doesn't have to spend it. The coalition government has just wanted that state-run repressive apparatus to be directed right towards business carriers, repeating, drug lords, drug dealers. The report, the State's Attorney's Annual Report and for this year, and for the past year as well as the previous years, shows something that must be given to us as legislators, but as well as to warn the Government as a promoter and ultimately give him the incentive to do something in that sense and change. The basic and the message about these crimes of drug abuse, and even with repressive apparatus, is a basic password: "help instead of punishment". We see that our criminal justice is being exhausted in processing and punishing the very use of intoxicating drugs, and that's only for possession of drugs by about 73% already. And in the total mass of crime, only drug possession is involved in alarming already nearly 20%. Then what other matter can I deal with? And that's totally wrong throwing and spending state money. So much resources, so much time, so much money, so many cops, so many state attorneys and courts who directed their work and their blade because we forced them to deal with just the victims, not criminals. We have seen here from the HDZ Club that simply their democratic principle does not allow decriminalization. No one was even talking about decriminalization. It was about the right thing to do. In order to respond to a misdemeanor by means of measures, to free that energy, that means, that power to be more effective in preventing drug traffickers from bringing drugs to our market. Drugs are completely dilated, the market is almost and saturated, drugs can be obtained in any place. And if the state, but there's a question here why it won't do it. Why doesn't he direct his forces to prevent a drug from being brought into the market? We are absolutely incompetent here, and we are incompetent for the very good part and for this existing legislative solution. Both the coalition government and the SDP club insist that, in principle, it is precisely distinctions that are important from non-essential assistance, care, protection, education, assistance to these victims, not repression. And the repression where and how it should be done. So, then how many of our repressive bodies have just dealt with these drug dealers, drug manufacturers, the mob. After all, the blade is also numbed because it is these young people most often victims, most often and processed, who are lost as precious witnesses in that chain, in that pyramid. And that's what repressive bodies keep warning about, and that's what the police and the state's attorney's office are always warning about, and then we're pretending to be deaf, dumb, and blind in such a situation. And I'm saying that money is only 1% of these huge state funds where they went to use it to prevent, help these victims, not criminals, say they'd have a far, far better situation. The government in this year didn't do God knows what. Here, this is also visible from the Implementation Plan, according to the division of the state budget, where not 40% were achieved precisely in those modest means that were allocated to the Office for the Prevention of Drug Abuse. So there's a question of helping these too, and those resources would be far greater. They could then be better used if then it was just going on that trail bigger, so, help, less repression. I also mention here the same in helping with education, as provided for by the Law on Infringements and complete in the implementation of the National Action Plan, i.e. in the fight against drug abuse. So, finally, the basic message is here and in this problem, therefore, this law wants to destroy drugs, but the question is raised, and there is the responsibility of the government to do what it does, how it does, and to find an effective mechanism to prevent, or to reduce the touch of drugs on the market. In the case of an existing persistent rejection of how to resolve it, especially in this repressive part, where it persists in refusing to get kicked out of the Penal Code as a criminal offense of drug possession, we won't move much from the scene. The facts are unsettlingly saying that such a setting of repressive things as they are set does not give satisfactory results. In fact, here we heard yesterday and the vice president of the government that the number of addicts keeps growing year after year. Therefore, our proposal here is, by supporting this Final Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prevention of Drug Abuse, but with a special emphasis that, tomorrow, in the implementation of both the Government and the bodies implementing this significant drug destruction provision, are not brought into a sudden situation, and how to burn these drugs? Do we have these burners, which, because they are ultimately dangerous substances, they cannot be destroyed as other substances safely. Is it in that sense, so it would be good and interesting to hear here also the promoter whether there is a satisfactory solution to that, that this final proposal could be implemented at all. But in the end, the government remains responsible for the flow of drugs to our market. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-01-0.u22212	Thank you. Dear Representative Vladimir Šišljagic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-01-0.u22213	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, the distinguished representative of the government, colleagues and colleagues. Here, today after 5 months, we have a final proposal to amend and supplement the Law on the control of drug abuse after we discussed it here in April. We see that the promoter, i.e. the government, has largely incorporated most of the proposals into the Final Proposal for these amendments and additions. What's built in? There's a built-in possibility of drug abuse being sold, of course in those cases where it can serve as raw materials. The sale shall be based on the provisions of the Executive Act on the sale of movables, oral and public auctions. And only to a legal person who has the authority to make intoxicating drugs. So not to trade societies, but to the oral auction of that legal person who already has the approval to make intoxicating drugs. Money collected from this kind of sale is directed to the state budget with the sole purpose of implementing measures to combat drug abuse, and I personally think it's a good thing. However, if there is no interest in legal persons to sell goods on the market through the provisions of the Implementing Law and to target the funds to the state budget for the control of drug abuse, then this drug is destroyed, then the decision on destruction is made by a body which has also taken a decision to confiscate the intoxicating drug, therefore, by the competent courts. Over the past years, the public has had opportunities to convince themselves that they have given up in quantity and that large quantities of drug abuse have not been destroyed or that the courts have not been brought or appointed by the committees responsible for the destruction of the intoxicating quantities of intoxicating drugs. And I think, therefore, that it is not logical in the debate of my predecessors that the government's explanation of why these amendments and additions are brought does not seem logical or convincing, but I do believe that it is precisely logical and convincing because it is the fact that the courts have not appointed a single commission since 2001. So, members of the 7-member committee are proposed by the Government, made up of one representative of the Office for the Prevention of Drug Abuse and Ministry of Internal Affairs, Health, Justice, Family and Economy, and what the Proposer accepted and after the debate in the first reading and which I think is also a good representative of the Croatian Journalist Society. And finally, this bill sets out the commission's obligation to report every three months to the Government of the Republic of Croatia on its work and on the destruction of intoxicating drugs. So by forming a permanent commission, we won't have such a void that for three years in fact, the courts that were in charge don't name a single commission and that it actually prevents drug abuse from being destroyed. This will ensure continuous and controlled implementation of the destruction of drug abuses, but also prevent possible and very likely abuses and drug abuses. And finally, I must certainly express my satisfaction with what we have heard today in today's debate that it will seem, that we will reach a consensus on these amendments and the addition of the Law on the Prevention of Drug Abuse, of course I support this text, that I support these amendments and amendments to the Law in the text as proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-01-0.u22214	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Marin Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-01-0.u22215	Dear Mr. President, Madam Assistant Minister, colleagues and colleagues. I mean, when it comes to this subject, it's really good to have a consensus and it's bad when we politicize, when we talk about these topics if we politicize. This is a topic of general interest we have talked about many times in the Parliament and this is also an important bill. I thought, or I would like the Deputy Prime Minister Mr. Hebrang who had to leave because of important jobs remained a little while longer, because I thought to ask him one thing that remained unclear to me, I don't know the assistant seems unable to speak to me on behalf of the government, but I am interested in that answer to the question of where this drug is going to be destroyed, i.e. what with the burners is known that those countries that have similar laws, which I support, have specific burn plants, as far as I know in Croatia are not. It seems to me that this is a very important question, and I would like it to be apart from the general part where it is said that it will provide these technical assumptions for the implementation of this Law, to decidently respond to what is going on with these burners where they are thought and how they are going to burn drugs. Here, more of my predecessors said that unfortunately, the inflow of drugs on the Croatian market has not been reduced, and the illegal market is really the question of how many of us have succeeded in this series of years together, I'm not now talking about this period just for a short time how much we've managed to hit if you want a handful of repression in the head of those who produce, distribute drugs, and how much we've missed it, and somehow always hit that handful of law by the ones that I consider most of the victims, who are 2/3 of those who have been processed. So it seems to me that this is a very important question, and that's why I was surprised this morning when I read in one daily newspaper that the police who seized 336 kilos of heroin were not rewarded for a day of police, etc., I think that these are the kind of people that should be rewarded, that these are the extraordinary successes of the police, that it should be stimulated by all those involved, that they really try to prevent those who are addicts, who are the patients from getting in touch with that drug. This morning they were here, and they saw these students of a Serbian high school, Marko Marulić High School and we part of our representatives from the Dalmatian-Split County had a conversation with them this morning, the first question was the drug issue. So, who came from young people that's fourth grade high school graduates. This was the question of precisely this "decriminalisation, legalisation" etc., this problem that is constantly being dragged on, and it seems to me that this is the point where sometimes it is politicised unnecessaryly because I am deeply convinced that all parties and HDZ and SDP, HNS, HSP, HSS, that I do not list them all here want to be resolved as effectively as possible. It is known that the solutions were also different during the former HDZ government, so during the coalition... now, etc., there are different opinions. I think it's bad to politicize and I've thought of one thing under the influence of something I saw the other day, it seems to me that the best, strongest or largest anti-narcomanic project I've ever seen in Croatia is actually a film that I saw before last night, which is called this wonderful Split Night, the author of Arsen Ostojić, which speaks precisely about this topic in such a way that it's extraordinary to watch a film, indeed one excellent Croatian film on the subject, I would recommend that this film enters into some mandatory part of our primary and secondary schools education, as well as colleges to be watched by students, because it makes one precise and artistic distinction between drug tragedy in a social special environment of patients and what they might call a drug dealer. It seems to me that this film has hit a lot more than many of our programs, and it seems to me that we have a huge job here, and I come from a city that has often been tied up so Split to this great drug monster, and fortunately today it is linked to some pretty significant successes in suppressing the spread of drug abuse, etc. And I'm convinced that this particular ambience could have given birth to such a remarkable sensitivity to make such a remarkable film. So I wouldn't speak anymore, supporting this bill. I really appeal to us in the part where we settle other laws, make a distinction between patients and criminals. The repression must be directed towards everyone in its own way, but therefore, who comes into conflict with the law, but it cannot be dosed equally in terms of qualifications, I mean that criminal weight, etc. And what follows the young man later all his life. That would be all with another appeal, without doubting the well-meaning of all of us here absolutely trying to establish one national consensus and party consensus.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-01-0.u22216	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we still have three MPs and one on behalf of the club for five minutes. In order not to, 12 is scheduled to vote. In order not to have one or two speakers continue this topic on Tuesday, I suggest that those who come to try to be a little shorter not to use their full time. Replica is a respected representative of Shima Lucin.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-01-0.u22217	Oh, I'd like to speak briefly about the repressive system. The repressive system may be effective to that extent if it has an adequate legal basis. We simply have to choose to settle some things in our legislation, so if you want only from a term. About like this. If you don't have the law to define what a drug is, then you have a problem with the destruction of drugs, because it's illegal, excuse me for selling drugs. Because then you can't sell illegal drugs. The repressive system must be the last instance and the last measure in the fight against narcotics, illegal drug trafficking. He is important and can't be without him, but prevention and I think prevention is the only right way to fight this evil.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-01-0.u22218	The esteemed officer Franjo Arabovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-01-0.u22219	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. I think I'll take advantage of what you said, listen to the President of the Parliament and cut my debate short, because more or less everything is said and we'll all agree on one law that is passed that needs to be implemented as soon as possible in order to live and have control over it. So it doesn't mean anything to us if we confiscate huge amounts of drugs if we don't know what to do with that drug when it's seized, sold to, sold and given and burned. I think it should be transparent and public, with the media, along with this commission and the normal presence of the Ministry of the Interior. So let's go, to know we've seized so much drugs, we've burned it so much, we've sold this part to the people who have the right to do it. And I mean, unfortunately, there's been one really bad thing that's happened lately, that drugs have come to sports. I'd only say for a little while, that as much as we fight athletes, the former, future, present, no matter, the sport of drugs. I mean, we live inevitably in a time where drugs come through every door in our lives, into families, and so on into sports. Thus, the World Olympic Committee’s worldwide organization has reached a very important conclusion that might help to get drugs out of sports. Thus, at the last Olympics, which was just over a month ago, a regulation was passed that all athletes had to sign that the urine given on anti-doping control was stored for as long as ten years. So he's been standing for ten years, and if in nine and a half, ten years there's a substance in that urine, an Olympic medal winner, and any medal, he has to return the medal. I think it's one repressive measure to clear sport from that evil. That's why cleaning up normally is impossible, streets. Unfortunately, at school, I have two kids who go to school, and I see what happens in front of schools. It is now one question that we all need together as I have noticed that we are all more or less in the same direction, maybe someone else is just saying something different, so we don't understand each other, but this law we'll all support in a unanimous way, changes to this law supplement and the problem itself is that in a month or two days we're talking again about what has been done, how much has been done, whether that commission has come to life, how much drugs have been seized, whether anything has been burned and normal that we're going to try to speed up our judiciary from here to solve it. Don't give it to God cocaine, or 100 kilos, let's leave a kilo for forensic analysis, and we burn 99 in public. So much and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-01-0.u22220	Thank you. Dear Representative Zeljko Kurtov.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-01-0.u22221	Dear President, colleagues and colleagues, I'll be very brief. The question is why the courts didn't set up a single commission to destroy intoxicating drugs. Well, my opinion is that they were personally afraid of responsibilities, so they might not be burning the blow instead of drugs, because in public they're speculating that drugs are disappearing from police warehouses, etc. I think we should look for reasons why it's not set up. As far as this is concerned, I ask again and I suggest that KBC Dubrava create a specialised unit for the treatment of PTSD and drug addiction diseases so that we have a response to the current situation on the ground and there is no exit. In a few years, the problem will culminate, and we'll be in a situation where we won't even know how to help those groups of people that are involved. As far as prevention is concerned, we simply need to use in Croatia experience already successful in this business. I think they've done a lot in Istria, in certain cities to prevent drug addiction, and so in a small municipality in Dalmatia, we've created an education center to fight addiction. We made flyers involving both the parishioners and the nun and the school director and all the political organizations, the mayor of the municipality, etc. And I can tell you that we've had a lot of success. We've painted all kinds of drugs. Parents were instructed to identify children who were under what type of drugs. We've painted all kinds of tools for drug use so we've come close to every house, every home, this problem. I'm gonna cut my discussion short, and I'm gonna get this over with. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-01-0.u22222	Thank you. Dear Representative Frano Piploic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-01-0.u22223	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. I'll also be very brief and the amendment has already arrived on the bench. For the purposes of this Decision, the following definitions shall apply: The final proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prevention of the Abuse of Intoxication Drugs under Article 51 is added in Article 51a(2), states that the Croatian Journalist Society is one of the seven members to be appointed by the Government. Clearly, it is because of the public interest. I suggest that there be a change. Croatian news society is an association that protects members, the interests of its members, not the interests of the public. Therefore, it is not certain that information about the destruction of drugs will reach the Croatian public. I propose a Croatian news agency to HINA, which has that obligation in the final state, pays it, has its correspondence throughout Croatia. For example, when a drug contingent is destroyed in Dubrovnik, it does not have to go to a representative of HINA from Zagreb, but has a correspondent in Metkovic, Obuzen, Dubrovnik, who, on behalf of the Croatian news agency, will be in charge there. So my suggestion is to respect this, because then information will certainly come to the public, to the final media, or to the printed and electronic media. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-01-0.u22224	Thank you. Replica, the esteemed representative of Shima Lucin.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-01-0.u22225	It seems to me that my colleague Puplić has not finished reading the law. Drugs must be destroyed in front of the commission. So, you can't delegate one commissioner today, tomorrow the third trust, but must be the same. I don't think it's good in this high school, since we're often the target of the media because of certain clumsy statements about the journalistic profession, I don't think it's as good as this at speed as it is, generally, to give grades and mistrust to members of the Croatian Journalist Society. Because I am convinced that a large number or a large majority of even journalists working in the Croatian Information Agency are actually members of the Croatian Journalist Society. Otherwise, it's easy to say the grades. There we could hear today that actually the cops are almost, turns out the cops are the biggest drug dealers, so they're being questioned. Well, that's not true, people. Neither the police nor the journalists are anything but a cross-section or if you want a proposal from the Croatian society. As in every profession, there are high-quality and good people. So let us not open up some topics that we do not need in this home.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-01-0.u22226	Replica response, respected representative Frano Piploić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-01-0.u22227	Dear colleague Lucin, I am a member of the Croatian Journalist Society, for 20 and more years I have eaten journalistic bread and I know well what the duties and duties of the organization are. It would be the same as if you would association fishermen have an association of fishermen in Split that should sell your fish. Please, nice. Croatian news society is an association that protects the interests of members, not the public. And it is the Croatian news agency that can have one man who will be here in Zagreb or anywhere that will reach all the points of Croatia where drugs will be destroyed and the public is guaranteed via HINA.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-01-0.u22228	Thank you. And distinguished representative Željko Pavlic, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-01-0.u22229	Your Honor, Mr. President, let me get involved in this debate, too. Let me begin by saying that I will be restrained when this law is passed, primarily for the principal reasons that Club LIBRE has stated in the first reading of this law. In this law, it is proposed that the proposed commission not propose the body of the court which has decided to take up intoxicating drugs, parts of plants or substances, but that this new commission be appointed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. In my opinion, it is not acceptable for the proposed amendments to the law to move towards the transfer of responsibilities for the destruction of intoxicating drugs from the judicial authorities to the authorities of the executive authority. In my opinion, there is an unnecessary concentration of authority among the executive authorities, and with regard to the destruction of drug abuses. And without the real need and the demining of the role of the judicial bodies. And just to repeat, so far, the courts have just been authorized to name the body under which the drugs will be destroyed. And those solutions, as explained above, that the existing solutions have not received the expected results should be seen in the context of the failure to implement the law, not its shortcomings. We already have an explanation here, so since December 2001, this commission has not been functioning in courts. But we didn't get a concrete answer as to why it was, which is why there were no such committees. And just as much as that former government blames itself, I'm asking why that didn't happen this year, i.e. Why did we not receive that answer from the first to the second reading of this Law in the first reading? In this way we come to a situation that is not alone that we try to solve certain problems, so not by implementing existing laws, but by passing new laws that are often more complicated than those before, it also reminds us of those Churchills, so statements and sayings about, that if you don't want to solve a problem, then you have to set up some kind of commission. We don't want that to happen, so we want to solve this problem effectively, the problem of destroying intoxicating drugs, in a way that starts to solve it already today, and that certainly enables us by passing the law. One of the problems is that Croatia does not have a suitable burner, but the proposals were also in the first reading, so that such burner facilities are used in neighbouring countries, unfortunately it is not accepted, and the situation remains the same. And the situation is relevant, because the data specifically tells us that, for example, during 2002, a total of 7 thousand 585 were seized from all types of intoxicating drugs. That over the course of 2003, 16.1%) was seized less, 6 thousand 366. Last year, more than 85kg of heroin was received in Croatia, almost 30,000 ecstasy tablets, which is quite, which is a large number, it is not known what will be done with these drugs. We were familiar with today's debate, so the data contained in the drug tracking register, where 18 thousand 476 people have been registered so far, and an average of about 2,000 new addicts are recorded annually. I think it would be important to warn, therefore, of some other facts, of some of the facts involved, so these figures. And that's, for example, growing the number of birth addicts. Although this increase is recorded in prominences, which may not sound so alarming and the trend in the number of births of addicts. Last year, in our birthplaces, they gave birth to 42 mothers addicts. Which is 13.5% higher than in 2002 when there were 37 addicts. So that trend is on the rise. Also, the special section in the report tells us about the seizure of illegal drugs among members of the armed forces. The comparison of intoxicating quantities over the past three years has seen an increase in heroin users among soldiers. In 2003, 444 grams were intoxicated, and from the three previous years a total of 40, so the gram is making great progress. So, with the school and the army, another institution, especially here, I mean the manual composition that is under pressure, so those who presell the other one. And in the context of this fact, I would also mention our initiative, so to end the mandatory service of a military deadline that would contribute, so that these phenomena don't happen. What I would also like to warn about is the same observation already made here several times in the debate concerns Article 1(3) on a specific programme of measures to dissipate addiction and care for addicts, which is carried out on care, that is, by the minister of social care. I don't think that's good, especially as far as this part is concerned about withdrawal measures. I think it's a clean, or mostly a medical problem. One of the ways to get rid of methadone. In that system, so this methadone therapy is currently a major chaos if we accept this, I think that chaos would increase. And we know that methadone is prescribed by a doctor. And that doctor is in charge of the health minister, and I think that part of the withdrawal measure should therefore remain under the supervision of the health minister. So in this spirit of this law, I will be restrained and that is the conclusion of the Club of Libre. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-01-0.u22230	Thank you very much. I'd like another assistant minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-01-0.u22231	Dear Mr. President, honourable MPs and MPs! In addition to the proposal by Mr Fran Pivlić, which refers to Article 4 of the Bill on Amendments and Completion of Laws, which would place a Croatian news agency instead of the Croatian Journalist Society that would delegate a member to the commission. The proposer is of the opinion that the above amendment could not be accepted because it considers it more appropriate to be a member of the Croatian Journalist Society in the composition of a commission which therefore acts as a permanent committee and the public reporting obligation is already prescribed in the provision of Article 51, paragraph 3, of the new law, which states that the Commission is submitting a quarterly report to the Government of the Republic of Croatia on its work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-01-0.u22232	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. And finally, the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Completion of the Law on the Prevention of Drug Abuse, Second Reading, P.Z. No. 52. The debate on the text of the law is over. We have amendments from Sima Lučina and Frana Piplovic, which the promoter does not accept, so we will first vote on the amendment submitted by the respected representative Sima Lucin. Please engage. What? ... Here you go. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-01-0.u22234	Mr. President, since we've heard the argument, allow me one sentence. It's about the next one. De facto, in fact, the spirit of the law has been said by the Deputy Prime Minister that this amendment cannot be accepted, but since this is about a special programme, for the simple reason that unless this amendment is accepted, it gets the impression that addicts are social cases, and I repeat, they are not social cases, they are primarily patients who require medical care. So, please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-01-0.u22235	Please engage. The vote. Score. I find that against Amendment 67, 44 and 8 abstentions, he has not received the required majority. The second amendment is the respected representative Frana Piplovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-01-0.u22236	Mr. President, since the motionor has not accepted the amendment, I am withdrawing the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-01-0.u22237	Thank you. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please engage. The vote. Score. I find that with 103 votes for, 11 abstentions, no votes against the proposed conclusion. Ladies and gentlemen of the House of Representatives, we have finished the vote today. The next session is Tuesday at 9.30. We start with point 11 and 12, etc. Therefore, it is essential to amend and supplement the Executive Code. And again, I invite all MPs to the October 7th meeting of the Croatian Parliament at 10:30 on Independence Day. Thank you very much.
