ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-04-0.u13650	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. We are aware of the great importance for all of our citizens of the Law on Community Government, and the fact that this law should be fully ignored as a new law. As I said on all committees, we have committed ourselves to making a new law on the municipal economy by the end of the year, a new law on construction, and a new law on spatial planning. And that all three laws must go to the same session at the end of this year or early next year. However, because of the operationality and the problems that arise especially in local administration units, we ask you to accept the urgent procedure and these border and supplement laws to the municipal economy. What they're showing themselves in. The first thing we want to introduce is to ban the integration of lawlessly built objects into the communal infrastructure again. It turned out in this law two and a half years ago we think it should be returned because the situation with illegal construction is very difficult, and we have more action that we support not only the collapse that is mentioned only in the newspaper. But more action, one of these is the one we propose in amendments to the legislation on the cumulative economy. The two amendments we propose are at the request of local self-government units, and this is about paying the municipal contribution that simply people who seek and receive a building permit do not pay because for various reasons. We propose that in this law to enter that the first war of municipal contributions, or whose municipal contribution, depends on what kind of solution the unit of local self-government has issued. It must be paid before a building permit is given to a specific entity. In this way, the units of local self-government will receive much of the funds and be able to build what they are bound by this law. And as far as one more thing is concerned, the units of local self-government are asking for is the payment of the communal cleanliness service in those cities to the municipalities of G. where the disposal of the trash is determined and secured because this hour happens because it does not strictly say in the law that people have to pay. Citizens simply say anma doesn't need it, they take the trash to other ends or to other people's containers, and they don't want to pay for the cleanliness service. That is why we suggest that this law be introduced, and that every one that has an organized disposal of garbage must pay for that transport regardless of whether it enters into its corner or another. We are also introducing a programme for building municipal infrastructure facilities for each year, as so far a programme of measures has been developed to improve the state of the profession that remains. A two-year programme which was the basis for calculating the municipal contribution. We here suggest that, in addition to this, a progarm for each year is created and a construction programme and that every subject knows and knows and knows and every applicant is aware of when its facility will be able to be connected to the municipal infrastructure. There's also one thing that's important, and that's that we've singled out the equipment from the funeral jobs and we're going to suggest that the equipment goes to the free market, and that everything else remains buried in those funeral jobs. It shall be introduced in the criminal provisions as prescribed for all those joining illegal facilities for all those who have illegally joined those facilities of the penalties imposed. And we suggest that penalties be prescribed for the mayors and mayors if they do not comply exactly with this law on the communal economy. You can see that at this time we have problems in certain areas of Croatia. While there is no building permit, it is clear that certain entities will not be able to obtain that building permit. Because according to the county's spatial plan, they're located in the space of another purpose. So these are these important changes. We think that they are very important to go through an emergency procedure, and so once again I ask you to support this bill, as all committees have so far supported it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-04-0.u13651	Thank you, Madam Minister. Would you like to take a word of the committee's reporters? They do. I'm opening a debate. The first is the club HSPa, Mr Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-04-0.u13652	Madam Vice President, Madam Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Today, we are facing a very important change in the law on the municipal economy, why it is very important. It is important for Croatian citizens for Croatian consumers, because the applicable law regulates many communal activities such as drinking water. Disposal, gas supply, heat supply, passenger transport, cleanliness maintenance, disposal of municipal waste. Maintaining public surfaces, maintaining other important things means the lives of all people. And that's why we think it's a short time to, or too short, that and for too long, you've given it to go somewhere just at the end of the year with a whole new law on the communal economy. I say this because it needs to be done as soon as possible because we have in this area as well as other areas of the rule of law. A number of laws that regulate one or another issues differently. And things happen that our citizens, despite the Consumer Protection Act, are left to one link, so-called. I have to tell you, I'll back you up in a piece of what kind of link, municipal legal persons, means utility companies. I will give you one example, and other examples will tell you my distinguished colleague, Pejo Trčević, who also knows these examples well, but during his term of office while he was mayor and things didn't happen. Now I'm just going to tell you a few examples of how municipal legal people cheat on Croatian citizens, and we know for a fact that, the monopoly is dangerous. We used to have a monopoly on tobacco and we used to have a monopoly on salt. So every monopoly is dangerous and that's why it's important in this, and we agree normally that these jobs belong to local administrations and self-government and that these jobs have to be in their jurisdiction, but there's a larger role of headships meaning municipalities and cities that... and on the other hand we have to have clear and precise regulations. I'll just give you the details of how and how utility companies cheat on citizens. For example, in the context of community service. supply of drinking water. The supplier collects something that is not a municipal service such as Water maintenance and repair. He collects it, and these costs cannot be charged by the users because they are considered to be operating costs for the utility company. We still have examples. Normally, it's not the minister's fault and hers. Some providers of utility services, e.g. The supply of drinking water in their distribution area does so to charge pausal to the owners of the cottages, and they do not have the right to charge any cobwebs, they can charge actual consumption. The thing here is very simple and clear. Let's say it's no longer a delivery, a delivery service provider, for example, an example of gas supply. For users in the gas bill, it shows greater consumption but real, let's say 200 meters of cubic gas is read and in the account it puts it 220 metres of cubic and then explains that it is that way, and in this way it means an increased price of cubic gas meters, explains that it is related to the increase, justifies by increasing the heating power of the gas. Let's move on to examples. The option is next, that it's the same supplier and drinking water and gas, and man doesn't pay for gas, he shuts it down. Or the variant has been passed by law which is now finally clarified here, the Energy Activity Act has been passed and the Energy and Gas Market Act is passed that no longer includes distribution in municipal activities. But, look at the wonders, these utility companies are still charging for the municipal gas connection service, and they have no right to join. And what's going on? What all are, and there are many of these cases that my colleague will say later, normally that the minister is not guilty, there are many such cases, and those people who report to the State Inspectorate do so with a wave, the inspection does its part of the job, but unfortunately there are many of our people who do not know about their rights as consumers and he pays for it. You have the same variety of variants that the municipal company has written you some kind of service unreal, filed a lawsuit against you, and then you have to prove that you didn't do it at all, that it's not your duty at all. Therefore, because of these things and hopefully because we believe in the minister and her team, there is a lot of such situations where it must really be precisely prescribed what it is, but above all in the protection of the interests of citizens, consumers and in that part to disable this is a good variant to punish the mayors and mayors because they must, we know whose municipal companies are at the level of municipalities and cities are by the might of those units of local self-government, therefore the problem must be brought to much more attention. And now, about the law itself, we're going to have to look back at two things. The first thing is that under communal activity is now classified, meaning the undisputed transport of the deceased from the death site to the cemetery, or crematorium. But I have to remind you, at the HSP Club, as probably other clubs have addressed this carrier association, and there's one big problem that's normally not the minister's fault, it's not this government's fault. What's the problem? The problem is, by applying the law so far, it's changing, it hasn't been precise in determining whether or not I'm going to specifically point out whether or not. The sale of funeral equipment, then clothing, editing of the deceased, embalming, etc., organization of burials, printing of obituaries, contracting religious rituals, and transporting deceased persons to a special vehicle from the place of death to the cemetery or crematorium belongs to municipal affairs. There was a doubt, and what happened? It happened that it was interpreted, one interpreted in one way, the other in another way and then requested the Croatian Parliament to give authentic interpretation, a credible interpretation of Article 3(1)(11) and paragraph 12. The Law on the Communal Economy. And now the Croatian Parliament, and that was on December 13, 2002, made a decision, voted 102 MPs who are said to be not to give a credible interpretation of these provisions, but then, in the explanation of the explicit, says that these jobs mean that they are related to the equipment of the deceased, to the printing of obituaries and these other things and transportation, watch out and transport of the deceased persons by special vehicle from the place of death to the cemetery or crematorium says they do not belong to municipal affairs. And now it's objectively legal, now there's just been an even bigger struggle and now we're moving on. The competent authorities come to doubt, address the Office for the Law of the former Government, and now that Office for the Law of the former Government one gives an interpretation to the Ministry of Public Works, Reconstruction and Construction, and the other a little further to the State Inspectorate. The first says that despite the fact that the Croatian Parliament has given such reasoning that these are municipal affairs, it is meant that part of the transport of the deceased from the place of death to the crematorium or the grave, but in the State Inspectorate says that in the end, it must be asked in relation to your direct question whether the decision of the Croatian Parliament obliges the State Inspectorate to exercise control over the application of the Law on the Communist Economy of the opinion that we should not ignore the decision of the Parliament of the Republic of Croatia, but that is not said to the Ministry of Works, Reconstruction and Construction. And it continues to create an additional challenge and now means the basis of it came, the Minister and her team came into an unfortunate situation because rightly, now these have them somewhere according to what I got about 400 is those who are registered to be able to carry the deceased from the place of death to the crematorium or the cemetery, and they are now calling for all of this justifiably protesting that they will be expelled according to the change's diction, meaning Article 1 which refers to the change in paragraph 2 in paragraph 12 of Article 3 because according to this new diction everything is undeniable what the Minister said that this part of the transport of the deceased from the place of death to the burial, i.e. the cemetery or crematory now belongs to the affairs of communal activity. Therefore, in order for this to be done, there must be a concession and this thing is very simple. So, they've brought this whole thing to a rather awkward situation, and I can tell you that, normally as we rightists always do with facts, we've come to the verdicts and the Constitutional Court, and the Administrative Court in cases of solutions to the Competition Agency that say they cannot limit market freedom in that part, and so I'm afraid that if we vote on such a provision that is now being spoken of, that we will come to a major problem of disputes, the conduct of constitutionality and all that. And that's why we were invited to the amendment that we said exactly that only the exception would be that these jobs of transporting the deceased from the place of death to the cemetery, or crematorium, only in exceptional cases, if there were no family members or any violent events that would fall into the communal affairs, and that this would remain the way it was. Therefore, it is our great responsibility to resolve this properly because let's be safe, there will be disputes and decisions on the Constitutional Court and everything else. I'm saying, the minister's been put in a pretty awkward situation. I am sorry that there is no Mr. Vladimir Seks here because in the letter he is likely to be referred to, the Association of Cemetery Companies Croatia says so, and in his book Mr. Seks wrote nicely that after leaving Stara Gradiška prison, in which he was in battle for the Croatian state, he was expelled from Osijek's public utility company "Ukup" where he begged to be admitted to work. And normally that, we know, utility didn't receive it and says, now he's going to be voting for a proposal from the government to get a monopoly. I mean, it's a pretty interesting situation. Now let's go to another variant. I mean, this is a big problem. We need to think this through just for this, for the sake of interest, so that the odds don't happen if they get it. If they get constitutional dispute, and we introduce this, it will be direct damage to the state budget. Now let's get to the other thing. I agree that we at the HSP Club agree and we believe that Mrs Dropulic is taking action to resolve this issue of illegal construction. But this part first as the inherited situation is not enough. Look, we won't solve anything if we shut down, disable the water connection and disable the power connection. We're not gonna solve anything. There are other better solutions, at this point we're not ready. One of the solutions that has, say, Sweden and Austria, they have a law on the ban on self-building. Therefore, everything is not paid and everything goes according to official duty, the companies perform it and there is no possibility that the company that can do it will do it. But we're not in that situation yet. I'm saying, we have to do that part because there's not even that part of the work on black. Many other situations are gone and will not happen what a colleague from HDZ said, has a 3-story building permit, he makes 4 floors. Because when he gets a valid license, then in centimeters, whether the walls are like that, if he doesn't have to crash, he can't get a used permit. But look at the situation. I have, unfortunately, an example in Sweden, say, Tyrol. They've had this for a long time, about the ban on self-building and no more unforeseen criminal provisions. And the Bosnian came, built them a house, so even though it's forbidden to build themselves and they don't have criminal provisions now because they've been thrown out before. That's not possible for them. There's no more situation like that. Therefore, in this part, we support the ministry in an effort to make order. But I'm saying, we need to be aware that this part isn't enough. Now let me tell you, let's say a couple of cases at Rogoznica called me the friends of the defenders who built the house eight or nine years ago, now the inspector comes in and puts on a construction ban board. I mean, we know that the situation is difficult, that the inspection isn't what it is. Therefore, we support this part of the intention to really move, you will have our support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-04-0.u13653	I thank Mr Kovacevic. A representative, Mr. Cain, came forward to correct the incorrect allegations. Here you go, Mr. Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-04-0.u13654	Your Honor, Madam Vice President, Your Honor, gentlemen of the Parliament. Mr. Pero Kovacevic literally said that he was once a tobacco monopoly, as if today, Mr. Pero, he wasn't. We used to have a far more humane monopoly because it was owned by the state, and in 1991 it was made possible, made possible by this monopoly to private companies. The second false allegation refers to the repair of the waterbender, i.e. with regard to this basic payment. It is undeniable that the basis of the Law prohibits municipal water companies from charging it. However, the question arises whether it is now okay for Elektra to charge him the same without the utility charging. In order to enable state-owned enterprises to collect this review, for example, consumption and municipal enterprises owned by the city not to be allowed to do so. This should simply be modified either by all or by this municipal company also enable it to charge the basic charge because in the case of the Istrian water line from Buzet which I come from, this company loses about 3 million kuna annually. And then again...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-04-0.u13655	My colleague Cain, he was a correction to an incorrect quote, not a debate. You used the wrong institute to correct the incorrect allegations to actually get into the debate. Now, counterpart Kovacevic has reported in violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-04-0.u13656	That's right. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Mr. Cain didn't correct me, but he added more of those things I didn't say, that's true.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-04-0.u13657	I already warned him, colleague Kovacevic. Mr. Representative Tomcic came forward to correct the incorrect allegations. Here you go, Mr. Tomb.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-04-0.u13658	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I'm correcting the wrong assumption that the abolition of self-building could prevent illegal construction. Explanation. Self-building in this country is a very important institute, considering the social state of the population, so if you want some habits and some kind of identity thing. Still a large number of people in smaller areas, especially in rural areas, work so-called. I, too, would ask the Minister and her associates to continue with the next amendment to the Law on the Construction of the Institute of Self-Build, under certain control. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-04-0.u13659	Thank you. Re-injury of the Rules of Procedure, Mr Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-04-0.u13660	... Article 209(2) I said we're not ready for the situation yet, but I said there are solutions out there. [[Specially enabled.]] That Mr. Tomcic probably didn't listen very carefully.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-04-0.u13661	It wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure. It was an answer to Mr. Tomcic. We're moving on to the debate. Next is the club IDS, Mr. Walter Drandic. Here you go, Mr. Drandic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-04-0.u13662	Madam Vice President, Madam Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Here, we are again forced to sort of patch up legislation in the municipal economy, and it is obvious that the Minister said that we also need a new whole system that will regulate this highly significant but complex matter. Law in the municipal economy has seen many changes since the 1990s. The process of adapting the system of the municipal economy, private-owned social relations was initiated by the adoption of the Act of the predecessors and the organisation of companies on municipal activities and activities of settlement and space arrangements, passenger transport and urban and suburban transport and the activities of the organisation of small-scale markets and thus the conversion of those former social utility companies in 92. According to this Act, social enterprises, public undertakings and other legal persons with social capital registered for the purpose of carrying out municipal activities or the activities of the arrangement of settlements and premises, the activities of transport of passengers in urban and suburban transport, the activities of the organisation and maintenance of retail markets, the assembly and municipalities in whose territory the headquarters of the undertakings could be organised as public undertakings owned and the municipality or city of Zagreb within 60 days of the date of the entry into force of that law. Following that, all the facilities and facilities of the municipal infrastructure introduced into the social capital of social enterprises, public enterprises and other legal entities with social capital became the property of the then municipal public enterprises owned by the municipality. The law on the conversion and organisation of undertakings in municipal activities and activities of settlement, space, transport of passengers in urban, suburban transport and the activities of the organisation and maintenance of the markets for the short term shall be subject to the following provision of point 2 of Article 34(1). Law on the municipal economy with the date of application of that law, i.e. at August 8, 95. This Law on the municipal economy has been amended and complemented by the Regulation amending and supplementing the Law on the municipal economy in 95, which subsequently ceased to apply following the provision of a decision on the termination of the Regulation on amendments and amendments to the Law on the municipal economy in 96. The law was subsequently amended and supplemented by the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Community Economy of 97 and the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Common Economy of 99, which entered into force on 1 January 2000. This Act on Amendments, the Law amending the Law on Amendments, we also had this, the Law amending the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Communist Economy, amended the provision of Article 1 of Article 25 of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Communist Economy, and was then extended to the units of local self-government to comply with the provisions of that law. The Law on the Community Economy was further amended by the Law amending the Law of the same year 2001 and entered into force on 8 July that year. On 28 January 2003, on the basis of Article 33 of that Law, the Committee for the Law of the Croatian Parliament established the consolidated text of the Law on the Common Economy, published in the National Journal No 26/2003. This was just a brief chronology to see how many changes and all the changes this legislation has experienced and how much it really takes to work out a whole new system solution. It should also be pointed out that a number of other laws and sublegal acts have been adopted since the adoption of the Law on the municipal economy, to date, which regulates the question in the area of the municipal economy. So, for example, we have the Law of Cemeteries, the Law on Cemeteries, the Law on Waste, the Consumer Protection, the Law on Energy and the Law on the Gas Market. Common amendments and additions to this law indicate that it is a very complex legal area, which is likely to require the best legal solutions and with respect to the needs of practices expressed in the requirements and remarks of the units of local self-government during these procedures of the proposed amendments and addition of that law. In addition, it should be pointed out that it has often been a whole new and original legal solution, because in certain segments we have not been able to see the practice of other European countries, and this is particularly true of the process of transforming the public companies themselves. Today's proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the municipal economy brings some changes to the legal system of the communal economy in some ways, returning to certain proposed amendments and additions to some earlier solutions that we have assumed were still better than today. The amendments and additions proposed by the club are, in the opinion of the IDS Club, really the most necessary interventions in this legal text, and this refers in particular to the provision for the prohibition of accession to municipal infrastructure facilities and devices. The constructions built without an act on which it can be built shall not be connected to the municipal infrastructure as well as the buildings for which the construction inspection process is under way, which refers to the suspension of the construction or removal of buildings under special law. However, as I have already said before about the seventh, it seems to me to amend and supplement this law since it is the same in application, I repeat once again that there is a need for systematic access to the problem of legal regulation of the communal economy, and we are particularly stressing the need for a level playing field in the law, and that this legal text is also done unambiguously in order to make it easier to apply it in practice. We find it extremely important to systematically identify several of the following issues in the municipal economy. The first question is the issue of legal status and ownership of facilities and utility infrastructure devices. The law does not explicitly stipulate who owns facilities and utility infrastructure devices, so that practice is also diverse. In certain municipalities and cities, the owner of facilities and devices of municipal infrastructure are units of local self-government, and in certain companies carrying out municipal activity and owned by units of local self-government. In those cases where commercial companies carrying out municipal activities are owners of facilities and utility infrastructure devices, there is a realistic possibility that in the event of bankruptcy of the same commercial company, facilities and the utility device are subject to bankruptcy mass. In this way, it is possible to move towards the ownership of creditors and thus to lose the ability of the local self-government unit to carry out municipal activities. We at the IDS Club consider it inadmissible, since municipal services are public services, which units of local self-government are obliged to provide citizens within their own self-rule. Unfortunately, we also have an example of Velcom from Velica Gorica, a municipal company that went bankrupt, and with it a municipal infrastructure to supply drinking water. It is also not resolved whether public infrastructure facilities and devices can be used in legal traffic as means of providing money trade. Let's say a mortgage or a fiducial property. Which could lead to the loss of the same by the local self-government unit. And for that, I have an example, an example from my own work in Pula, where, for example, there's a mortgage in the cemetery. The question arises, and whether these facilities can be built through the construction rights institutes, when the local self-government unit is also not the owner. Another group of issues is the issue of establishing stronger control mechanisms for units of local self-government towards companies owned by municipal activities. The need to establish stronger control mechanisms for units of local self-government towards these companies stems from the very nature of municipal services as public services to citizens, which cannot be denied to citizens. This places great responsibility on the units of local self-government, and it would therefore be necessary for us to have those as founders in addition to the powers they have under that company in accordance with the Commercial Society Act, such as the appointment of the Director of the Supervisory Board also have some stronger mechanisms for controlling the business of these companies. For example, mandatory reporting of the representative body, material financial operations, approval of the work programme and the like. Although these issues have already been resolved by individual municipalities and cities in their general acts, their statutes. We believe that the regulation of such a legal obligation would contribute to the more successful business of these companies, and to the greater security of citizens, that they would realise their needs in this part of the circle. The third group, which we consider important, refers to the definition of the private capital participation mechanism in municipal activities. According to the Law on the municipal economy, private capital participation in the pursuit of municipal activities can be achieved. By owning a stake in a commercial company carrying out a municipal activity, the unit of local self-government must always own more than 50% of the shares. Or by awarding a concession for the issue of facilities and utility infrastructure devices, for the performance of certain municipal activities. We believe that, in order to enable private capital to be invested in this activity, opportunities should be accurately rewritten and the conditions are for the activities that citizens provide public services which cannot be denied and on the other hand are the monopolitical position of a company that has secure customers of services at all times. The promotion of private capital investment in municipal activities could resolve the construction and maintenance of municipal infrastructure without the involvement of budgetary resources, but the IDS Club needs to make precise provision of conditions and obligations. The fourth gourmet refers to the unifying of citizens on the basis of obligations, in the participation of building facilities and utility infrastructure devices. According to the Law on the municipal economy, citizens participate in money givings in the construction of objects and devices of municipal infrastructure, by paying municipal contribution to public areas, public lighting, not grading roads, and for cemeteries and crematories. And by paying the connection fee, for the facilities and appliances for drinking water supply, and the disposal of waste water. In the IDS Club, we believe that the extra administration of local self-government units would need to bring these grants together and exclude payment of accession fees in a way that participates in the construction of facilities and drinking water supply devices, and the disposal of waste water is included in the municipal contribution and such a solution has been prescribed by the Law on the municipal economy by 97. as this Law raises the responsibility for paying the municipal contribution, the investor we believe is right, we believe that through criminal provisions it is necessary to strengthen the responsibility of the units of local self-government to fulfil their obligations, to build facilities and devices of municipal infrastructure that are financed from the municipal contribution and often happens that people and pay but wait for years to arrange this municipal infrastructure. As far as this proposal is concerned, the IDS Club has a proposal for several amendments, which I hope will be adopted by the Proposer, we think they improve this Law. The IDS Club supports the intensities of this Act but asks the Government of the Republic of Croatia to propose a law that will solve the issue of the communal economy systematically as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-04-0.u13663	I thank Mr. Drandic for speaking on behalf of the IDS Club. Now it's Mr. William Herman's turn on behalf of the Club of Libre. Here you go, Mr. Herman.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-04-0.u13664	Madam Vice-President, Madam Minister, colleagues and colleagues, here are a few observations, suggestions, remarks and, of course, some changes. Amendments and additions to the law precedes the adoption of a new Law on the municipal economy, and that is, in fact, our observation, we would like to have that bill here right now that would solve the issues entirely. But the promoter here has concentrated on several areas, believing that here in these areas, there is an urgent intervention in these areas, and we understand that and we have nothing to do with it. So in the first group, there are some issues about the activities of maintaining the cemetery, the crematorium, the transport of the deceased, etc. Ours, one question and a question that actually the Proposer wanted Article 3(1), subparagraph 11, which suggests that instead of the work done, the transport of the deceased would be in place. Does that mean that it is a narrow term, or another definition, because it immediately occurs in other places of contradiction, for example? It is not clear in Article 3(3) of the 12th paragraph why the definition or clarification of the conduct of funeral work is then left, or their explanation, and in Article 3(1), subparagraph 11 is deleted again. And then should it not be left with Article 3(1), paragraph 11, and then, accordingly, leave the definition of performing funeral work or, in Article 12(2), to give the definition of the transport of the deceased. This is what a small game looks like and around just nomotechnical skill or clumsyness may look like but it can really lead to a number of ambiguities as much as the ministry team seems extremely interested in this well-intentioned warning. So is a colleague from the IDS. In addition, in this section a good intentional warning of Article 11(1) of indent 5 again stands the transport of passengers, and so in Article 12(1), the transport of passengers again stands. The deceased, the pardon, the travelers to eternal hunting grounds. Okay, I'm sorry if I might have been untasteful. Anyway, these are the remarks, they'll be at least out of the phonogram to see what I said, and I said, well, try to fix it. Therefore, the next group of these issues is the adoption of an object-building programme and the regulation of municipal infrastructure, proposing amendments to the provisions of the applicable law, and in particular Article 30(4) thereof. And we think that this provision is really more favourable, it is easier to monitor the development and implementation of the construction programme over a shorter period, thereby increasing the transparency of projects, facilitating the monitoring of realised projects from the development plan. So, we welcome that, and the one who records what I'm saying can simply put three out loudspeakers!!- I'm sorry. And now the next group of some of the issues that you're dealing with are probably the most important to the public, they also contain some tones of dramaticism, these are the issues in which you're trying as proposings to solve problems of illegal construction. It is proposed to prescribe a ban on access to the municipal infrastructure of a building built without an act on which it can be built as referred to in Article 34 and is added, paragraph 4 which is directly and suggesting it. The experience so far has been so often that, on the basis of special consent, accession has been allowed without prior authorisation. Of course, it created chaos, it created legal uncertainty and most often and certain inequality in the exercise of the right, it is not good, we welcome therefore the good intentions of the promoters. The penalty for disobeying this provision is from 5 to 10 thousand kuna, proposed by the supplement, and we think these penalties should be even more. In itself, they would be said to be that environment that fulfils the basic task, but if it is known that the penalties contain, in fact, a certain, certain degree of prevention, so warning to third parties, and especially to third ones that are very much in Croatia when it says third, one serious, dangerous social group that may have ties and with a variety of relationships, we usually comment on them as relations that belong to the area of corruption, bribes, etc. Indeed, it is worth insisting that these penalties may be, someone would say a lot more but also less said. Furthermore, it is proposed to issue an act on the basis of which it can be built with the payment of the municipal contribution and to amend the provision of Article 32(4) which proposes precisely these conditions for the issue of a building permit. The situation is now such that in the event of non-payment, the process of repealing the solution or the forced payment has been carried out. This provision would no longer be necessary if it was adopted and applied, applied, expelled by courts, the mechanism of enforcement of the collection of payments would no longer be necessary. That's what we agree on. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The proposal to amend and supplement the law questions whether, with the responsibility of the mayor or the mayor, in case the funds were collected from the communal compensation, this responsibility should be strengthened and held accountable because they are often vertical. It has to do with the co-boarding and the head of the appropriate department because if it doesn't, it can actually happen if I can make a joke, there's only a command responsibility, and the one who's the executioner won't actually file an account. But if the truth is looked into the eyes, then it should be said that these remarks are particularly in the area, that these proposals are especially in the area of lawless construction where the medicine is being sought, where some legal medicine is actually required to accept the fact that the system does not work. In particular, the system does not operate in the area of control mechanisms, and then read this about different supervisions, different inspections and what the Ministry is actually doing to make some serious things happen here. That's a lot of responsibility. The changes, the additions, warn exactly that's what they are, that illegal construction happens primarily because of system failure. There's one circumstance we'd like to warn you about. Indeed someone mentioned today Rogoznica, and several points today are happening in Croatia quite hasty, quite attractive to the public intervention of this time system, but is there really a plan about it? Is there really a relationship of full responsibility when accessing the destruction of objects? Is there a priority line? Is there actually a plan in which to end it? Or the plan is to legalize illegal construction in fact in this first encounter it must prove to be the next situation. You throw dust in your eyes, and then you actually say, "Yeah, we got something we got." It's a status quo, we're going to maintain and it's not happening again. In this area, full equality must be achieved because any sense of citizens in Rogoznica or someone third not because of the status of defender or any other status, because we are all citizens of Croatia to create a feeling that there will finally be no equality before the law and in relation to this important issue and in relation to many other issues, but now the subject is illegal construction. It must not be on either side of the feeling that it is manipulated, that it is suitable and that there are two headings of at least the same and some others. So they're like some who aren't top priority, or I don't know if there's a plan I'm talking about in principle, so there's not gonna be a crash there. The public is very sensitive to this and the public needs to get very precise information about it. Although it is only about changes and additions, it is about good intentions to make order and legal discipline in one area, but if this circumstance is not answered, then we will have really serious doubts whether only good intentions can be supported or the promoter should also be faced with such issues. If this is all so important, it is possible to think this way, Madam Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Wasn't it then necessary to create a law, a bill of law, to discuss it here that would specifically justify institutioning everything that belonged to the area of illegal construction? I know it can cause a smile, maybe something else. But if this is indeed as you say in the opening part of the bill's proposal as one of the priorities of this government. In fact, you're stressing that the government is going to fight, I don't think it's really about fighting because then define who's on the other side. It's about a responsible attitude towards an unwanted social phenomenon that sounds nice. It's about illegal construction, abuse and feeling of inequality and what to do with it. If that's the case, then I really won't say I dare, but I think I have an obligation to say that maybe it should be, maybe be a special law on illegal construction. He would then answer that if that were the issue in the government's priority regime. Or the question with which instruments are then, of course, we are struggling legally to solve this problem. I would also ask to consider the possibility of this Assembly getting regular reports of what has been done, of course, as it is said in the space for resolving the issue of illegal construction. Of course that material should be analytical. I was quoting from the opening part of your proposal. For what? Because it's this government's program. A program that must be realized through combat. So the reports, Club Libre, in this regard, will propose and I would ask for support, a conclusion which will require that the Government undertakes to submit regular reports on the situation in the space and, in fact, on the ways in which supervisory inspection services are handled. Thank you very much for the smile, for understanding and I expect you to understand and approve of what has proved to be a reason to commend you. Thank you very much, Madam Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-04-0.u13665	I thank Mr. Herman. Mrs. Matulovic-Dropulic spoke on behalf of the promoter. Here you go, Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-04-0.u13666	Madam Vice President, ladies and gentlemen, I think you should say something that afterwards we may not repeat ourselves about what everyone from, you say should, should be passed and should adopt an urgent law on, a new Law on the Communist Economy. We all agree together as Mr. Herman says that perhaps one law on illegal construction should have been proposed. You know, if we had any opportunities since we got here, one six months not to act operationally but exclusively to record the situation and make bill proposals believe that these laws would already be over. But too much work, too many problems from dumps, from illegal construction, from spatial plans. We had to do a lot of things at the same time. So we haven't, we haven't had any opportunity to propose new laws, designed laws in such a short time. I'm asking for your understanding here, and we're sure to do that part of the job by the end of the year. But let me just say something so it's the same if the brain repeats itself, about self-building. Samogradja was abolished by a law that came into force on January 1st of this section by the Law on Construction and Self-Building this hour in Croatia is not possible. If someone wants to be reintroduced in the amendments to the laws or in some new law, the possibility of self-building because it is allowed exclusively in areas of special state concern. ALL the rest of the law that was passed in the House and which came into force in 1.1 this year was actually banned. All that is said by Mr. Drandic of IDS and Mr. Pera Kovacevic clearly and by Mr. Herman will be possible, I thank these proposals and will be able to include such a thing in a further discussion and writing a new law. Because we have and we know that a lot of things are unresolved and that a lot of things are based on the laws of energy that are passed on to this law which is now in the procedure because it's just headed towards the Government, the law on changes, actually the law on heat energy that will then be able to solve it in one systematic way together. However, I think there is something to be said about the carriers and the deceased because it is obviously not clear what we have predicted. In fact, we have determined definitively that the transport of the deceased is a communal activity. One more time. And that less is no longer a communal activity than that equipment can go free market. The transport of the deceased takes place in two ways today is Croatia. It is one thing that there are utility companies, which have this activity in their composition and which for former municipalities, means for the former one municipality, and now there are more municipalities and cities, performing this activity especially for small cities that, in other ways, or small municipalities, cannot organize it. All big cities or bigger cities, for example. Zagreb because it opened a public tender and gave the concession to do all these jobs for this reason and, for example, Zagreb does not have a municipal company dealing with the transport of the deceased. We think that's good. So it's a thread that prevents local self-government units from having their own utility company, or from giving in to a cell. I can even work in a way that gives part of the business a concession and that part goes to be in utility companies. We therefore think that today, especially because of small municipalities, we are unable to fully free the transport of the deceased and should remain a communal activity. As far as punishments are concerned, they're in line with the law on violations, and only when the law is possible do I think only when the law on violations is amended then we're able to change the orderly here. And just one more thing about illegal construction. We have not set out in the territory of Croatia to destroy any object that must be legalised under the county plan. All 21 counties, meaning 20 counties and the city of Zagreb have made their own spatial plans and determined how to proceed. After that, the stable units of local self-government, cities and municipalities made their own spatial plans. I have to say that it's actually tragic that some spatial plans have been almost two years like this. It's a cranberry or something. Or Makarska. That there was a public debate and that two or three years had not been adopted. Therefore, something must be done here, and therefore we will propose I hope that for the next session of the Assembly you will mean what in 7 months, get amended and supplement the law on spatial order because obviously we have to do something about it. Therefore, it has become precisely the measures to be taken and not a single object that has been destroyed is an object that can legalise es based on a valid spatial plan of the county clearly cannot be based on it but on a low-work plan that will be made on this plan. Another possibility exists only one, and this is to change the spatial plans of the county, to determine other purposes of space, that es determines a different building area, I'm not sure that after this much trouble that should have been brought up by all the spatial plans of the county, that the countys are ready to go to change these plans. So I beg you to understand all the reasons and we said the same thing right away, I told the opening part that I think we think we should do it as soon as possible. We'll try to make it all the laws before that, but they're so tightly tied up that I think here we are, asking you to respect that it will be over by the end of the year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-04-0.u13667	Thank you very much. Club DCA HSSA is a respected representative of Mate Brletić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-04-0.u13668	Mr. President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. I believe that the bill on amendments and amendments to the law has come to the municipal economy in the right of the aury, and at least partially, if not at the foot of the bill, it will end the illegal construction. We've all witnessed the problems of illegal construction that has taken hold of her in recent years. Not only is it built without a building permit in smaller places we've seen this last thing happening to our coast. This Bahatost needs to be put to rest, the collection of a municipal contribution which is the income of the budget unit of local self-government, and is intended to finance the construction of the object of the municipal infrastructure arrangements is more than questionable, especially since payment of the municipal contribution is not subject to the construction law for the issue of a building permit. When an investor gets a building permit in most honour cases, he believes that the contribution does not have to be paid. In particular, since local self-government units find it difficult to decide the conduct of forced collection. However, by way of derogation from Article 32 of the Law, the payment of a municipal contribution, or at least the first instalment, provided that the periodical payment has been granted, has been reported by the construction law where officials on the issue of construction permits are given 30 days from the date of receipt of an orderly request for the resolution of the application. Often, solutions in the municipal contribution were met for months when payment was not a condition for the issue of a building permit. And long-term proceedings are blamed by state administration and officials for issuing a building permit. Now that this becomes a condition for issuing a building permit, what I support should be prevented from waiting even longer. I believe that it is necessary to introduce time limits by which the only local self-governments are obliged to issue an opinion on the municipal contribution, and to impose sanctions to exceed that deadline. In Article 6 of the Final Prolongation of the Law on the municipal economy, which is related to Article 30(4), which refers to the prosogram of the operation of buildings and the arrangements of the municipal infrastructure. This mentions the programme of measures on the improvement of the situation in the area I would like to point out as it is known that the right rareness is that units of local self-government have brought a spatial plan to the settlement of municipalities or cities. The question should also be asked how much will be controlled and how far it will be executed in accordance with its settings because it should not be changed according to someone’s intentions. And the question is how do we coordinate the building program, the municipal infrastructure with the old plans, and the question is, how long can it be tolerated? Article 11 relating to Article 36(1), where it is mentioned that each separate part of the building representing an independent unit must have a special device for measuring consumption, so that the apartment, personal space, garage, etc. is mentioned. When it comes to the garage, whether or not it is considered a garage next to a residential building that is normally connected to an infrastructure network of a residential building if installed, water. The DC and HSLS Club will support the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Communist Economy and will vote for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-04-0.u13669	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative Marko Širac on behalf of the HDZ Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-04-0.u13670	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. The Croatian Democratic Community club supports the adoption of this law. Now allow me to take our views and look back at the proposed solutions. The exercise of municipal activity is primarily in the jurisdiction of local self-government units and municipalities and cities. However, the development of the municipal economy in local self-government units is uneven. In large cities, a communal economy with a strong material base and quality personnel has been developed, and in most smaller units the local self-government is at a low level of development with insufficiently developed material base and lack of personnel. Public activities under the existing law are carried out as a public service. The means of carrying out these activities shall be provided by a communal fee, the collection of municipal services, part of the budget of the units of local self-government and other sources provided by specific regulations. In preparations for entry into the European Union, we will have to consider the current way of financing the maintenance of common facilities of municipal infrastructure financed by public compensation funds and decide whether to maintain existing solutions or replace it with a corresponding tax which will be the income of the units of local self-government for that purpose. Of course, there are a number of other issues that the minister mentioned here, as well as colleagues who had explained their views before me. We therefore welcome the intention of the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Spatial Planning and Construction to base a comprehensive analysis of the situation in the municipal economy and to propose a new Law on the municipal economy in the adoption process and, when so, we will then give a full account of the proposed solutions. Amendments and additions to this law propose intervention measures to prevent the illegal construction of buildings and their accession to municipal infrastructure and improve the resolution of other important issues related to the operation of units of local self-government and communal economy such as the activity of carrying out municipal services for the maintenance of cemeteries, the adoption of an object-building programme and the arrangement of municipal infrastructure, the collection of municipal contributions, the issue of acts on which the penalties for infringements against all those who do not comply with the provisions of this law can be built. In the previous implementation of the Law on the Communist Economy, there was no doubt about the provision of a municipal service to the maintenance of the cemetery and, primarily, whether the transport of the deceased from the place of death to the cemetery and burial and cremation was involved in the service. These changes have led to a misunderstanding that these jobs are included in the municipal service of the maintenance of the cemetery, all other services related to the funeral of the deceased can be freely carried out on the market. The construction of local self-government units' facilities and facilities was based on a programme of building facilities and utility infrastructures for a four-year period. These programmes have been shown to be difficult to implement over a four-year period, and therefore the building programmes and facilities of municipal infrastructure will be implemented for a one-year period and will be based on a programme of measures to improve the situation in space and development plan. The funds needed for the implementation of the building programme of buildings and utility infrastructure units of local self-government are largely secured from the municipal contribution paid by the owners of building particles on which the building is built. By paying the municipal contribution, the owner of the building particle participates in the settlement of the cost of construction of municipal facilities that ensure the necessary level of arrangement of the city space, i.e. settlements. It is often in the practice of a mustache, because paying contributions is not only paid to build municipal infrastructure directly in front of a building plot, I guess someone has to pay for public green areas, nogostas, streets, public lighting and everything that is and is not in front of its green surface, but is in a place or city or a settlement where the building is built. The obligation to pay the municipal contribution by means of a solution shall be determined by the administrative body of the local self-government unit responsible for the municipal economy. In the event that the unit of local self-government does not implement and fully resolve the obligation to build municipal infrastructure, facilities and devices provided for by the programme, it is required to return the proportionate part of the funds to the owner of the building plot. Such a solution will create certainty that the owner of the building plot will indeed be built a municipal infrastructure for which he has paid for the contribution or will be reimbursed. In current practice, building investors have avoided paying for a municipal contribution especially when they are granted a building permit. Forced collection through judicial authorities at the disposal of local self-government units, as you know, is a very long procedure, so there are great difficulties in financing and overcoming planned deadlines for building municipal infrastructure. Therefore, the issue of acts on the basis of which the building can be built shall be linked to the collection of the municipal contribution or to the payment of the first war if the contribution is paid on a flat-rate basis. We believe that this is a good and quality solution for the investor, i.e. the builder and the local self-government unit. The implementation of the law also shows that certain provisions laid down in Article 34 have not been precisely defined. Laws to which the representative body of the unit of local self-government provides the owners with the obligation to connect to the municipal infrastructure and to use the municipal cleanliness maintenance service. In the section relating to the collection and export of municipal waste. Here and this is now paragraph 3, the new paragraph 3 of Article 34 is removed and it is actually a strange situation in practice that people avoid using a kind of municipal service that is usually common everywhere in the world and has to be with us and we must do everything to ensure that this part of the activity for the mutual benefit of the unit of local self-government and citizens. Finally, some utility companies connect to the facilities and devices of the utility infrastructure illegally built buildings. Such actions encourage lawless construction. Therefore, the additions to Article 34 of the new paragraph 4 provide that constructions built without acts on which construction can be built must not be connected to the municipal infrastructure. It is also prescribed that they can be connected, they must not connect the structures for which construction or removal is pending after the construction inspection has been resolved. And there is another unresolved issue that the Minister also addressed, which is gas supply, heat energy, electricity is no longer a communal activity. Companies carrying out this activity must also be prohibited from joining illegally built buildings to their supply installations. In our opinion, the Ministry of Spatial Planning and Environmental Protection should agree and propose appropriate legal solutions, as in practice what has happened so far has happened that they have without any problem connected the illegally built facilities to their installations. The lawlessly built buildings shall be prevented from joining the municipal infrastructure by any means available, including the punishment of all participants in these illegal activities. The introduction of these prohibitions creates more favourable conditions for the introduction of order in the pursuit of municipal activity, but also for the operation of local self-government units. This will also contribute to the possibility of adequate punishment for the offence of the building investor, the municipal firm, as well as the responsible persons in the units of local self-government if they accidentally spend the funds earned under this Act. Finally, I would like to point out that the adoption of these amendments will improve the situation in the area of the municipal economy and therefore the HDZ Club supports the adoption of this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-04-0.u13671	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HNS Club, the PGS's respected representative, Alenka Kosisa Chichin-Shain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-04-0.u13672	I thank you, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, dear colleagues and fellow MPs, Madam Minister, Secretary of State. We are ahead of us in an urgent process of amending and supplementing the Law on the Communist Economy. What is the basic problem that requires such urgent action? Certainly the illegal construction that this society has been facing for more than 20 years and with a number of palitative measures so far, we have not achieved a significant shift in the plan to combat this phenomenon. And it's actually about a fundamental disregard for legality at all. Various measures were mostly restrictive, and with other means, they always tried to stop and prevent illegal construction. Most of the time, it has not been successful since the state administration's position has not changed positively towards the builder and investor because the adoption of new laws and sublaws and regulations have not been reduced and simplified but has been on the contrary complicated and accumulated by the force of evidence that, in bureaucracy, it is usually the purpose itself because it has not been developed and adopted for years by the spatial plans of the accompanying urban regulations from which urban building conditions could undoubtedly be read. Because this situation created the circumstances of discretionary decision-making and still corresponded to the local administrative pyramid from top to bottom. I'm going to allow myself the freedom to take a flat-rate view that local administration units have silently supported illegal construction because this has increased construction areas at the expense of greenery. The land price was increasing, and when the scales were increased enough, depending on the legislation, the regulated spaces were legalised and thus came to some local community. For example, the million-year City of Zagreb has not adopted a new general urban plan for 17 years but used the 86th plan by 8 August 2003, including some changes and additions. The spacious plan of the City of Zagreb was also adopted long ago in 86 to bring the new plan only in 2001. Meanwhile there was a war, large population migrations took place, wild suburban settlements were tolerated in an emergency of war destruction. Unfortunately, many companies went into bankruptcy through unfortunate privatisation of many industries, and the City of Zagreb continued to run its spatial policy based on old plans. Legislative, and even less its mutual consistency did not go to the hands of potential builders, civil unkindness, professional inertness often based on the fact that the national administration's referents in charge of issuing basic documents for construction do not have a single day of their own practice achieved in designing or building work for the whole century already spent their entire lives reviewing documentation and issuing permits that ultimately become their own purpose. Incompatibility in the long-term process of solving building permits, all of these are the causes of illegal construction. The public administration must finally become the service of citizens, not citizens of the victim of the administration. Ladies and gentlemen, in anticipation of the announced new Law on the Communist Economy with the possibility and personal suggestion that it amends the Law on Public Institutions, we of the HNS and PGS Club as people of practice fully understand the pragmaticity and effectiveness of the proposal to ban the connection of buildings to supply networks when investors did not get a building permit, although I would like to point out that this measure will not be stopped, nor will it stop illegal construction because it has already been in force once and has achieved nothing. Moreover, in recent times, we have often witnessed illegal mergers to the electrical network and sewerage system or the construction of an independent water supply, thus avoiding the payment of services or energy. Furthermore, what about those settlements that were built and cannot be legalized because they are not in accordance with other laws and regulations? Even if this is in the jurisdiction of local administration, for example, by means of a spatial plan of a second purpose zone, it can change decisions or plans in its frameworks, but what if this construction is contrary to the legislation. For example. The construction law. Does this mean that these people and these citizens are condemned to be citizens of second row with houses and connections of an impermeable septic pit and water that they provide with hydrophorics in the immediate vicinity? An example of Roma settlements or parts of the million city of Zagreb or villages built in the 1970s which we want to connect to the infrastructure today. We at the HNS Club, the PGS in this as well as in other cases do not plead decisions that are made as a palitative solution, i.e. a substitute for non-functioning of the legal system of the state because exactly the judicial system is what we stand for and we think it is necessary to function. Neither is the proposal relating to the payment of the municipal contribution, i.e. the first payment of the municipal contribution, and before the issue of the building permit. It is unclear why the proposer proposes this because there is now a solution to the settlement of the costs of the municipal contribution that the investor must respect. It is true that in practice, in some local administration units, this means up to 60% of the municipal contribution to paid complaints. However, after a larger number of years and high costs. However, we put the builders in an unequal position if we leave the decision on paying the municipal contribution to the wars to discretionary decision-making. And yet the payment of the first war except perhaps faster and at least in a small segment of the secure charge budget there is no guarantee of the payment of the remaining wars. So we're gonna have to go to court again, we're gonna have to sue again. Therefore, units of local administration are required to monitor and manage payment controls from all builders. This proposal is just another example of mistrust in the functioning of the rule of law. Let's not keep winding up some surrogate short-winded solutions. We're changing the causes. Let's be last and principled. A few words about the amendment relating to the Law in the work where the maintenance of the cemetery is defined. We support the amendment of the Law in a work where the term and maintenance of cemeteries and crematories are defined in more detail, including the burial and cremation of the deceased. But we don't support an unreserved proposal to transport the deceased as regards the takeover and transport of the deceased from the death site to the morgue or the cemetery crematorium to be the communal activity that the local administration unit puts in the concession. In order to carry out this activity on the free market today, there is otherwise great chaos, but also great interest. Of course, only in big cities. While there is no interest in carrying out these activities in small remote mountain settlements or remote islands. In some of our cities such as Split, Pula, Rijeka or Samobor, funeral services, including transport are organised at the level of local administrations in a way that is monopolized by urban utility companies. cca 36 concessions have been awarded in the city of Zagreb since last summer, while this service has been on the free market until then. In some other parts of the country, the transport of the deceased is exclusively on the free market. For the most part, this variety of approaches came from an insufficiently defined concept of cemeteries referred to in Article 11(1) indent 8. The Law on the Communal Economy. We therefore propose, given the current chaos, that this Law on the Communist Economy, which has been announced for the end of the year, explores the possibility of introducing order and carrying out this activity from the regulatory framework, regulates the implementation of this job on a dignified level. Something about gas and electricity. Since gas and thermal energy supply is no longer a communal activity, the first question is raised, who owns the City gas station for example in Zagreb or communals in Konjščina or Krakom in Krapina and a number of others including, for example, a heat plant that is not part of HEP? The compensation under Article 26 of the so far-called Law on the municipal economy for gas and heat supply was the income of cities and municipalities based on a programme of construction of buildings and arrangements of municipal infrastructure to ensure the performance of supply networks to which citizens, buildings joined. There is no indication who determines the gas and heat supply fee and whether the height can be the maximum average monthly gross salary in the Republic of Croatia, because we are witnessing that the Zagreb water line is breaking through that regulation? For example, whether gas undertakings as well as electricity will continue to have the right to use the installation from the main home connection to the specific part of the building without including the cost of connection, and that the performance of these installations can only be carried out by the selected reputed companies at significantly higher unit prices than the installer of the facility or flats. Are gas and water connections prices included in this proposal and consumption registration numbers? What about the obligation to build a DTK network for telephony, as determined by its value and is this a communal activity? Why is electricity consumption for public lighting included in the communal fee, and its delivery is not a communal activity? Analoglyze also applies to gas in the town of Zagreb on the Upper City. In subsequent amendments to the law, it is necessary to lay down criteria and obligations for gas and heat suppliers such as HEP so that investors can know the conditions for supplying those energy products. We support the proposal for a one-year programme of building facilities and utility infrastructure devices. It is necessary to align it with the programme of measures to improve the situation in space and the development plan of a local administration unit. The payment of the municipal contribution and the proceeds should be managed, and cities and municipalities should not access the execution of works without these payments, or at least if credit assets are not secured. We also support the introduction of the obligation to use the municipal cleanliness service in parts relating to the collection and ratio of municipal waste. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the The law covers the collection of municipal waste. And it's not about other important activities. This is probably because municipal waste often appears on public surfaces, so it represents a very visible aspect of municipal order or disorder. The draining of the precipitation water is equally a significant order of the communal order, especially in the ceporal discharge systems. For this reason, we welcome the specific decisions of the representative body governing each area, as well as the obligation to join and use. However, we propose that the method of accounting be adapted to the standards of the European Union, i.e. that instead of the number of household members or squares, we do the bidding on the waste supply. And with another note, a note or a college suggestion. That in the new Law on the Communist Economy, there is certainly a legal process to address the subject of the obligation of a cemetery for pets. It's a matter of level of consciousness and civilization. So much on behalf of the Croatian People's Party and the PGS, pending a more high-quality new law and or a package of laws that will be united and fully covered for the first time by the whole building problem. Here we think of the Construction Act, the Law on Spatial Planning, Land, Communality, so everything that hurts every builder. We from the Croatian People's Party and the Primorje-Goran Alliance support the amendments and additions of this law with these remarks.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-04-0.u13673	Thank you very much. Minister Marina Matulović-Dropulic. Here you go. And I'm sorry, I'm sorry. The Honorable representative Damir Cain has a correction to the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-04-0.u13674	Your Honor, Mr. President, gentlemen of the Parliament. Mrs. Chichin-Shain has literally hardened it. "The local community supported illegal construction." I think it's just not true. Maybe a colleague I mean, I don't know about the spatial politics of the city of Zagreb, but I'm saying that just can't be the rule, that's the exception, not the rule. The local community is not the one who supports illegal construction, just the opposite. If someone means they tolerated illegal construction by their inaction, then they're state bodies, not local self-government bodies. Because the condition of the arrangement of the space is issued by a state body, does not betray local self-government. The building permit is issued by a state body, not local self-government. The inspection is carried out by a state body, not local self-government. Therefore, one such claim in my deep conviction simply cannot stand.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-04-0.u13675	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-04-0.u13676	Mr. President, I ask you to give me an interpretation of the Rules of Procedure in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-04-0.u13677	Thank you very much. Yesterday there was a completely different situation of different contradictory proposals for correcting incorrect allegations, club sessions, before correcting incorrect allegations, so the various mutually conflicted proposals were business, that's another situation. It's a different situation. Yeah, yeah. [[You can't hear the incursion from the bench.]] Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-04-0.u13678	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, I thank Mrs. Chichin-Shain, for all the remarks and for the proposals for the new Law on the Communist Economy, but I am really sorry to have to say that for four years we have been waiting for the new Law on the Communist Economy and that this is the same ministry where the Minister's Assistant could peacefully propose a new law with all this stuff. Besides, there's one more thing. The same ministry agreed on both the Energy Act and the Gas Market Act and found that there were no objections. So very few months have passed, and now suddenly there are such big remarks. Therefore, this existing chaos we are now trying to correct as you said and I claim that there is no such thing as chaos. He's got it, he's got a little bit of a problem, but we're gonna do it all. As far as the general plan of the city of Zagreb is concerned. Mrs. Chichin-Shain, you and I can discuss it very much one day. But general plans go out in the world for 20 years and more, and they don't change every bit. We had to change it three times but Zagreb always had a general urban plan and has it today but much worse than it had until 99. As far as this is concerned, your commission in the city of Zagreb, which is now working. In addition, today as far as the central part of the city as the ministry is concerned, we would have to cancel that part of the plan because you have determined a construction coefficient less than the existing houses in the city of Zagreb. But I don't want to talk about it anymore. As for the responsibility of the local self-government units, Mr. Cain, local self-government is very responsible for the illegal construction. I spoke earlier, but you weren't here. What were the units of local self-government issuing, which are the confirmations? Confirmation will be put into the plan. It's never been put into the plan. The plans are over for two and three years, not adopted. And they were at a public hearing. After that, they took money for a municipal contribution even though they never got a building permit and probably won't get it. I must say that this does not happen in the northern counties and in the northern cities that we have the most problems in Dalmatia and therefore we will help these people to come to the necessary solutions.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-04-0.u13679	Correction of the incorrect allegation by the respected representative Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-04-0.u13680	Well, I would like to correct Mrs. Minister's incorrect claim that the local self-government is responsible for the unlawful construction of the conditions of compliance with the building permit is being established by the state and the inspection is in the hands of the state. Therefore, the state could prevent any illegal construction when the first shovel was buried and not now when it joins the municipal infrastructure. The fact that a chief or not knows who gave some kind of need is what he needs to answer for, and that doesn't mean that there was an illegal construction. Irregular construction should be prevented at the outset.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-04-0.u13681	Well, that's exactly what you are, the minister said that it wasn't in northern parts of Croatia that it was in some other works and that it was in some cases where certificates were issued to the builders. Minister, please be my guest.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-04-0.u13682	Let me just say, the spatial plans that weren't adopted bring in units of local self-government, according to the Constitution, are in charge of it. So, if the spatial plan hasn't been brought in for so many years and it's even made, then I really don't see how they're not responsible for it. And besides, the state administration never matched a building permit with a county plan or ever did that. Based on the county... A spatial plan should be drawn up and no construction permit can be issued on the basis of the county plan. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-04-0.u13683	He's a colleague of Mršić's.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-04-0.u13684	But illegal construction is not prevented by making spatial plans but by preventing the Constitution, so please let me know something about it, let me. So, illegal construction stops in a way that anyone who builds without a building permit is prevented from getting a board of state's building inspectors where they're going to write that it's stopping construction. Where there is no spatial plan no building permit, a state inspector should put that board, it has nothing to do with spatial plans.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-04-0.u13685	Okay, let's go, these are clearly differences in views now. On behalf of the SDP Club, a respected representative of the Nenad Trail.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-04-0.u13686	Dear Mr. President, Your Honor, Madam Minister, colleagues and colleagues. In the light of the urgent procedure of this law, the applicant states that an emergency procedure is proposed for the purpose of preventing further illegal construction. And then what does he offer to prevent further illegal construction? It offers a solution that buildings built without a building permit cannot be connected to the municipal infrastructure. Today only June 4th, this law will enter into force today on the 8th day following its publication in the National Journal. It's going to mean 12 and 13 and 14, 15 June. Under the transitional and final provisions of the local self-government unit, they have 3 months to comply with their general acts under this law. It'll be mid-September. And in light of this law, the government says it has plans to pass a new law by the end of the year. It means that by the end of the year, a new law has already been passed in this House. And now the local self-government units will be in line for three months with this, with this provision, and then in three months, they'll be back in line with the new law. With this, it might also be acceptable that the solution offered by this law is revolutionary and rescue and will prevent illegal construction. Because illegal construction is a problem. A huge problem in the Republic of Croatia that has not been since yesterday, not since the day before yesterday, it has been going on for years, fighting it equally for years, equally unsuccessfully. There is no real cure, no one has invented it in Croatia to prevent illegal construction. Where's the illegal construction going on? In areas where construction is allowed at all, meaning in the building zone or outside the building zone, one and the other is the possibility, if it is outside the building zone, there is no municipal infrastructure there, so it is impossible to connect such a building to some kind of municipal infrastructure. It's just not there, there's no sewers, there's no nature park, there's no kind of construction. Therefore, this provision will not prevent such construction of an illegal, outside the construction zone. It can certainly be built in the construction zone. And two ways again. In a way that is built without any building permit or built over a building permit. So someone gets a building permit for the one-story, and they make a three-story. He's got a building permit, he's got a building permit, all he's done is build a building that doesn't comply with that building permit. For example, this proposal does not say. What about such objects? It says you can't connect to the communal infrastructure one that's without a building permit. All right. What about the one that's not in line with the building permit, and yet it's an illegal construction, and it's an illegal construction when someone raises a floor, two more over this permit they have, through a gauge that they have a license for. That means this law won't be possible. I mean, things get a little blurry around here, a little chasey, trying to transfer some of the responsibility to local self-government units for illegal construction. I believe in good faith. Madam Minister, I really believe in good faith. You are a person who is undoubtedly an expert in this area and certainly have good intentions to resolve the issue of illegal construction, but by transferring part of responsibility to a local self-government unit we will not achieve it. Look at everything about building other than making spatial plans, everything about building is in the hands of the state. According to this authorisation, they are issued in the offices of the state administration and construction inspection, supervision and ultimately the removal of illegally built buildings. It's all in the hands of the state. Could we possibly solve the problem by making a copernicus turn when it didn't work out like this? And it hasn't been going for years. And it doesn't go to any government, it doesn't go to any government. Governments change. But no problem can be solved effectively. Perhaps if we were to transfer the entire segment to local self-government units and issue building permits and control of the construction and disposal of buildings with certain means to transfer them from the central budget for these jobs. But it might be easier to conduct surveillance to those who are in space. Those who are on the ground, who are close to this illegal construction than the state who has to respond to applications if the applications come and who must ultimately respond to the territory of the whole country, which question whether there are enough inspectors, which question can effectively intervene to prevent this illegal construction from happening at the very beginning and which may not be their own fault, not because it would not want to, but because of these objective circumstances ineffective. And as we can see, each one is inefficient. And the problem grows like yeast. And I'm afraid we won't be able to get rid of it easily unless we can access the whole problem radically differently. Therefore, this article of the law certainly cannot be a great excuse for urgency. It won't help but it won't help because it's not a problem if someone, whether an illegal object has joined the municipal infrastructure. The problem is why did he even build an illegal building if he did, an illegal object? Well, there's the problem. There's a problem. The object was connected in the space, not connected. He's there as an improperly built object. So this, the problem of illegal construction, as it says in the reasoning of the bill, will not work out. It's too weak a tool. It's too weak a problem size tool. The other thing that's also being talked about here is the transport of the deceased as a communal activity. Well, first of all, we think it's kind of offensive. You know, the deceased are coming now, their transport comes as a communal activity along with maintaining cleanliness and disposal of municipal waste. You know, according to that problem, you should first approach a little bit, with a little bit more dignity. Second, you should also drink to the dead. Secondly, it should be established that there really are people on the market who have invested in these cars, forgons for the transport of the deceased means that they pay for certain economic activities. If that is how the minister said they would be able to deal with it further, there is no change in the regime for them. That there are no changes to the regime then we have solved a part of the problem. 'Cause it certainly wouldn't be good if those people were out of a job tomorrow. What are they gonna do? And what about their investment so far? If, if they stay in business then part of the problem is solved. But it remains this second, to call it communal activity. Be careful, in the last session of the Parliament, we gave an interpretation of where we just said it was not a communal activity. That should be settled well, and well now in this law that, by emergency procedure, I don't know, maybe there's some kind of smart amendment in that sense that can be accepted. But certainly when it comes to the adoption of a new law to find a happier solution that would first be for those who are in business to remain in business, that no private initiative and entrepreneurship is prevented, that no monopoly is introduced on which units of local self-government would be entitled through the establishment of their own utility companies because you are careful now that, if the unit of local self-government can, and already there are people on the market who are dealing with it, and it's starting a municipal enterprise tomorrow, and it's taking everyone's job away from them. And he says, "Look, it's under the new Law on Community Activity. We have the right to do that." And you? Come on, get on with it. You're dealing with something else. Sell those cars to whom? Buy the trucks, drive the gravel. What can we do for you? 'Cause look out there's this private guy in a really bad position. Every unit of local self-government is stronger than him. She's starting a utility company whenever she wants and taking his job he's actually doing. That wouldn't be good. Therefore, in the new law, Madam Minister, we make sure that we do not damage these people by giving monopoly to local self-government units and taking care of the deceased's piety. Let's find a more skillful solution so the dead don't fall out of communal waste. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-04-0.u13687	Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative Marijan Bekavac.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-04-0.u13688	Thank you, Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues, Col. Stazic said this provision would not prevent illegal construction. Well, the former government has just abolished the provision that buildings without a building permit cannot be connected to the municipal infrastructure, thus further inciting illegal construction.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-04-0.u13689	Correction of the incorrect allegation by the respected representative Ivanka Roksandić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-04-0.u13690	What's wrong with you? I didn't ask, but I can... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-04-0.u13691	Oh, no, no. It's like this. Mirjana Brnadić, I apologize.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-04-0.u13692	I thank Mr. President, he said it's not a problem if the facility was collected on an infrastructure a lawless object, but rather a lawless object. On the contrary, it is a huge problem. Because the reason why this measure is introduced is because it is a preventive measure that one who is a potential lawless builder must know in advance can get a connection to water and electricity, which is essential for him to use that object dfa could live in it. So this measure is a basic preventive measure to warn people that they really cannot build where they are not allowed to build, and they will not get a water and electricity connection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-04-0.u13693	And the esteemed representative of Jure Bitunjac corrects the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-04-0.u13694	Mr. Stazic said transporting the deceased is not a communal activity. I would say that the transport of the dead suigeneris means by its nature by its own nature, not only with us but otherwise with municipal activity, and they will give one company, whether it's a communal or a drive in some small unit of local self-government work, that's another thing. So more subjects can be apologized, don't throw it at me. More entities of companies, private companies, may be included but through concession.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-04-0.u13695	Dear Representative Joseph Leco is now in debate. I again appeal to MPs to be summed up if you can put it that way.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-04-0.u13696	Thank you very much, Mr. President, colleagues and fellow Minister of Honor. This law has seven reasons or nine reasons to see exactly, seven reasons why it is changing and supplementing. And of those seven, I think two are highlighted in the debate, it's the first to define the notion of communal djallnets and the fourth to prescribe a ban on joining the municipal infrastructure of the castle without being built without an act on which it was built. That's exactly what I want to say. I think we in the House have been acting like this, life goes by road and the state goes by forest. The state doesn't care what life is. Why I think so. I'll start with the disqualification of the last government to enable illegal construction because it allowed the ethod of illegally built objects to join the municipal infrastructure. And imagine sin I accept it with pleasure. That the state, which represents the state, represents this Parliament, has prepared spatial and urban plans, and has prepared building particles and made it possible for those whose lives they find necessary to build so that I can distinguish the residential houses from the objects that are for commercial needs. That they have to build a roof over their heads and it's not expensive it's from exposure to all of you famous. AD we do not have spatial and urban plans everywhere, and in particular we do not have to offer building plots that are laundered by the utility infrastructure. really I accept d abudeo so socially illuminating again because life will force us to do so and it happens often in the city of Zagreb and cities even, we go to take pictures of ourselves as politicians taking pictures where I join the communal infrastructure to turrets even to tents. Even the tents. So let's not think that we're going to stop the life and needs of building a family house or an accommodation one if we're going to ban the robbers with five children from making fun of a fairy tale, and we're still going to ban it from water and waisting or not giving God, the sewers if I have it on that plot. Well, that's not possible, but it's an attractive transfer to local self-government. On that day, if the connection to those who had to build the rye, the grain made them do it, if you do not at the local level, turn off the electricity, and let them stay in the facility. Is that what we want? And we have scissors and skirts. Can we make protson plans, and according to the Constitution, we're mandatory. Urbanist plans and that's mandatory. Even if local self-government wanted to build a spatial plan and urbanist plan and reach building particles somewhere, the plots couldn't because the state hadn't prepared, say, cadastrian bases and land books. And that's what we know, Madam Minister, from last term, that's what you claimed when we failed to pass a law on spatial planning. And you've worked really hard on it. I know you know it well, but I remember well that you claimed it. Therefore, let us not make it easy to take action and transfer responsibility to local self-government units to solve the problem that life imposes. And the state is not fulfilling its obligation. Of course, I don't encourage illegal construction and, of course, it's necessary to disable illegal construction and I don't think it's possible just by extracting electricity and power. That's not what I mean. And of course you shouldn't stand he'll give, but you all know there'll be an emergency when you say this is what you should give. Five kids, no power, no water. That's why we're really going and the experts know it gradually. One time gradually. Let's get a regulation on how long the plan for the building area has to be put in place, so let's bring in the urban spatial plan, and we'll get a deadline. And there's one more thing I want to point out is that there's really a difference between the castles that are family houses, out of necessity, and those that are built for commercial use, so to speak, they're making money on the state's impeccableness. Of course, there is no excuse, and here I support any authority of any government to bring down whether it is based or not. So using the mess for a personal breakthrough isn't allowed. And that's what we've done with cases, and I support it. When it comes to the notion of communal detail, I don't know if there are international conventions that define what it is to be a communal activity. I don't think there is. There is no international convention that determines what a municipal activity is, so it is a consensus for us here to determine what all municipal activity is. I cannot agree which not only known from the practical so-called reality in the country that there are cities and municipalities that founded their own companies communo and only allowed it to have the right to transport dead, dead and what is already called. And we're a culture of the deceased, so go to the cemetery and you'll see how the deceased is respected here. They're better arranged graves than houses. They're often more expensive. Now we're gonna figure out who's gonna put someone dead in what they're gonna do and how they're gonna get him to the cemetery. And that's what we're saying is that it's "communal" and I can't be simple, but please nice, let's set out the criteria for who can deal with this activity and let's control that activity. She has often not said I would, irrational behavior and someone won't drive someone out of his house and take him to a place where it's normal. Someone won't. Life circumstances are like this, and I don't want someone who's out of communal activity to come after my deceased, especially in small places. There are other problems. Life creates a variety of events, so someone has to pick up a dead man in Germany. He's more expensive if we have to pay that concession. It's more expensive, plus I don't want it. The next reason is and which fellow Stazic spoke on behalf of the club, we have the current situation for people to deal with this activity. If we move to, say, Zagreb, there are no problems, but there are other places and you know that we have had complaints as well as the Ministry and the Parliament and committees that are not respected, so the activity is given to only one, and that is neither the purpose nor the government nor this law. So, when we call on it to leave it as if it were just going to be regulated in cities and municipalities and places, I assure you that it's not in practice then it's always pretending to be a business of the city and the municipalities and everyone else is slowly dying, and then it's really pretending to be something that's not worthy of the culture of the deceased, so it can really be called community activity, but I disagree. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-04-0.u13697	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the respected representative Markovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-04-0.u13698	Mr. President, here's all I wanted to say. That it is indeed an incorrect quote, and it is not nice to speak in fact the state defends the poor are joining the municipal infrastructure. We're instigating anarchy that way again. We in municipalities and cities really recognize the poor, help them, pay even connections to the municipal infrastructure, release from the building permit and worry about it, but this will create new settlements lawless under the orphanage. Look at these poor settlements, and you'll see that there are very few poor houses, very few of them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-04-0.u13699	Honored representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-04-0.u13700	Mr. President, the Honorable Madam Minister with associates, colleagues and colleagues. It seems that in this proposal, the most important thing in the law is to incentivise exactly the setting up of this, namely the ban on joining the municipal infrastructure of a building built without an act on which it can be built at all, but also that the transport of dead persons is now strictly defined as a communal activity. I think it caused the most controversy in the public as well. But today we are, and this is one of the measures that requires the ban on joining the municipal infrastructure that the state wants to fight against illegal construction. And yet there's basically nothing to object to. We have also been making up today about another law that also speaks about this, which is illegal construction in particularly protected areas. But we need to remember here this occasion that it was a long time ago, but it was a protection of social property, so we thought then since it's socially there's no need for the state to protect it, because then it's nothing. There was also a crime of possession of state, social property at all, let alone construction. But what's this about? However, this is only about the consequences and therefore one serious concern and the measure would be that we got all this in the package together with everything we talked about earlier, and this is not only the law on construction but also the necessity and the obligations of both the general and the spatial and urban plans, but equally... /Conversary excluded, and re-enabled./... and with detailed plans. So just all those measures that would make it impossible for this to happen, and if it did happen by accident then these extreme measures would also, so if the object is already there to react in this way. However, if this does not occur, and we see that these are one broad proposal, ultimately there should be not only a political will but a general consensus because people must live somewhere and then if they fail or in any segment that the unit of local self-government which is not, it has this good part and the minister is right, they are not innocent, but also the state is still and is always responsible. Why? Because more has been given her, she has more powers then she has more responsibility by nature of things, but that's exactly where this surveillance mechanism that has a state and the units of local self-government should sharpen those things. But so today we've been discussing an illegal object is here and what now? Criminal law provides for a prison sentence. So the lawless builder goes to jail and returns, but remains an object. It won't connect here, but it remains an object. So all of these are, are the necessary measures, but it would be good not just now for this, but usually when we discuss one problem that if we want to solve it systematically in the root, we want to think about it internally and inter-resorically, what in a particular domain to solve this problem, in order to solve the whole problem. Because then, indeed, these discussions that are often heard in the Parliament sometimes when that is not the way it is thought and generally is not thought, then whether that measure will solve it, it does not contribute to anything. There's no way to make a partial contribution, but if that's all it is then it's really not going to get rid of it again, and in that sense I'd like to plead that way and soon when we get this brand-new Law on the municipal economy, but then be in a package with everything that doesn't even happen at all. However, on this occasion I would point out that units of local self-government are therefore prohibited from giving these municipal connections, but here is the mention of the Energy Act. It's something that's not communal activity, but then it would be quite odd that it can't be connected to the plumbing, but that it can get electrical energy. So perhaps we should have discussed this law today if we are already going on purpose as far as solving this problem is concerned. So there's a lot of skepticism to local self-government units, but when transporting dead people, the deceased is given unreserved support. I don't think this is a good solution. It is not a good solution for the families of the deceased, it is not a good solution or even for local self-government units, and it is not a good solution for those who deal with this. Mostly in the world everywhere it is placed on the free market and indeed the transport of the deceased to us is not all the same as how it will be done. And if there's anything certain that we're going to meet in that situation, then it's certain we'll need exactly this kind of service. There was a lot of appeal from the undertakers' association, of course, that they defend their position, but we must look not only at them, but also at their position to wipe out their activity and their families in such a position as they say that if they can survive and want to survive at all they can, or they must switch to some other activity, and those who consciously carried out these activities, and certainly had more interference and passed on to the market, that they must have invested a lot. And that's why I think this solution is that if it is already so that there are no legitimate reasons again and that units of local self-government are excluded from this activity, but that it certainly imposes an obligation not only on the possibility that units of local self-government can be put into concession. Because it's usually there, as a rule where I can meet those needs and interests they won't give in the concession and... And in such an almost direct way, they will have a monopoly position, and we must recognize both in all the activities and in all these regulations how to jump into it and to minimise to a maximum any direct or indirect monopoly position on the market. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And that's why I'm pleading on the Proposer, if there's still time to respond like this because these people are really going to get into one difficult situation, but once again I'm saying it's not just about them, it's about the same thing as the user. It is not good that we have now only partially complied with this requirement and then there is the equipment of the deceased going to the market, but not the transport. You need to look at the whole situation. It's hard times for family. It cannot be hired now, so a private company will seek either a natural person who deals with the equipment of the deceased, and then, in another place, will seek transportation, or call someone from a local self-government unit, or a utility company unless that unit of local self-government has put its activity in a concession. So we're going after the state to go through its administration, but we're also finding a solution to units of local self-government, which is why they exist to be in the service of citizens, not to make their lives worse in these most difficult moments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-04-0.u13701	Thank you very much, colleague. We have one correction to an incorrect quote. Representative Marija Brnadić, please. Mirjana, wrong. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-04-0.u13702	Thank you very much, Mirjana. Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. counterpart Anticevic-Marinovic made an incorrect assumption that, says the lawless builder will be punished by a prison sentence and when he gets out of prison, the facility remains. Or he doesn't get a water and electricity connection, and the facility stays. On the contrary, it is incorrect, it is true that the conduct of the administrative procedure of the facility is one particular part where the facility will be destroyed because it was built without law, and of course the order of administrative proceedings will also impose the penalties laid down for it, for that offence or for that offence. Thank you. Thank you very much, Mirjana. Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. counterpart Anticevic-Marinovic made an incorrect assumption that, says the lawless builder will be punished by a prison sentence and when he gets out of prison, the facility remains. Or he doesn't get a water and electricity connection, and the facility stays. On the contrary, it is incorrect, it is true that the conduct of the administrative procedure of the facility is one particular part where the facility will be destroyed because it was built without law, and of course the order of administrative proceedings will also impose the penalties laid down for it, for that offence or for that offence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-04-0.u13704	Thank you very much. I suggest we don't throw it out of the bench. There are mechanisms prescribed by the Rules of Procedure. For the word of the Minister, too. Here you go, Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-04-0.u13705	Madam Vice President, ladies and gentlemen, I still need to say something about doing these funeral jobs. In fact, transport was also a communal activity until today and remains today. So nothing changes. Thus, people who have begun to organize such a job are in exactly the same situation with this Law as with the past. We're the only ones out of the funeral home, so as communal jobs, we took out that equipment. Their position, therefore, is today such as to open a concession tender and to win the more favourable concession. It's exactly the same as people who do construction. And they're free on the market, but when something is organised by a state or a unit of local self-government, it calls for a competition and the one most favourable to that job gets. And therefore, the builders are in exactly the same situation as they are. So there's only one thing, the only thing that's left is that the units of local self-government that don't go to the concession even though they can, they can make any decision you want. In addition, the Law, the Constitution also said that municipal affairs are of interest to local self-government units. Therefore, we do not change anything that is not already in the Law today. And in no worse position will these people be than they were yesterday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-04-0.u13706	Thank you very much. We have corrections to incorrect allegations. First responder, Dragutin Lesar. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-04-0.u13707	Thank you very much. I'm correcting the Minister's allegations that transporting the deceased has been a communal activity so far. On 13 December 2002, a decision of the Croatian Parliament was published in the "National Journal" on the request to interpret the existing Law on the municipal economy, because of the different interpretations of the provisions at that time and at this time of validity, the Assembly refused to interpret or give authentic or credible interpretation, deeming that the provision of the Law is clear, that operations in connection with the funeral or cremation carried out outside the territory of the cemetery or crematorium, such as taking over, transfer of the deceased, preparation of the deceased for burial or cremation and the transport of exclusively commercial activity which is not subject to concessions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-04-0.u13708	Thank you very much. We have another correction to the incorrect assumption. Representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-04-0.u13709	So the same correction in this sense. In fact, if that were what the Minister said even though she had inherited it, then she would not even change this subparagraph 2 in Article 12(3). And we have a decision and a Constitutional Court that refutes the same thing, and in accordance with Parliament's decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-04-0.u13710	Thank you very much. The Minister shall have the right to reply on behalf of the Proposer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-04-0.u13711	Madam Vice President, I wouldn't go in there to see why the Parliament gave an explanation. Because the interpretation, in the interpretation, he wrote that he did not give an interpretation. Loud and clear, no authentic interpretation is given. And now I'm going to read you an old law that's been worth it so far and it's still worth it. "Communal activities are:", so it writes loud and clear, "under point 11, the maintenance of cemeteries and crematories, and the performance of funeral jobs". It reads: "The funeral work understands the takeover, equipment and transfer of the deceased person to the place of burial or cremation.". Therefore, it is an undisputed communal business. And I was and I stayed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-04-0.u13712	Thank you very much. Can we move on with the debate? I'm sorry, I don't see any plates except my hand. And he stole it? [[And someone stole my license plate.]] I'll wait for someone to lend it to you. Here's your colleague Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-04-0.u13713	Look, that's what he was in and...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-04-0.u13714	But what? What?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-04-0.u13715	Correction of the incorrect assumption that this was, that these were municipal affairs. It wasn't communal business. We have a decision, no. Because he was always too prone to take that ride. What kind of transport do you mean? Is it a transport when it's already brought to the crematorium still or is it a transport on this, right? No, no. I ask you nicely, take the decision of the Constitutional Court of Croatia, take the interpretation of the Croatian Parliament. Unfortunately, it has, it has produced legal effects. That's what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-04-0.u13716	Thank you very much, colleague. Let's move on with the debate. An individual debate. Dear Representative Dragutin Lesar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-04-0.u13717	Thank you very much. I agree with Ms. Minister that local self-government also carries part of the responsibility for illegal construction in the Republic of Croatia, but only part and less, if we compare that responsibility with the responsibility of the state. If it is true that by the end of the year we will be discussing and adopting a brand-new Law on the municipal economy then it would really be useful for local self-government not to rush these amendments and additions because we have already passed several legislative regulations, because the deadlines of harmonisation and decision-making are n behind decisions and acts in municipalities and cities this year. So this summer for them will be a season of compliance with the laws. And that's why I really think there's a great danger that this harmony is either not going to come or it's going to be made unquality, and then we're going to blame them again for not respecting the law. As for the dilemma about the transport of the deceased, was it a communal activity so far? I use the Croatian Parliament documents and decisions of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia and the explanation of some decision by Parliament is also an essential ingredient of attitude and political, but also in terms of the legal norm, I repeat, that the transport of the deceased, the equipment, the sale of coffins and crosses, the obituaries and everything else should not be interpreted and implemented as municipal activity, but is said to be an activity that must be on the free market. If there is a problem in service quality. If there is a problem that some of the larger or smaller entrepreneurs involved do not meet even the minimum standards and quality, then the problem is not solved by concession, but by license, as each of the activities of general interest for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. In this regard, I have also submitted three amendments that allow the applicant to ask that the question of the transport of the deceased and that we do not declare the deceased neither communal nor public goods, by the fact that the price of that transport is paid by relatives and heirs, not municipalities, and cities or the state budget. Another serious change in this short bill is that citizens, i.e. building owners, must use a public waste disposal service or translated to make people understand home waste. In terms of environmental protection, I welcome this measure and I think that if the municipality has put forth efforts and organised such a communal activity that it is the obligation of all the owners of the facilities to use this service. However, looking at the Waste Act and this law, and I remind myself of the problems of only a few months old, we are not going to the whole solution again that those who are in charge of organising and issuing concessions, and who are committed to this business to collect household waste separately, or selected, by which the amount of waste that we are dumping on dumps across Croatia can be reduced by 40% by legal or illegal ones. Namely, just the data from Međimurje County can serve you as proof that the amount of waste that is being transported to the dump has been reduced by 40 months by the cooperation of citizens more than good. And I don't mean those containers that are being placed in the neighborhoods, but the ride out of the house in a separate way. The third change the law makes is that the facility will not be able to join the municipal infrastructure unless there is a building permit and that the building permit will not be issued before a municipal contribution is paid. And now by law there is a provision that the owner of the building is obliged to use another municipal service, which is the supply of drinking water and the disposal of waste water, so sewers. Now and that's the fifth newspaper, there are fines from 5 to 10 thousand kunas for those who won't connect to the water line, to the sewerage, which they build without a building permit, which they join without construction and without communal contributions, and who don't use garbage transportation. At the same time, the provision of Article 35, which requires that each consumer pays the actual price of the connection when connecting to the municipal infrastructure. That's what this means to you. If there's a water and sewer network in front of my house, I'm going to pay 3 meters of connection costs, and the neighbor across the street is going to pay 18 meters, so 6 times the price. Ms. Minister, she certainly knows that the region in Croatia, such as Međimurje, which has on the territory of the county, not the city, developed water supply of gas network, telephony, electricity, and the sewerage around 30%, came to this in a model when the average price was paid and every citizen paid the same cost that we achieved. That the number of those who are not connected to municipal infrastructure facilities is extremely low compared to those who could join and that this price has then fallen for the largest number of citizens. Those who immediately call for consumer protection and their right to pay only real expenses, then I ask what is wrong with those citizens who are neither in debt on the other side of the road or on the street, and whose urbanist or planner makes six times the cost, because he decided on the map to draw that the sewerage 100 meters goes along the right side of the road, then crosses the road 200 meters to the left, and then goes on the right, depending on where the house of the mayor, mayor, the President of the Municipal Council or someone else.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-04-0.u13718	Please don't throw it out of the bench.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-04-0.u13719	Truth sometimes hurts, and delusions are sometimes more difficult than truth. So those who deal with the problem of consumer protection, then I ask the question. Do we have the right to make a decision or a law that obliges a citizen to pay for something and use what costs 10, 15, 20 thousand kuna? and under conditions which he cannot in any way influence. Therefore, if there are positive experiences, 20 years old, and when we talk about the communal form of editing, and now we are not calling for the help of Ms. Minister and there are parts of Croatia that have managed to do so, then it would be finally time for us to take at least part of the rules from where there was something good or good, and not for us to reach and adapt forever to the situation or the region where the problems are greatest. and if there is a medium solution, let those who can continue their municipal development with one model of solidarity and average prices, and make sure that others do what you think only public repression can achieve. So, I advocate that we extend the issue of local self-government authority in this law, and that where it works well, we give them the opportunity to continue their development without the need to brake or turn back. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-04-0.u13720	Thank you very much. The Minister spoke for it. The colleagues and colleagues still have about 10 registered and 2 agenda points prior to the vote, suggestive information. Here you go, Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-04-0.u13721	Well, I'll just take it for a while, so it doesn't turn out to be someone pushing something. I've already said that communal activity is in the domain of the local self-government unit. They also determine the price of the connection, and the average of the entire connection, everything as they are the provisions. That's true, and that's what the law says. But the law also states that the price of the connection cannot be higher than the average salary, gross wages in the Republic of Croatia in the previous year. Well, it says in the Law of God. Here, it says.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-04-0.u13722	Thank you very much. My colleagues and colleagues, I'd like some more patience. A colleague, Lesar, a correction to an incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-04-0.u13723	I apologize, but I have to react because it turns out I can't read regulations and laws, but I know very well. Madam Minister, you're 50% right. When a citizen joins a municipal infrastructure, he pays two types of price, a connection fee and a connection price. You've been quoting the tax clause and it's up to 5200 if I'm not mistaken right now. I was talking about the real cost of the connection, paragraph 1. of Article 35. The law.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-04-0.u13724	Thank you very much, colleague Lesar. Next in the debate is counterpart Krunoslav Markovanovic, who has otherwise given up correcting the incorrect quote, commendation, please welcome colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-04-0.u13725	Here, I thank Madam Vice President but I'll start with that, I'm a little sorry actually that my friend here is Mr. Lesar attacking again the mayors, the mayors, going barrels towards them and so on. All I have to say is that my neighbors were very bitter and always the last pipe came into our street, and now what can we do? Here, let's go back here. This proposal will certainly receive strong support from local self-government units because by accepting it, it will increase revenues from municipal contributions. The Law on the municipal economy was passed in early 2003, after which the investor was granted a building permit and then concluded a contract on payment of a municipal contribution with the municipality or city. A hit on the avoidance of payment of municipal contributions. In fact, investors do not often report, do not state at addresses based on documentation. They make up different excuses like that is enough and similar, without arguments, and we know what the consequences are. And the consequences of this Article 32 have been reduced or, at best, irregular, delayed, the income of cities or municipalities, which in reduced income tax revenues, by increasing the untaxable base, reduced income tax. Then increased obligations, social, schooling, the fire department led to a difficult position for cities and municipalities and that the previous government did not make up for it except giving the right to introduce new taxes, cuts, etc. With uncertain revenues, units of local self-government have adopted a municipal infrastructure construction programme for 4 years in advance. And I guess it's been avoided for five years not to be identical to the Russian five years from when the plan was more important than the realization. So I welcome the obligation to adopt a programme, build objects and edit the municipal infrastructure for a one-year period according to this proposal because it's actually hard to know how much money we're going to have tomorrow. The lawless, lawless construction of the past few years has not been given the necessary attention, it could even be said that the government has tacitly tolerated such construction, and has encouraged the accession of illegally built objects to the municipal infrastructure. I'm not sure she was rewarded by political points, but the consequences are terrible. The devastrated coast is packed with ugly buildings of all styles, clearly, illegally built but neatly connected to the communal infrastructure. For such mahma apartment facilities there is often no project documentation, so the picture is even uglier. In continental Croatia, there is no such building by protected landscapes. Investors clearly and publicly declare, publicly, we are also on television that they were convinced that the rule of law would not function. Well, now we're surprised what you're supposed to do. The significant damage suffered by local self-government to unpaid municipal contributions should be reiterated. The urgent adoption of the proposed measures, i.e. the ban on the integration of illegally built objects of municipal infrastructure, will certainly stop the illegal construction of a specially branched, branched apartment business. The obligation to use cleanliness services in the section relating to the collection and disposal of municipal waste must certainly be regulated by an emergency procedure, because without this decision but also by high penalties, environmental pollution will continue because residents who refuse the service of organised waste disposal not only delay in other people's containers but unfortunately delay that they do not touch me much but they put waste away in forests, streams so that in a nature that once looked nice, we avoid walking more and more. Unfortunately, an imminent increase in service prices and waste dumps affects the elderly households and families with low incomes, so a collection is necessary according to the amount of waste. Right? Households have very little waste and little packaging. I believe that by adopting a new law on the municipal economy and its related laws, it will also resolve a series of irregularities, inconsistencies and contribute to improving the quality of life and environmental protection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-04-0.u13726	Thanks a lot, buddy. The following has been reported by MP Damir Cain. Here you go, my colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-04-0.u13727	Dear Madam Vice President, distinguished MPs and MPs, dear Madam Minister. This is a law that is in some way announced as the one that should, for God's sake, prevent illegal construction. This is a law which, on the other hand, indirectly suggests in its argument that local self-government co-criminal, pardon, unlawful construction, or this law in some way calls the former authority as the one that has led to the amendment of the Law on the Community Economy de facto to unfair construction. It's my opinion that none of it actually stands or that a little bit better said than that is true. Why? Irregular construction is not specific to the period from 2000 to 2000. However, far more illegal objects were built before that date. In Istria today, it is still between 11 and 12 thousand illegal objects, clearly not counting that anyone who built something has built it without a building permit, for example. Some garage or something. Annually, about 200 buildings without a building permit are built in Istrian spaces without a building permit clearly from that number, and this is one huge not only Istrian but all social problem. And we illegally know all the cities, the lawless cities and the tycoons, the mayors, the poor, the lawless construction of powerful companies, the lawless construction of cities and states, the lawless construction of local self-government, and ultimately the lawless construction of those who should be able to control the illegal construction itself. Why is she respected by gentlemen like that? I claim one third or one third of the illegal construction can primarily be thanked by rudely expensive donations that precede the construction permit. One third of the illegal construction can be thanked for the rudely long procedures of entering the building permit and for the remaining third of the illegal construction we can thank the impertinence, better said unscrupulous, lawless builder. The story we hear here today most of all from the minister herself that individuals didn't know or that someone promised them that something could be defended or legalized is just stories for naives. To be honest, I can't understand an individual who has 500 thousand kunas and I believe that he came to that money bloody means that money was made in a fair way, that money, that individual, is investing in something that could already be handed over to him tomorrow. I just can't understand, I can't understand one of these irrational behaviors, even though I can understand that some individuals or some company on the other hand are building something and they're not losing money. Being able to understand such behavior from another ancient person does not mean that I approve of such behavior or that I stand up for such behavior. I personally advocate first of all that all the illegal, administrative barriers... that people can build, work because it's been 70s or 80s when someone could count, wait, get a social apartment. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] There is simply no more, although I claim that 50% of these social apartments were built in some way without building documentation because that is not how it is then that citizens who have been given the opportunity to buy these apartments would not have so many problems for enrolling them in the land books. Why am I saying that, dear gentlemen? So because I claim that this illegal construction did not allow for the amendment of the law that today is about allowing a citizen to connect to water or to another municipal service. I already said everyone knew, better said anyone knows whether they were building or not. Second, if a utility company, for example, operates a water pipeline, for example, on a market principle. More specifically, if this waterworks are not touched, excuse me, from a city, from a municipality or some county, it is important to them that they can sell their service as much as possible. That would be the only logic in my mind. It's not up to them now to make sure that person A, B, C or I don't know anyone else has or doesn't have a building permit. Presumption, I don't know, I'm going to call it innocence means that applicants of these demands are not lawless builders. True, this is not to be cared for by a water pipeline but should be taken care of in this country, so a structured state body is a better-ranked inspection. So let us train the inspections so that they can react at some appropriate time, and let us now ask, for example, the plumber to become an inspection. Second, even more important than that. We allow a building permit in this country to expire in 30, maybe 60, not more than 90 days, and in some individuals, in some cases individuals have been waiting for it for not two but three and more years. And that's, and that's actually the point. I absolutely advocate the introduction of order into space. But this law, however spectacularly we are, simply won't allow it in my court. For example, what if someone now asks for a water connection to water the garden and later uses it to build a building? In that case, is that waterworks guilty again? It's not. So, on the other hand, what is absolutely necessary is to introduce order on our coast, and then let the penal law that we talked about and in yesterday's proposal of the Government prescribe the responsibility of these lawless builders, but let the law also punish and delay the issue of a building permit because, for example, five years ago, a building in this country could have been built a family house for 150 thousand marks, and today 5 years later, it also takes 150 thousand, but this time the EUR. And why does it matter? The important thing is that, normally, this country is moving in this way, that in moments when there are no more social dwellings, an individual can build a house for himself, and to create the assumption that the administration starts to do its job, not to make life difficult for people who want to build. It means that someone in the administration could do their job expediently in this way, too, must be written and existing laws. There's something else I want to say. It's easy to crash in this country. I think it's a lot harder to build. I personally advocate legalisation and illegal construction wherever possible if it is possible to fit it into spatial-planned documentation. If it's not clear then the only solution can be the demolition. Understandably, it should be done in a way that these individuals pay all the fees and that they are clearly prescribed a proper punishment. How do you knock it down? Is it just the chosen ones or everyone? How wide in all this is just going? It is clear that it is not possible to access it comprehensively in a country that has perhaps 200 thousand with objects built without the necessary planning or building documentation. A few weeks ago, we had a chance, and Mr. Širac said something about it, to listen to this controversy that rose in Slovenian media because of the collapse of some Slovenian cottages in Istria. I'm sorry about that. I will do everything to make no distinction between the citizens of Slovenia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, France, Austria, but I also want to say that the citizens of Slovenia were really brave when they illegally built 50 or 100 meters from the coast after the 90th. By the 1990s it might have been logical, we all lived in one country but after the 90th already, I would say bordering with courage although this polemic that appeared was mostly expanded because of the unsequential parliamentary and these state elections, which are soon expected in neighbouring Slovenia. All in all, I'm afraid this law will not bear fruit, but the fear that it may be a broken house, that someone may end up in prison because of illegal construction may be able to limit illegal construction even though they will never fully cancel it. Finally, you and we all know we can also register an illegal building in a land book in C, the services send warnings of inspection. Thus, no one can be achieved at that time. [[Employer: A fellow representative, time.]] There isn't.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-04-0.u13728	You're out, it's out. Thank you very much. Let's move on with the debate. Honorable representativeplatimir Mršić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-04-0.u13729	Dear vice presidents, esteemed ministers and associates, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. First of all, I want to explain what my colleague Lesar said about the fee for joining and paying real costs. So it was common at least in northwestern Croatia that there was one form of co-financing where citizens, together with local self-government, agreed to part, under the same conditions in all areas of the city co-finance the construction of municipal infrastructure. And in this way, it really happened that the municipal infrastructure was built primarily by water and gas in a large part of these settlements. Now the law no longer foresees this but the law stipulates that a fee can be charged for joining up to 10% of the average salary paid in the Republic of Croatia and the actual cost of connection from road water secondary network to chess. So that's the two things. I think the solution used to be better because it could be arranged to build a communal infrastructure with its kind of contribution because it was not in the past and, for example, a large part of Koprivnica would not have built water and gas. Since water was paid there for 2,000 marks, and gas 1000 marks no matter how far away the house was from the center, the city center. As a matter of fact, this law should be supported. Indeed, the provisions of this Law would be good to support but it would be a law that would fully address the issue of the municipal economy. But what worries me here is that it seems to me that the intensity of this Law is indeed that almost all or most of the responsibility for illegal construction is transferred to local, local self-government because there are some mayors and mayors of some kind of confirmations that allow the house, villas, apartments to be built illegally, to concreteize the Adriatic coast. While, on the other hand, the country that is truly responsible, there is no responsibility in this matter, it is powerless. I would rather support the proposal to amend the inspection law where, or the budget of the Republic of Croatia, which would allow us to employ 100 new building inspectors who would apply to the business and who would then prevent any illegal construction that is going on at the moment. Because this law refers to what has already been built. So what's wrongly built, we're not going to let him do the communal instruction. But what's just being built right now he can't wait to do it. So they do not prevent an illegal grande, there is no discrimination against illegal construction, because the citizens of Croatia need to learn that nothing can be built in this country until you have a civil permit. Not because the mayor won't let you join the water and gas. Do we know how we can connect to the current in this country, and that's what the mayors give permission to connect the haystacks? How is it that all the lawless buildings are connected to the current on the low voltage network. And who's responsible for it. And who's going to change what law we're going to change there? I've now checked there's only an internal act by the president of HEP's administration to manage the demand to get an insight into the building permit to join the low voltage grid. So there's no legal solution. You can get electricity, but there's some chief or mayor's boast and he'll give you or won't let you join the municipal infrastructure. This bill is good, but the purpose of this bill is not to prevent illegal construction, the purpose of this bill is to increase the efficiency of the collection of municipal contributions. Because it predicts that you must have a building permit to have a building permit you must pay a municipal contribution or at least the first war of a municipal contribution if the municipal contribution is paid in more war. So that's the meaning of this law. We're going to tear down houses that are illegally built and illegally connected to a communal infrastructure or not. Is this a condition that the house is connected to the municipal infrastructure illegally built to legalise it, and not to bring it down or not? That's some questions. But here, I'll open up some more dilemmas. Do you really want to stop the illegal construction with this law? Is the problem only that no plans have been adopted in the units of local self-government and when they are adopted, illegal construction will be prevented. Whether an illegal guard works in only the building areas, or formed outside construction zones. What about the buildings that have a building permit, but they're not built according to a building permit. What about the object that is the storage of the fruit, and the apartment on the three floors is created. He's got a building permit. He's connected to a communal infrastructure. Are we going to stop it? Are we going to stop it in such a way as to keep it from burning. So, you ask a whole series of questions, and you really need to install this into a new law, because I think that the decisions that local self-government units are going to make are probably about nine months away because no one is going to call the city council at eight months. And the municipal council to amend the decision to join the decision on the municipal order. So at the end of the nine months, the decisions of cities and municipalities will come into effect. At that time, we will already be here discussing a new law on the municipal economy, and again forcing units of local self-government to coordinate all their acts, with the new law on the municipal economy. Which is likely to regulate this, perhaps in a better way, than is regulated here today. And a whole series of other things. What's good is that it's getting rid of I won't talk about the deceased here I agree with what's in the law, and I won't talk about this to get gas and heat out because it's really okay and it's a good solution. What I'm trying to say about garbage is that it's a good thing to introduce an obligation to collect municipal waste from construction. However, I am now asking the minister when the implementing rules for the collection of environmental tax will be passed. when we're going to stimulate cities that have green islands that have recycling courtyards, which have the disposal of bulk waste. We in Koprivnica have a green island on 500 inhabitants. We've got twice a year to collect bulk waste, we've got a recycling yard that costs everything. It's all costing. But we have a problem because the milkers have gone over to the five packagings they're not paying for anything. And the brewers went to the maximum packaging and to the packaging; they paid nothing. They've moved on to cans nothing to pay for all that coming to cities on cargo. Whether they're doing the selection or coming to their dump. This is where we introduce the obligation to the ugly. All right, but it's not just the citizens who are responsible for the creation of the waste. It's the producers who create such packaging. What's worse is that importers import garbage into five packagings, importing plastics, importing metal. And they don't pay anything for it. You cannot introduce packaging into Germany without paying an ecological tax on customs duties. You're paying a tax on waste management. We have the law on repayment here, but the ministry needs to lay down implementing rules. I ask the question when will the ministry bring it in? And when they're going to stimulate local self-government units to access the section. And those who already make it easy on them. And in the end, it would be good if we had already changed the law today, if we had got two more things that bother local self-supply units, we don't sow the state. One thing is the question of the accession fee I was talking about on the board. So the connection fee you can only connect to one of that uncle's connections whether the building has one residential unit, and the business space, or it has 30 or 40. I have submitted the amendment in that sense, so I ask you to respect it. Because now we're in a situation where big apartment buildings pay for one connection fee, just for what's on this. And the second question of efficiency in the payment of municipal compensation. Today, it's impossible to charge a utility fee from the pensioners. Forced charge impossible. Therefore, the law should define how to do so and that should have been a good thing to be resolved by this law. And now only at the end of the sentence will you allow me. Yes, if so, the question arises on the basis of what you can perform in the first place on the communal infrastructure. Morate has some kind of location permit, all the violations of the regulations remain. Because it is said that the component of the space law is to regulate that the component of the location permit is the way and conditions of joining the building particle or building, to the public legal traffic area and the municipal infrastructure. So you have to have it all else is a violation of the law. whether it's a violation of the law by investors, performers or units of local self-government.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-04-0.u13730	Thank you very much. Next up is representative of Jure Bitunac.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-04-0.u13731	Madam Vice President, my fellow MPs, so I'll try to be as brief as possible and I can agree with one of the findings that I've been told before. People must live somewhere and it is the obligation of the local self-government and the legislator to bring such acts to enable people to live and communicate with each other in a normal manner. I would say when it comes to the communal economy, the law on the municipal economy that for the past three years the former government has been advocating a completely new law. Not only the changes but the brand new law in this direction has also begun to work on the development strategy of the municipal economy. But we have to say that's what's left of it. I would, Madam Minister, take this opportunity in some way and advise you to make a new law when the draft goes to say one public insight, for a public debate. By that I think it will be directed to units of local self-government, municipal societies, municipal associations, and in terms of making the new law more quality. I would like to welcome all of these changes, and in particular that you have highlighted and highlighted a clear distinction between municipal activity as such and what is marketable, and what has been treated as a communal activity in the current law, I mean first of all on funeral jobs, and I think that this proposal, that these changes are one significant shift, but not more what the citizens of the unit of local self-government expect and what they should get. I would also welcome the decision when it comes to the obligation to use disposal and disposal of waste and let me say something with one phenomenon that is not yet present with us, which is waiting for us, it is a problem of privatisation. We know that in many European Union countries, when it comes to municipal societies, when it comes to communal jobs, that many water lines are partly privatised, but the European Union's stance has been back three years, and this has been accepted by all members, that when it comes to municipal enterprises 51, 51% must be owned by local self-government units, and I think that's a good solution. We see that England is trying to return the control package when it comes to water supply because de facto the following is the case, that several companies that are through privatisation where the state, or cities and municipalities have allowed them to privatise this sector in the '70s, that today control the entire water supply system when it comes to disposal, and in this direction I believe that the government should find certain solutions, that is to make certain proposals and take views, or when it comes to water, water is wealth and wealth not only for us but wealth for future generations, and Croatia needs to protect its national interest. In that direction, I believe it will be necessary to make appropriate decisions, and when it comes to water supply, then it will need, in my opinion, to amend some laws, mainly the Water Economy Financing Act, but one other time. Here I would like to thank you for your attention and, in some ways, once again appeal to allow units of local self-government and municipal companies and associations to participate in the creation of a new law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-04-0.u13732	Thank you very much, colleague. It's Pejo Trječević's turn. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-04-0.u13733	Madam Vice President, Madam Minister with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. Here, Madam Vice President, I'm going to be really correct, so I'm going to be very brief, but I have some things to warn you, as well as some praise for the amendments and additions to the Law on the Communist Economy. I, too, have figured out as my colleagues that it is about changes and additions to prevent this law from being built again. So a ban on connections to municipal infrastructure under this law would prevent some illegal construction of both family houses and other facilities. Regarding the payment of a municipal contribution that must be paid before obtaining a building permit, I absolutely agree with that, however, what about the proposal when a municipal contribution is paid in a circular manner, so that according to the law which applied for a building permit is paid by the first war only, so that we can obtain a building permit, whether we will then settle it with normal court practice or in court. I certainly welcome the proposal to introduce the payment of the municipal service for the transport of municipal waste where it is and in which local environments are organised. So that would actually solve a wild dump and a variety of wild dumps. This is certainly to welcome that the construction programme for each year must, in my opinion, be in line with the programme and plan of the municipal activity of the units of local self-government and, indeed, the unit of local self-government in its calculation, i.e. the budget for each year, could also provide for those relieved circumstances or exemptions from individual municipal giving of citizens, because we all know that if the unit of local self-government releases someone from the municipal contribution, then it must settle it from the second item, so it is certainly a quality proposal to install it into its budget. I agree that the responsible persons in the local self-government are chiefs and mayors, but I think they should bear sanctions, i.e. they should be punished, but in that segment where they are in charge of municipal infrastructure and activity, and in no way turn the mayors and mayors into police officers who will monitor whether something may be wrongly being built or not. I would just like to point out and add on a proposal for this law that speaks of the transport of the deceased, as my colleague Pero Kovacevic has already said. In the debate, it has already been crystallised and said on several occasions that units of local self-government could, by law, establish their own municipal enterprise which, by setting up that company, would take away concessions for all those who now have concessions for the transport of the dead and take over these jobs. I can give an example quite the opposite. Here in my midst, in my town of Petrinja there is and there is a municipal city company that is equipped for all of this, but here are the coincidences that the chairman of the supervisory board of this same municipal company and by chance a member of the headship and happens to have his own private funeral services company, and here some time ago they granted a concession to this very gentleman, so I think that this law should also specify this and not allow such public service in local self-government. I support these procedures in this law with good faith that very soon we will make the Ministers more comprehensive and quality of the Law on the Communist Economy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-04-0.u13734	Next up is Alenka Koshasha's representative Chichin-Shain. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-04-0.u13735	Dear Madam Vice President, Your Honor, Madam Minister. Earlier in this personal debate, I would first of all absolutely commend your efforts to reduce the amount of illegal construction if it can't be said to be controlled, but to at least reduce it by not joining the facilities to the municipal infrastructure. Also, given the practice of life I have spent and the idea of paying for a municipal contribution, I welcome it because I know what it actually means. No matter what I did in the debate on behalf of the club, I did it in another way, or I commented on it from the title, so that I would really rather see this thing resolved in full, to get rid of it legally and, please, and I really urge it to be our goal. So we accept palitative solutions, of course we know from practice there are no other ways at the moment, but I really advocate that in the next legislative activities, when this matter will be fully resolved to adopt in accordance with the Law on Construction, the Law on Spatial Planning, Lands and all others, once and for all, that this problem is finally fully addressed and fully solved. I, unlike some of those present here, believe that, otherwise, illegal construction must be solved at the level of spatial plans. Don't wait for the houses to build and crash. This is no longer the time to function, or if we want to solve it systematically, it is no longer the time. The moment has to be when there are plans and building permits have to be issued. No one in Switzerland thought to go around as an inspector forbidding someone to build because no Swiss construction had ever occurred to go into lawless construction. So let's turn the whole thing around. This is where you might still look back at the next one. A little bit, for example. to the observations you made on the adoption of a better quality Law on the municipal economy that was in our jurisdiction. I'll allow it. There's an observation in place. We could have changed it better than you noticed, but I have to tell you, that law was really in the Ministry of Public Works while all the other topics related to construction were in the Ministry of Construction. So it wasn't in one ministry. If that theme were the best and you know it, when you were the minister back then in that period until 2000, these things could have changed, too. So we just know that they're pretty complex. As far as the city of Zagreb's leprosy is concerned, I wouldn't want to do the same thing you didn't want to do. I would just point out that there were still some specific circumstances for the City of Zagreb. I agree that the loss of cities is being brought at 20 years level, but the City of Zagreb, given the war situation, given some specificities relating to large immigration of the population, to major war destruction, to the tolerance of wild suburban settlements, as I said, unfortunately the unfortunate privatisation of various industrial complexes, indeed became special circumstances, that the loss of the City of Zagreb had to be brought. I also allow that this loss is not the best solution and I allow that, with the moment of adoption, it could go immediately into its changes and still today I plead for it. But I think it's better to have a plan than not to have one. Maybe there's only one thing I'd look back on here. As for the word chaos I used in the context of the problem of performing funeral work. For example, taking over and transporting the deceased on the free market often binds the gray zone, giving priority to some carriers in hospitals. On the other hand, these carriers often not equipped with enough free use of local mortuary refrigeration services, as well as only digging and burial is often a matter of direct contract between relatives and workers in the smaller cemetery. In Zagreb, for example, this activity was carried out by summer last year freely on the market and with the cemetery Mirogoj contacted cca 60 constantly up to 100 occasional carriers. After the tender for the award of concessions is held today, 36 carriers do so, and concessions among them are also awarded to the city's Samobor company. This number of carriers certainly raises the economic viability of doing this job, with a defined limit of 40 companies for the City of Zagreb. In my opinion, personally, too. This is the position of the concession by the local self-government unit as well as the free market does not solve the whole of this problem. Western countries like Austria have very high standards for obtaining concessions, for equipping and transporting the deceased, by issuing concessions at the state or province level and demanding business and work space, refrigerators. Mandatory number of employees, the passing of tests consisting of the oral and practical part. For example, in Barcelona, which is a pandan of all Croatia's population, the comprehensive performance of these business large incomes and the monopoly of the city's business. I suggest that this issue is regulated by law in full, therefore, in the coming Law to regulate fully. The transport from the hospital or place of death to the morgue in that place leaves the organisation owned by a city or unit of local self-government, there, and according to the wish of relatives’ equipment and possibly further transport to another city can be carried out by carriers on the free market. So, providing the possibility of a combination of interests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-04-0.u13736	Correction of the incorrect allegations, respected representative Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-04-0.u13737	So I'd like to correct the incorrect allegations about it when you can and can't issue a building permit. So you can either issue a building permit when there is and when there are no spatial plans or you can't issue it, so it's an illegal construction. It can't happen that you don't have a spatial plan, and you get a building permit, right? So, no, spatial plans are not a prerequisite or will not eliminate illegal construction. Irregular construction will only remove government supervision and citizens' awareness. You can have a spatial plan, so you will have an illegal construction going on within the spatial plan.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-04-0.u13738	Dear Representative Jaksa Marasovic. He's gone. He's losing his word. Honorable representative Miroslav Korenika.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-04-0.u13739	Thank you very much, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, Madam Minister. I will look only at the first part of the amendments and the addition of this Law because it seems to me that we have all forgotten how we discussed in the previous term and how this House of the Parliament refused to give an interpretation regarding funeral work. At that time, it was the request of a group of persons, craftsmen and companies involved in funeral services, and it was precisely that of the Assembly in its interpretation that refused to give an interpretation gave and described that funeral jobs were considered to be other than burial itself and other than the mortuary itself in the cemetery, that it was not a municipal activity but that it was an activity that could be done as a commercial business and where competition should be. I am very saddened and I must admit that I am surprised that this is how the monopoly develops in Croatia. I'd like to hear from Madam Minister who are the reasons why this hour goes in favor of those cities and municipalities that have their own utility companies, who, by the way, have registered from funeral work, to different commercial activities, to brtiums, not to say everything else. And now those without a contest can only get such a job. In this regard, I stress that earlier years, the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia, on examples from Split, Rijeka and Dubrovnik, gave an interpretation that the transport of dead persons is not a municipal activity, but that it is an activity that must be on the market, except for specific and specific cases such as special infectious diseases and everything else. By the way, under this law, we still don't know how this activity between the two units of local self-government will be regulated. For example, if one of my families dies or dies in a hospital in Split, in which way and who has the right to transport from Split or from Rijeka to Varazdin. This law makes it completely unclear and is not well regulated. We also have different kinds of transportation of dead persons. They can be especially from abroad and by plane and by boat, and I would like to ask an explanation of how it can be regulated. Especially with cities and municipalities that, once again, I stress, which have their own facilities, their own companies. In various activities that are communal, without granting concessions, they give and give to their own companies, and I ask you who will appoint me as a private person that is why I have to entrust the transport of my deceased to the burial site, or to the morgue. It would be normal for me, so, once again, I stress that I am an act of the morgue, including the burial being a communal activity because it is an activity of particular interest. On the other hand, I have to say another problem that often happens. Based on what we have in the province and what often happens. As a private investor, if I want to have a tomb or buy a tomb in a particular cemetery, it is normal for me, as well as for any administrative procedure as for obtaining a building permit, to determine the conditions of construction, for example a tomb or anything else, to give conditions for a company or a company or a company or a craftsman who has obtained a concession or which meets the law or special regulations provided for that it may carry out the construction. Unfortunately, this is how we develop a state or local monopoly. To give certain companies to do that and to do that, and to no one, to ask no one what the price is, in what way they do, turns out that we as natural persons have to pay for their irrationality and everything else. It seems to me that as a state of simple people who founded any company in the 1990s, any crafts, who hired a certain number of workers, who invested in their equipment, today we simply force them to put the key in the lock. If that's the market, if that's how we fight monopolies, I'm afraid and I'll be the first among MPs, but also among other people to initiate constitutional proceedings, because the Constitutional Court has already shown and proved that such jobs are not and cannot be a monopoly. I pray once again, and I think it would be the most normal if the state, too, means this high home wants to introduce more order in such matters, to call a tender and that units of local self-government necessarily call for concessions as the city of Zagreb has done, and all those who meet the conditions that they must receive concessions. Thus, this way for certain jobs we have options. In this way we protect freely it can say drones that live at the expense of all citizens, who have the price they want and when they want and where it ultimately leads. It seems to me, Madam Minister, that you haven't seen enough of the problem, especially because if you want to introduce order, you need to introduce specific regulations, where all these companies and trades that let's not forget this time employ about 2,000 workers, how much if they meet the conditions then they can work on the market, if not, with stricter supervision, perhaps stricter supervision which has been so far will have the possibility of survival on the market. I'm asking you one more time. Explain to me how a company owned by a local self-government unit, which has funeral jobs in its registration, which has greening, but which is also engaged in commercial activity, and that is different than the commercial activity from the sale of food products to the fact that it has a coffee shop, a birtium and everything else, in which way is the municipal activity? We protect them twice. And I'm afraid under these conditions I won't be ready to raise my hand to this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-04-0.u13740	Thank you very much. We still have two five-minute debates on behalf of the clubs. The first is a respected representative on behalf of the HNS Club, the PGS, Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-04-0.u13741	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, Madam Minister. In an individual debate, time went away, so I left one topic below for the end, and I think it's of great importance for the whole country. In fact, this law introduces a household obligation to be involved in the management of household waste under conditions and at prices determined by municipalities and cities, i.e. units of local self-government. However, the obligation for importers and traders to participate in this is not introduced by any other regulation, and so on in Croatia every obligation to dispose of waste, and most of it is in domestic waste and in paper packaging manufacturers, glass packaging, packaging cartons, plastic and metal packaging. The only person who has to bear the costs of that care at the moment is citizens, if that model is so organized, or units of local self-government without being able to influence the behaviour of those who bring packaging into a particular area or whole country that is being turned into waste tomorrow. When I mentioned Međimuri before, there were a lot of bitter reactions, so let me briefly ask that the issue of supplying packaging waste in most of the county is regulated in a way that every month a municipal company from every household in front of each apartment and house collects that waste in selected bags depending on the packaging it is about. That big waste is collected once a month, and that citizens, in order to have the right to delay such separate waste, must buy a bag that costs one kuna. Where we don't have that, we have green islands, containers that go and whose discharge goes exclusively to the burden of municipalities or cities. We're witnessing major problems, but we're also having a big debate about where we're going with the waste. There's gonna be a fight about where the dumps are going to be. Dispute over whether we're gonna let someone else or, other places in our backyard drive their junk. And then we have barricades and blockades, we have disdain and protests. So even the state government had to get involved. If we'd spent only 10% of our time talking about how to reduce that amount of waste, it'd probably be far less of these problems. And I'm done with my next application. If a new Law on the Communist Economy is being prepared for the end of the year. Madam Minister, please all, that, either in that law or in addition to the Waste Act, we regulate the issue of separate waste, but not only as an obligation for citizens, producers, importers and traders. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-04-0.u13742	Thank you. On behalf of the HSLS Club, DC, Honored Representative Ivan Chehok.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-04-0.u13743	Mr. President, Madam Minister and Associates, ladies and gentlemen. It is absolutely certain that these amendments and additions to the Law will not stop at the end of illegal construction, but at least we will try to introduce new instruments and new mechanisms that we will seek and increase sanctions against those who are illegally building, and also prevent them when it comes to obtaining all those permits, i.e. prior consent so that a permit can be issued at all. However, I think this may be the first time we have already approached the adoption of a new law by the end of the year, for the first time in Croatia, to make a law in which there will finally be expressions of Finas energy between state bodies, i.e. the central state, local self-government and citizens themselves, so natural persons who will request permits. The effectiveness of the public service of the ladies and gentlemen is not in taking very much into account all the necessary consent and all the necessary contributions and compensation that citizens will need to make, but the efficiency of the public service is precisely in achieving this fine participation between local self-government and the state. I'd still like that law to be more deregulatory. and if it is already a communal economy in the jurisdiction of local self-government units, then that units of local self-government are actually creating rules under which municipal activity will take place. Because we can't forget, and no one here today said they weren't just citizens of lawless builders. Well, ladies and gentlemen, the greatest lawless builder was a state. Well, most of the roads, and now in this government's term, have been built before without all the necessary permits. So the state was actually the biggest if we looked at the level of investment, the state was actually the greatest lawless builder. And then we expect an ordinary man, an ordinary citizen, to get all the permits when the state didn't have those permits. Therefore, when we talk about it, we need to think about what the state is doing. What should also be changed first of all is the fact that unfortunately, the red tape of the dispute is that we are often witnessing the silence of bureaucracy and that unfortunately we are witnessing and corruption of bureaucracy. Therefore, if we want to end the illegal construction, then we must really create an effective public service that I agree with my colleague Mršić, and we will not have to change urban plans or with building plans but rather with effective supervision. And it would be good for you, Madam Minister, to consider that supervision of the building, or construction inspection, jurisdiction over the construction inspection and supervision of the municipal economy, have local units above all large cities. Now it's happening that everyone's talking to the mayors, that everyone's warning us to watch something here is building something that's suspicious to us and that practically the mayors don't have the possibility of an inspection, that the mayors don't have the ability to control and we practically have to answer for something we're not guilty of and what we're not really familiar with and what we're not familiar with. Therefore, it would be wise to consider that large cities have their own organized services that would make it much easier for us to put an end to illegal construction than is now the case. And I must finally say when it comes to the transport of the deceased, I completely mean the opposite of my colleague, the Korenika. I don't mind, and as a liberal, I would always advocate the demonopolization of services. But only if all those who carry the deceased have met all the minimum technical standards that they can do the job. Unfortunately, they don't have it today, they don't have the most common cooling chambers, they don't have duty because I'm asking you what happens to those who die in a car accident? Who's gonna take over the dead like that? Today, they are being taken over by local self - administration units to be often taken over by others who, therefore, have sold their equipment because they cannot be taken over because they do not have a duty on duty. Therefore, if someone wants to take over some of the jobs that are now an economic, or communal economy, I strongly agree with that, but let them meet all the minimum technical conditions for them to be able to deal with. Once again, we will support the adoption of this law but we do ask the Minister to try to ensure this synergy between the local self-government ministry and particularly inspection and supervisory oragans who need to monitor the implementation of this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-04-0.u13744	Thank you very much. Also on behalf of the SDP Club for the last 5 minutes, Honored Representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-04-0.u13745	Respect. Madam Minister, one more word, two more on this topic of municipal activity and the transport of the deceased. I think there's still two things to tell. One thing is road transport, so transporting the deceased from the death site to the burial site. It could be in another city, it could be in another country. A man dies in Zagreb, his family wants him buried somewhere on the island. This may mean transporting first road to the airport, then by plane to some airport at sea, then by boat to that island, it certainly utility activity cannot be. It is the performance of a road-specific activity that has its own requirements, my God, in which vehicles must be carried out, according to which rules, but with the communal activity it has nothing to do with. There is another type of transport of the deceased person that takes place within the cemetery itself. So, from the morgue to the burial site, from that reflection of the shipment to the cremation plant, and later the transport goes back to the burial site, the urn laying down, it can be a communal activity. And you, if you look at the invoices he's sending, for example. Mirogoj, you will find items of transportation there. Right this guy, let's call him communal activity, communal transport. These are the jobs that need to be done within the cemetery itself but let's not confuse it with road transport because it is one of the 15 activities that must be on the market, which must be available to all those who want to and can do so and who have to compete equally in obtaining such jobs. Let's also let the deceased's family choose the carrier they want for a job like that. I am convinced that many would not agree to this job being a coastal service. No, you wouldn't. Therefore, it is not separate in this present proposal, and two types of transport. They're not clearly defined. Not that they are not clearly defined, but it is said that under the transport of the deceased, the takeover and transport of the deceased from the place of death to the morgue at the cemetery or crematorium is meant. For example. It's not said to possibly have a home, there's not even a morgue in many places, there's smaller villages, there's a deceased lying in the house. He wants his family to take him there. So anyway, if you don't have an amendment suitable to correct this, but do it anyway when you're passing a new law, let's separate these two activities. Don't use this kind of banishment to please some utility companies to completely unfairly and not compete with the people they're dealing with as their business as a craftsman.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-04-0.u13746	Thank you very much. Please, Minister Marina Matulović-Dropulic for the final review.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-04-0.u13747	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, at the end of the day, the amendments to the law on the municipal economy have actually turned into a discussion about the illegal construction and transportation of the deceased. Everything else was obviously less important that I understand that these are the most important two things. As far as illegal construction is concerned, this is just one of the measures. And we keep mentioning it and saying it all the time. There are more measures to be taken to reduce and curb the amount of illegal construction. I was talking about plans, we said we'd come up with plans faster and we'd secure money for those units in the state budget, for those units of local self-government that couldn't pay for it. The construction law, which is in the parliamentary procedure by amending and supplementing the Construction Act, makes it important to simplify the issue of construction permits. So it'll be easier to come to that. Then, as far as inspection services are concerned, no one says that the inspection services are not responsible for what happened about the illegal construction. No one said that, but the inspector's got less, that's certainly not enough. We have now received agreement from the Ministry of Finance and the State Administration Office that we can hire a new 68 inspectors. But human fluctuations are endless. Last year, 100 inspectors left this ministry. So we have to give them back their dignity to these people, so they mean something and we have to raise their wages otherwise there's just no way that the inspection stays on for a long time, actually the inspectors stay here for a long time. So we have to determine certain things, determine certain things, and this is one of the measures that we think is good. You talked about the Penal Code yesterday and today and therefore it's one of the measures. So there are more measures. In addition, we will now re-amend and supplement the Law on, spatial arrangement propose deadlines for drawing up spatial plans. So there's a lot that's going on, but trust me, these objects that are now pre-moving and they don't have permission for ground floor and floor, and they've made the ground floor and 5 floors, it's important to disable that kind of connection. That's what we're working on. As far as this transport of the deceased is concerned. Look, we've been thinking about this for a long time because the Association of craftsmen, unlike the Chamber, came forward. The Chamber thinks it should stay as we have suggested and as it has been in the law so far, and the Association of craftsmen thinks it should be changed and put on the free market. And now the question is what happens, for example, if a man dies in any small place. Who's that bastard gonna call? Either call the coroner or call the police. The police or the coroner should have a list of all the people involved in the free market in the transport of the dead. After that, this man they call first says I already have a ride. The other one says I already have a ride. The third says it costs so much and so much. What, how can he react? A local self-government unit can handle a lawsuit. We know how long the court dispute lasts, and the deceased lies where he lies. So home. So we can't put it on the free market right now. We said how it's been so far it's still been. If the local self-government unit has its own utility company, it will continue to work with it. If he can't put part in the concession, the part can still work through the funeral home, through his utility company. If there is no municipal company involved in the tender and Mrs Chicin-Shain, the city of Zagreb opened a concession competition in 1995 and was constantly calling, not until last year. So it wasn't on the free market in Zagreb either, but in the concession they reported 10, 15, 30 and the city of Zagreb decided who could win as well as all other cities, units of local self-government concession for the job. So I'm asking you to keep it that way for now. The moment we make the proposal, when we're going to do a proposal for a new law, there's no problem that we don't talk about it, and we're going to see plus and minus again, and what the state has to worry about is that every dead person needs to be taken care of. I could say a lot more about that, but I'll just say more about the junk. We have the Waste Act. The fact is that not all rules have been passed, rules should be passed but it is also true that for the first time this year, the waste of 150 million kuna is given for the recovery of dumps in certain cities, in municipalities as well as in Koprivnica. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-04-0.u13748	Thank you very much. Correction of an incorrect quote by a respected representative of the Korenika.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-04-0.u13749	I must say, Madam Minister, that unfortunately you are wrong when you say that everyone has the same position on the market and that everyone has the right to, and the possibility of getting a concession. The units of local self-government that have their own companies simply do not discuss a concession tender without you being right to speak and the ruling of the Constitutional Court of September 1999 which literally says this: these transactions are believed to be exposed to the market because, in the same way, they do not have the same legal position as all entrepreneurs on the market. Let us not forget that the Law on Commercial Society and Laws, which define craft activities, allowed people to register. After that, you do not give your special regulations the opportunity to work on the market. I am afraid that this article of the Law will come before the Constitutional Court and that you will not go very well because it has honored you to wait until a new law is passed, and people will lose their jobs because of your free interpretation of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-04-0.u13750	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate on this final bill. Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Communist Economy, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 99. The debate on the text of the law is over. We have a table with amendments. I would ask Minister Marina Matulović-Dropulic to take note of the amendments. Amendment No. 1 Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-04-0.u13752	We accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-04-0.u13753	Thank you, there's an integral part of the law. Two, Agent Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-04-0.u13754	We do not accept, we propose that, until the new law is passed and the full analysis is made in this activity, this proposal remains.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-04-0.u13755	Here you go, Comrade Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-04-0.u13756	I have tried this amendment and offered a solution where that part of the problem of transporting the deceased special categories will be in municipal activities and everything else on the market. I consider it as it has been so far, and this is actually an amendment to the attempt to resist various lobbys, especially the one from Radic's in Zagreb. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-04-0.u13757	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the votes he needed. 3. Amendment of the Club of Representatives of the HSP.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-04-0.u13758	She's not taking it. Same explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-04-0.u13759	A colleague of Pero Kovačević.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-04-0.u13760	First of all, I would like to thank Mrs. Secretary for accepting our amendment regarding the encouraging housing that even the volunteers of the Homeland War can enter the ring-off payment without participation. But in this amendment, I have to stay until the end precisely for those reasons that I spoke about the decisions of the Constitutional Court, related to that explanation of the unfortunate Croatian Parliament, but we will have problems because it is possible that people in the constitutional dispute will succeed, and we have problems that are 400 legal persons and employees. That's a big problem. We must be aware that we here will be held accountable if the dispute is succeeded before the Constitutional Court. And Croatia will pay for that damage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-04-0.u13761	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 4 by Dragutin Lesar's representative identical to this one, so it is not voted on. 5. The Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-04-0.u13762	We'll take it.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-04-0.u13763	It's part of the Law. 6th of the same committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-04-0.u13764	We'll take it.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-04-0.u13765	It becomes an integral part of the law. Seven. The Legislative Committee?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-04-0.u13766	We'll take it.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-04-0.u13767	It becomes an integral part of the law. 8th representative of Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-04-0.u13768	We don't accept. Same explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-04-0.u13769	I'm a colleague of Lesar's. That's right. Consumed. That's not a vote. 9th representative of Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-04-0.u13770	Same thing. Consumed, but we don't accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-04-0.u13771	No, that's not true. It's not the same amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-04-0.u13772	Oh, good. Same subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-04-0.u13773	No, I don't. I'm looking for an explanation why not this one? This has nothing to do with the deceased.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-04-0.u13774	It does, it does. No, we don't accept that amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-04-0.u13775	Are those special categories of deceased or something?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-04-0.u13776	It is. No, they're not special categories, they're ordinary, but we don't accept them either.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-04-0.u13777	They're not special categories? And who's up for that amendment? He's not accepted. The Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-04-0.u13778	We'll take it.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-04-0.u13779	10th accepted, component. 11. IDS's club?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-04-0.u13780	We don't accept it because we don't think a construction deadline is necessary because we've introduced an annual construction plan, and it has to write everything and it's an integral part of the solution.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-04-0.u13781	Here's to the IDS Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-04-0.u13782	Dear Mr. President, distinguished ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs. This proposal only provides for the obligation to set a time limit for the construction of the facility and infrastructure devices in the summary of the solution on the municipal contribution, and according to the current statement of the Law on the municipal economy, the time limit for the construction of the infrastructure facility was not excluded. Therefore, by setting the time limit for the construction of the facility and infrastructure devices, it shall be ensured to the obligation to pay the municipal contribution, the construction of the facility and the infrastructure devices within a specified time limit, which is of the utmost importance to determine whether the unit of local self-government has carried out its obligation and whether the obligor may after that seek the refund of the funds paid. In that sense, I think you should accept that. That's the first part of it. As regards the second part, it would avoid cases where the obligor pays a municipal contribution without its building particle being equipped within the appropriate period with facilities and facilities of the basic municipal infrastructure whose construction is financed from the municipal contribution. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-04-0.u13783	Thank you, comrade Poropat. Who's in favour of this amendment? He didn't get the necessary majority. 12. also Club of IDS Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-04-0.u13784	We don't accept, we don't accept. Here it is required that for family homes an act can be issued on the basis of which it can be built when the payment of the municipal contribution is not made. They also want family homes to build a communal contribution and there is no reason to rule them out.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-04-0.u13785	Here you go, my fellow Thieves.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-04-0.u13786	The proposed supplement excludes family homes from the obligation to pay for a municipal contribution, noting before issuing an act on the basis of which it can be built. We believe that this provision has justifications because it enables investors who build family homes and a more favourable position because it is assumed that these investors solve their housing problems by building a family house. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-04-0.u13787	Who's in favour of this amendment? He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 13 of the same Club of IDS Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-04-0.u13788	It is not accepted because the certificate is considered and the payment card is therefore not necessary.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-04-0.u13789	He's a friend of mine.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-04-0.u13790	I'll take it back then.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-04-0.u13791	Thank you. 13th Retired. 14. Zvonimir Mršić's representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-04-0.u13792	We don't accept. In fact, one building can't actually be connected to a municipal infrastructure by each apartment because there is only one attachment for one building. He can't. But every apartment can have its own, its own meter and they pay for the proportional part of the connection. So we can't accept it.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-04-0.u13793	Here you go, Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-04-0.u13794	Yeah. Madam Minister, you're right. So one, one building of 350 apartments will pay a fee for joining 5 thousand 350 kunas now as the maximum connection fee as well as the smallest house to be built in that city. It is not the same to bring water for a small house or bring water for a 350 - apartment building. Here, and here we bring, here we bring citizens into significant inequality because some citizens have to pay for the accession fee and elsewhere they de facto pay for the joint building. It's not just a code, it's not just a tenant, it's done in business towers, it's done in business towers where you can have a tower of don't know how much so business premises will pay, all business premises will pay... Part 5300 kuna. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] I think we're correcting a mistake here that's defined in the law because we're bringing into equality all those who join public water supply or gas supply and disposal. This is even more so in a drain where simply, where larger amounts of water are simply created. This has so far been very impractical and very unfair in the law because local self-government units have to provide a connection to the municipal infrastructure for these large buildings and can only charge 5300 or 10% of gross income for it. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-04-0.u13795	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get enough of the majority he needed. 15. The Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-04-0.u13796	We'll take it.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-04-0.u13797	It's part of the law. 16th of the same committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-04-0.u13798	We'll take it.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-04-0.u13799	It becomes an integral part of the Law. 17th of the same committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-04-0.u13800	We'll take it.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-04-0.u13801	It's part of the law. 18th of the same committee?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-04-0.u13802	We'll take it.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-04-0.u13803	It's an integral part of the Committee. 19th Representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-04-0.u13804	We'll take it.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-04-0.u13805	Thank you, Minister. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? My colleagues stay so this whole side doesn't stay empty. So let's stay and keep the whole side down, it's not good to see. Yeah. ... Thank you very much. [[Applause.]] I find that unanimously with 81 votes for the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Communist Economy in the text as proposed by the Proposer together with the amendments adopted. In accordance with the proposal of the Libra Club, I am voting for the next conclusion. Due to the importance of the problem of illegal construction, the Government of the Republic of Croatia undertakes to submit regular reports to the Croatian Parliament within no longer than 6 months of the created state in space. The same reports must include data on the functioning of competent inspection services, ministries, county and state administrations. Minister, I'm asking for a reading.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-04-0.u13806	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, this conclusion is not necessary because under the current law, we need to file a report on the state of the premises and we need to file a report on the work of the inspection. Reports are almost over, and you'll soon get out of this session in the Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-04-0.u13807	I'll put it to the vote, then? Who's in? No one. So he didn't pass. Let's go to: - Proposal for a decision to amend the Decision establishing the form of a representative card. The Proposer of the Decision is the Committee on Selection, Designation and Administrative Affairs. I would like the chairman of the Committee on Selection, Designation and Administrative Affairs of Mr Branimir Glavas to briefly explain the proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-04-0.u13809	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Your colleagues and colleagues are before you a proposal for a decision to amend the decision to determine the form of a representative card. At the previous session of the Parliament, however, when we were in negotiations with the company that was supposed to make these cards, we learned that the price of this card was approximately 100 thousand kuna, we decided to look for a cheaper variant for the Croatian Parliament to save, saved funds from the Budget. And we have come to a solution, but in order to make it happen, it is necessary to amend this Decision, to make one cosmetic change but necessary change in order to make these cards. The point is that it is necessary to amend Article 1 and delete the words that say they contain alternating holograms of the coat of arms of the Republic of Croatia and the letters of the Croatian Parliament. So it is inevitable and necessary to change, and also to assume that 100 thousand kuna would be saved for the production of these representation cards. So much, I think everything else is clear. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-04-0.u13810	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. Representative Pero Kovacevic please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-04-0.u13811	Just a little bit from the scene. I support this proposal, but we need to be more serious when we make proposals in the future. Once we bring to one session, we change immediately at another session. That could have happened before. But I warn you of the fact that in Article 20. The Rules of Procedure are said to be a representative at the end of the term of office and during the time he is required to return his representative's card. I support this intention that the MP has the right to have it as a memory, but we make sure that we don't bring regulations that are already... The opposite. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's all it's about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-04-0.u13812	Thank you. Anyone else? I'm closing the debate. The proposal for a decision to amend the decision establishing the form of the representative card is proposed by the Committee on Selection, Designation and Administrative Affairs. I am voting on the motion for a decision. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? I find that unanimously with 79 votes in favour, he made a decision to amend this decision.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-04-0.u13817	Dear Mr. President, honourable MPs and MPs before you is the decision to refer members of the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia to a peace mission in Haiti /MINUSTAH. A word on participation in peacekeeping missions and certainly one on how to contribute peace and security to the world. It is part of NATO's talks with NATO as part of implementing procedures and accession to NATO through a membership action plan. It is doubtless the priority of the foreign policy of the Republic of Croatia, related to membership with the European Union and NATO. In addition, the participation of UN peacekeeping operations by the Republic of Croatia takes up its share of responsibility for the security of the entire international community. So it contributes to the bid for a non-permanent member of the UN Security Council. The Ministry of Defence has announced its participation in the International Missions in its strategic documents. A national security strategy, and a defense strategy. Since the 99th year, the members of the armed forces have been on missions in Liberia, three, India and Pakisatn 5, Sierra Leone 10ero, Ethiopia Erritri 7mer and Western Sahara.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-04-0.u13818	Please, Secretary of State, just limit yourself to this proposal for Haiti. It's about an officer of the Croatian Army and one and only, so please, yes.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-04-0.u13819	We therefore propose a very important mandate for the Republic of Croatia to strengthen our international position in this way. It's about a psychologist who's supposed to be in the capital of Porto Prince with a special protective facility. The government is proposing that the parliament accept and make a decision in sending members of the armed forces.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-04-0.u13820	Thank you for understanding. On behalf of the HSP Club. The committees. Mr Ivan Jarnjak president of the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-04-0.u13821	The Committee on Internal Policy and National Security at its 14th session decided to support the unanimity of its decision to propose a decision to the Croatian Parliament to refer members of the armed forces to the Haiti Peace Mission, Minutas.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-04-0.u13822	I'm opening a debate. Dear Representative Tonci Tadic on behalf of the HSP Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-04-0.u13823	Dear Mr. President, let me and the gentlemen of counsel. To shorten the time by saying this from the bench, therefore, this decision to refer members of the armed forces to a peacekeeping mission in Haiti has one important element in it, and this is the fact that Croatia participates in the occupation forces in Haiti. In view of the total instability that has intervened since the time after the U.S. axis in Haiti in view of the general state of human rights, an international military intervening force, called the international transition force, has been created there. It consists of troops from all over the country, so Brazil, Chile, France, Canada, and the United States, all under US command. This is not a separate mission, therefore, it is a mission of full control of the situation in a country, and this can be done and will definitely be taken under the fourth Hague Convention that regulates the occupation of a country or the role of military occupation forces in a country. Croatia, even if it has only one member of its armed forces there and not the entire unit, becomes part of the occupation forces. The occupation forces, however, under the fourth Hague Convention, are responsible for the full state of things in the field. So not only for the general public order and peace, but also for all the business that stems from the failure of the state administration system and from the dysfunction of the democratic structure of the country. Because they're all actually regulated by the peace units that are here in the role of occupation forces. Which means that Croatia is also responsible for the supply of medicines and for the functioning of the health system, and for the functioning of education, and for the circulation of electricity and drinking water and, ultimately, for public order and peace. The question arises as to what is the strategic purpose of participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Haiti. What strategic interests of the Republic of Haiti there must be military presence with at least one man. But I repeat, with this one man, we're one co-agreed as if we were 10,000 or 10,000. Because we're part of the occupation forces. So that's what I'm asking here again as a question on behalf of HSPa. Because the Croatian military is constantly headed for peace missions we have nothing against them, but this is a very specific military mission that I repeat has no role of separation, but has the role of occupation, and can be subdued and will certainly be subdued by everything that it will do under the 4 Hague Convention, with all the risk that Croatia is responsible for the complete state of Haiti because it has its own army there and no one will care how many of our people were there, was it only one man or more of them. What's the strategic interest? In my opinion here and by my colleagues at the club HSPa, here is the only strategic interest that Croatia shares the responsibility that the United States currently has, with Brazil, Chile, France Canada. It's the only purpose. And that's to share someone else's responsibility, in a country that's on the other side of the planet with which we have no economic or political or cultural ties. Therefore, we will be very restrained in voting on this decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-04-0.u13824	Correction of the incorrect allegations by the esteemed representative of Neven Jurica.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-04-0.u13825	Thank you very much, Mr. President, I will be very brief because I should correct the incorrect assumption that this is about the occupation forces in Haiti. It's not about the occupation forces, it's about the forces of the United Nations and it's about a peace operation within the United Nations whose Croatia is a katative member and naturally and normally if we're a member of an association, the organization of what the United Nations is, that we participate in the activities that this organization has within the world. And the conflict within Haiti, as you well know, is their conflict within which the United Nations forces are trying to keep under control, or peace is being tried in Haiti. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-04-0.u13826	Honored representative Krešimir Cosic on behalf of the HDZA club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-04-0.u13827	Well, Mr. President, for a short while, I'll be very concise. It is not disputed that Croatia should be part of the global system of security Croatia needs to assume part of its obligations in the international community. Minimize the escalation of conflict, in all areas. And according to this, Croatian officers of soldiers are located in different places. What's important is what I'd like to show this opportunity. Today, almost 70 Croatian officers, officers in various pension operations, are on the lookout for this moment. The risk of these peace operations is not low, and therefore I suggest that this eproblem from the safety aspect of Croatian officers, which is related to various issues of their training, time of preparation, selection, organisational structure, once we find more time and discuss it. And I would say in the end, and a proper law that will regulate standards and criteria for the participation of members of the Armed Forces in peace operations. To minimise possible negative political but security consequences on their individual but also on our common level. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-04-0.u13828	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. And secondly, the Proposal for a Decision to refer members of the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia to the Peace Mission in Haiti. It also requires a two-thirds majority vote by all MPs. Who's in favour of the motion for this decision? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? I find that with 104 votes, 11 against and 1 abstentions, the proposed decision has been made. Thank you very much. We're done voting. We'll continue at 12 o'clock.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-04-0.u13833	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. Proposals for a resolution of the election of a member of the Croatian Parliament Legislative Committee. The selection and appointment committee proposes that a member of the Croatian Parliament's Legislative Committee be dismissed, Mr Darko Shantic, and that Mr Nikola Vuljanic be elected as a member of the Croatian Parliament's Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-04-0.u13834	I'm opening a debate. Who's to propose this decision after the debate if he has it. There isn't. Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-04-0.u13835	Proposal for a decision on the resolution and election of a member of the Justice Committee of the Croatian Parliament. The Committee proposes that Es be resolved by a member of the Croatian Parliament's Justice Committee. The Committee proposes that a member of the Board of Justice of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Darko Shantic, be dismissed and that Nikola Vuljanic be elected as a member of the Committee for Justice of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-04-0.u13836	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing up. Who's in? Thank you. And here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-04-0.u13837	The Committee proposes that a decision be taken on the selection of members of the board of tourism of the Croatian Parliament. Accordingly, it is proposed to elect Mr Jaksa Marasovic as a member of the Croatian Parliament's Tourism Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-04-0.u13838	I'm opening a debate. Inferring who's in favour? Against? I find that a decision has been reached unanimously, as have these previous ones.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-04-0.u13839	The Committee proposes a decision to resolve the election of a member of the Committee on Gender Equality of the Croatian Parliament. From the instructions of the decision, we continue to resolve the member of the Committee on Gender Equality of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Dr. Dujomir Marasovioć and Mr Marijan Bekavac is elected as a member of the Committee on Equality of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-04-0.u13840	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. Who's in? Thank you. It determines the decision made unanimously. You have something else.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-04-0.u13841	The Committee proposes to make a decision on the selection of a member of the Committee on Gender Equality of the Croatian Parliament and to elect Mr Jakša Marasovic as a member of the Committee on Equality of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-04-0.u13842	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I'm putting this decision to the vote. Who's in? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-04-0.u13843	That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-04-0.u13844	And I still have the same board of yours, a proposal for a decision to elect a member of the Financial Agency's Supervisory Board. Jesset for a member of the Supervisory Board of the Financial Agency from the ranks of parliamentary representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-04-0.u13845	They proposed to Ms. Nevenka Majdanic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-04-0.u13846	Thank you. I'm opening the debate. I'm gonna need you to close the argument. I am voting on a proposal for this decision. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Thank you. I find that this decision has been unanimously made Ladies and gentlemen, we are continuing to work at the 7th session of the Croatian Parliament. I warmly welcome you all. In order to facilitate benching, you are given the consolidated text of the agenda to continue the session. The first point we start with is: 1. Final draft interest law, emergency procedure, first and second reading of P.Z.E. No. 115; The Proposer of the Law is the Government. When establishing the agenda, we accepted the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of this Act. The emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committees on Law, Finance and the State Budget, the Economy, Development and Reconstruction and European Integration, the reports you received at the session. I ask the Secretary of State, Ministry of Finance, Ms. Martin Dalic, to further explain the proposal. Here you go.
