ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u7302	... Is this for number one? ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Before we cross, go ahead. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u7303	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, it is my duty to intervene at this time because in the first part of the working day a guide on the application of the Labour Act came to our benches. I'm not reacting to it as a former smoker, but as an expert in this area, and I have to say, there are many shortcomings and too many coincidences with the date of its release, today's date. It is not necessary to prescribe what the law has already prescribed in Article 63(3) and that article has prescribed a ban on smoking in working rooms and premises. Furthermore, working cabinets cannot be excluded from the smoking ban because they fall into the workplaces and I must say that the whole law is connoted in the function of non-smoking protection, not in the function of guessing smokers. Next, third. A terrace outside the Grand Hall because I have to be solid with my fellow smokers. The terrace outside the Grand Hall is not adequately decorated as a smoking area, since it is open space. I suggest that smoking is allowed to be allowed up to the editing of that space and some other space, in some other areas. Furthermore, it should be said that the law provides for a fine of 100 kuna for workers caught in work, in place, to smoke in a place where it is not allowed. These are the terrible punishments we're talking about. And lastly, for the monitoring and implementation of this leaflet, the watchman of the Croatian Parliament cannot be the president, vice-president of the Croatian Parliament, president and vice-president of the working bodies of the Croatian Parliament, president of the clubs of representatives and secretary of the Croatian Parliament. The guards just can't do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u7304	Thank you very much. Now, this is all out, outside of our Rules of Procedure. And now you're opening the debate, there's another one, and now we can... [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u7305	This is just in good faith...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u7306	That's...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u7307	..to do...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u7308	Okay, thanks for the good intentions, all that was nice and sweet, but now I don't know what Mr. Cain wants...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u7309	Now you'll hear. Also in the best possible intention, Mr. Vice President. It has never happened that the economic audit was discussed or discussed at the Grand Council of the Croatian Parliament without television cameras being included. Or that we were disabled, that the Croatian public was prevented from monitoring the debates on this agenda point. And therefore I ask you to take advantage of the authority of the President of the Parliament, Mr Shex, I do not know your or anyone else, our representative, and to try to pass on this appeal to Croatia. That they are required to carry that item of the agenda on good customs neatly.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u7310	Thank you very much. It's generally said everything in place. Of course we want our public to hear particularly important points of the agenda, and I will try first to pass it on to the President of the Parliament, and then I will personally advocate that your appeal be accepted. Here. Now, since Mr. Hrelja has brought all this out, and as spring approaches, the terrace can be more pleasant every day and until further solutions we can use the terrace, and when it gets cold, we will look for another space. I think that's a good solution.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u7311	My colleagues and colleagues continue with the session. According to the agenda, we're doing a vote today. First representative Racan on behalf of the SDP Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u7312	Mr. President, on behalf of the Club, I'm looking for a half-hour break for a serious incident that happened just before in the meeting of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system. As you requested Mr. President at the SDP Club's request. At that session of this Committee on the Agenda, opinion was given in accordance with Article 290. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament on the confiscation of the words to MP Stazic, on your part, presented him while he spoke regularly in the context of his debate. At the session, therefore, where a member of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system was discussed, and at the same time the chair of the Committee on Legislatives found it difficult to offend Trazic's representative by qualified him to be problematic and that he needed treatment. Which is too much, it's too much! The SDP club can't get over it. The bigger problem was the practice that you inauguration by taking away the word from the MP if you don't like what he's saying. While at the same time you and others who chair this, meetings of the Assembly of Other Representatives should possibly leave the topic on the agenda. This incident just before the Committee session was difficult, so I qualify him. I'm looking for a break to see what we can do next. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u7313	I, my colleague Racan, do not take away a word from anyone because I do not like his debate, but if it does not come out of the subject within the Rules of Procedure. Dear Representative Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u7314	Thank you very much, Mr. President, on behalf of the Croatian People's Party Club, I am also asking for half an hour's rest because this morning we had to give an opinion to the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system on what was yesterday in this assembly. The circumstances and manner of discussion and qualifications given by a member of the Committee against a parliamentary representative are far more serious violations of the Rules of Procedure and polite behaviour than what happened here yesterday and we believe that we must agree on our way to further participation in the work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u7315	Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, a respected representative of Boras.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u7316	Well, Mr. President, I'm referring to Article 209. The Rules of Procedure, Mr Racan asked for a break, completely misread the words I said on the Committee on the Constitution and Rules of Procedure. I spoke on two occasions then, and I made it clear that in the statements of Mr. Stazic we discussed in the Constitution, the Committee on the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure, the report of the State Auditor for 2002 and the replacement of the Director of the Employment Office has nothing to do with it. On the other hand, I said if someone brings it into the loop, it's insulting common sense, or it's the one for treatment, or I'm crazy. So that's a real interpretation, and that's what I said.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u7317	Representative Rožić on behalf of the HSP Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u7318	Thank you very much, Mr. President, on behalf of the HSP Club, I am also looking for a half-hour break in terms of what has been said so far on behalf of other clubs and it just shows how much it was needed, our proposal for a declaration of free expression of opinion that we will vote on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u7319	Comrade Tomcic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u7320	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'm joining these demands, and on behalf of the HSS Club, I'm also looking for a half-hour break.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u7321	A fellow Radosh.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u7322	On behalf of the Libre Club, I'm also looking for a half-hour break for the same reasons.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u7323	A fellow Czecho.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u7324	On behalf of the HSLS and DC Club, and we believe that circumstances need to be established, which is precisely said, although if treatment were to be discussed, many could be found in this regard. That's why I'm counting.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u7325	Here you go, buddy Baby.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u7326	On behalf of the club, on behalf of the HDZ Club, I'm looking for a five-minute break.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u7327	A fellow Milinović rectification of an incorrect quote to whom?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u7328	Well, the Honorable Representative is Racan, and I answered, and I answered on time.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u7329	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u7330	I answered at a time when the distinguished representative Racan spoke.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u7331	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u7332	Dear Representative Ivica Racan said that the president of the Croatian Parliament is taking away a word from whoever likes him or doesn't like him. And because of the Croatian public and because of Croatian television, which did not broadcast directly when spoken by the distinguished representative Stazic, it is true that President of the Parliament has warned the Honorable representative Stazic three times not to speak on the subject and on the agenda point, and then he took the matter away.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u7333	I'm setting a 30-minute break. Ladies and gentlemen, let's get back to work. Please, on behalf of the SDP Club, a respected representative, Mato Arlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u7335	... in a session of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System, an incident took place where our fellow member of the Committee on the Constitution, the chair of the Committee on Legislatives said: “Why do you defend a man who is troublesome and for treatment” by alluding to and referring to a fellow member of the Stazic, which, in our court, hardly offended fellow Stazic and violated the rules not only of the Rules of Procedure but also of polite conduct in, at the Committee's session and among the representatives and otherwise among the citizens. [[The speaker was subsequently turned on]] In the context of this respected colleague and colleague, the SDP Representatives Club appreciates that lately, more and more unequal criteria are in view of the business provisions and parliamentary practice on how to conduct a session with individual representatives, depending on who is running the session and on who is speaking and even from which side? We feel that such a practice that began slowly and snuck slowly into our home is not good and that it should certainly do everything in our power to change it. We, in particular, need to remind ourselves of the fact that critical opinion is one of the fundamental tools that... the funds available to the opposition in relation to the position and in relation to the topics under discussion. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] We also stress the fact that the position must be in the interest of the opposition with a critical opinion as much as possible to observe certain points of the agenda because they wanted us to admit it or not in an indirect way to warn and position on certain behaviours, actions or inactions that are not in the interest of the Republic of Croatia or in the interests of the nation or not in the interest of a specific case. For all these reasons, the SDP Representatives Club strongly opposes and condemns the stated statement by a fellow member on the one hand, proposes and requests that, on the other hand, an extended session of the Presidency of the Croatian Parliament be held together with the presidents of the Clubs of Representatives on how to conduct the session and, of course, the working bodies of the Assembly, and that, in this extended session, not only be discussed, take positions and on a uniform practice regarding the implementation of the Rules of Procedure not only if it is necessary for certain business provisions to be reviewed and, in this respect, to be completed and completed if necessary and if so assessed. Of course, if we could or wouldn't be in a position for the Presidency to accept this proposal, we don't have anything else left, and we don't think it's a good thing that we have to discuss it at Parliament as we do through a special point, but we will have to define ourselves then and for such a debate in such a situation as we are now in because it needs to be noted. These are the first more serious incidents that take place in connection with parliamentary practice on the one hand and on the other hand the right of MPs to speak in the Croatian Parliament as a representative body and the highest legislative authority. And in such a situation, it should be recalled that in addition to the points they have had before us, there are very serious times where such very sensitive and tangible political points will be discussed both national and state-owned interests of the Republic of Croatia and what will be when, in fact, a much more political language will be told whether or not to dispute and warn, take away the word and not only the representatives of the clubs, but also to remind the representatives of the Club of Representatives of the SDP has been taken away from this, in this home, that it has been tried to take away the word and other representatives of the clubs, for example, and yesterday, colleagues from Letici when he spoke on behalf of the Club of HSP Representatives. We must also say that we do not accept unsaved jokes or intrusions because we consider them too serious about this point, which happened this morning by a fellow Czechoko who later came forward, further offended a large majority of Croatian MPs by saying that there are more representatives who are for treatment. For this reason, we ask that the chairman of this statement, Mr. Chehok, present to Mr. Chehok an appropriate measure prescribed by the Rules of Procedure a reminder. And we especially thank the president of the Committee because we later learned, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system, since I was also a witness to this incident but we left the session, all the MPs of the opposition, and we later learned that by responding to what the MP said, he gave the same notice. Thank you for respecting the Rules of Procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u7336	... Dear Representative Lesar. [[The speaker was subsequently turned on]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u7337	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. At this morning's session of the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system, we were asked to give an opinion on whether yesterday's takeover of the words to Representative Stazic was in line with the Rules of Procedure or not? On the basis of Article 210, with the assessment that he had strayed from the subject under discussion in his debate. The only thing that was said by our members at this morning's meeting of the Committee was the claim that by discussing the State Audit report, Stazic had brought the findings and opinions directly to the head of the institution he was talking about. And nothing more. And nothing sharper, not using any heavy words or asking for a continuation of the conflict, even counterpart Arlovic offered a solution which I could call compromise. After that, my colleague Boras answered his word for the second time, and he really asked us, why are we defending or protecting a man who is in need of treatment? I couldn't understand in the first wave why that question was referred to us, what was it about? And we left the session. Later, we heard that the chairman, the board president, had issued a warning to his colleague Boras. A fellow Boras tried to justify his sentence fell into another mistake by misquoting his words at the Committee's session. I don't know why, and I expected at least an apology that might ease this plight. For this reason, I believe that the President of the Croatian Parliament and his colleagues should give Boras a warning, as well as a colleague of the Czech Republic, because his statement in order to explain the reason for the session's break is no less in that rank that took place at the Committee's session. And I believe that, immediately at the session of the Bureau of Parliament, a maximum effort should be made to reach agreement on how to conduct the sessions and debates because each parliamentary representative in the debate has 10 minutes. In those 10 minutes, a little more tolerance, patience and submission of different opinions will not harm Parliament's reputation in the Croatian public, will not bring democracy and parliamentaryism to light, as much as I think it will help. So it's about those ten minutes that the parliamentary representative can stand up and shut up if any debate can declare a distance from the topic. I therefore appeal to the President of the Parliament to try to reach an agreement at a session of the presidency with club presidents' clubs before the new session at the end of April. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u7338	Thank you. HSP's club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u7339	Dear President Seks, Ministers and Ministers, Cohesians and colleagues, I think that the situation is not a matter of some kind because we did not vote on the HSP Declaration on the free expression of the views of the beliefs and attitudes that we have endured and that debate was held in the late hours of the night, practically when wise owls begin to hunt mice, and it was practically very few people and watched. So I think we should just loosen the party discipline, because as far as we're concerned, no one was against that declaration. I came to this Assembly from the academic community where, according to the logic of things, the level of tolerance is somewhat higher and I noticed that there might be some trouble if we don't cultivate tolerance. You see how contagious she is is enough this incident and yet the distinguished professor and pedagogogogal Chehok in some way brings it to the situation. Not just that. It was a member of the Committee on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest Mr. Peter Maria Radelj, in today’s newspaper, also indirectly referred to a committee member’s suggestion in psychiatry. You need to know that in Croatian society it is the only communist service where the Niles were abuses of psychiatry and it is a great compliment to Croatian psychiatrists among whom there are few people about this hall. And in that sense, intercourse is one difficult thing to deal with means dealing with different beliefs, moods, ideological orientations, and because the general concept of intelligence did not cover tolerance as a difficult sociopsychological phenomenon, the concept of emotional intelligence was designed. I assure you when I came to the club HSPa they are all people younger than me much more experienced but I have seen that some so-and-so would react mah have a natural need if someone offends you to sort of take him out. In that sense, I think that this incident that happened to fellow Stazic and I have a great experience of dealing with rustic situations. I'm going to say what I said last night, and I'm going to sketch this wealth of pluralism of discriminatory practices in this House that is determined if you want age, gender, professions of ideological and party belongings. And we must learn that through this productive relationship of this vast rhetorical wealth, we come to the common good. So I'm going to graph these basic rhetorical strategies, as follows. There is one hyperpolymic dialectic mob that would show a tourist discourse practiced by many older SDP members and some older HDD members who were in the SDP. C.O.C. Then there's a conspirative dissident who's not aside from me, because we dissidents have been kind of a prognostic, we always get the feeling that someone's overpowering us, trying to keep an eye on us. There's a folk folk folk discourse based on rhetorical pranks and farts. There's no such thing in this assembly anymore, and that's a great achievement. There's a scientific educator who no longer belongs to a colleague of the Czech Republic, I'm talking about freedom of expression. There's Dr. Crescent. Ivo Josipovic, Dr Ivo Banac, Dr. Toci Tadic, Zlatko Kramarić, Miroslav Rožić and others. There is a medically diagonal therapeutic discourse, there is a healthy, very important discourse, and it is a pathetic patriotic discourse, which we serve in constant situations when a nation is threatened, when we are questioned by a country war, when we are being delivered to the Generals of The Hague. There is one infinitely valuable political discourse that serves, for example, party presidents, such as Mr. Zlatko Tomčić, Ivica Racan, Ante Djapic and others. So that's one fortune that soe can't bring to education. There is a mere tribune discourse with the closest respected representative Ivo Lončar and the most outstanding representatives of him were the late Stjepan Summanac and Josip Pankretic. So we have to cherish that wealth, and now I'm going to come back and then I'm going to end up being a colleague of yours. You should have given your word before I know you quit smoking, and it's a big contribution to both your personal health and your anti-smoking culture, but be good so. For the last time, I was talking about very valuable and sociological research into the structure of behavioral and quality of life in chickens. These researches are very important because the well-respected actor Zlatko Knights compared this assembly with Kokošinjca. I'll remind you of that research because chickens are also sort of verbal professionals. Studies have been conducted in traditional hens where they possess a hierarchy of power. The hierarchy of power where the chickens that are on the upper poles are in a privileged position they are in some ruling position, and by logic things have greater power, they are more difficult, they are better clucking and they have more rudimentary sex life. Chickens that are at lower limits are that it's some kind of opposition in chickens they're very complicated situations. However, and I end up, colleagues who think you're in a privileged position, you need to know if you let the chickens out of the hens into the open field and if they return to the henhouse and accidentally come to the upper poles, they start acting like they're in a ruling position. They lose their modesty, lose their critical attitude to themselves, and therefore humiliate those below them. And that's why the tolerance exercise exercises of emotional intelligence are very important. And I ask you very sincerely to support our declaration that we will discuss this morning or in the early afternoon hours. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u7340	The HSS Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u7341	Thank you, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. I'll try something more pragmatic than my colleague's predecessor. Because I think that here for freedom of speech we stand for in the Parliament, although some are declarative and some are real. We at HSS would just like to stand up for freedom of speech. However, the same rules of play apply to everyone. Of course, there's a premise to your crucial role as the one who presides here. And I think the worst example in our parliamentarian's work is when someone breaks up when, in speech, there's no reason for that. And when someone doesn't break up when there's a reason. It's a good example of my exposure yesterday when I was talking about the unnecessary political shift of career charming officials, and when I was working hard to actually change the assistants we inherited from the former system and that it cost us per man per model 6 plus 6 months about 100,000 kuna. Well, it's not hard to calculate 100 of these people the state costs 10 million kuna and at the same time we lose those who know, who we invested in, who specialize in and who did well. I'm interrupted, I'm not allowed to talk about it, and I just think it's a subject not to be talked about but to have to talk about here right now in Parliament. Another example also took place yesterday when respected parliamentary representatives Djakic and Lončar out of the correct agenda when we discussed the review of privatisation disqualified the HSS club by claiming that a member of the party, and Assistant Minister of Agriculture Mr. Josip Hral was acting on his duty despite being legally accused. The worst thing about that whole story is that they knew it was a lie. They were false and no one interrupted them. This is the tragedy, Mr. Chairman, that no one has taken their word from them, let alone warned by turning the Parliament into a lawsuit, by turning the Parliament into a courtroom, by disqualifying the individual, by disqualifying the party. And I assure you you caused quite a mental pain to Mr. Joseph Hral's family. In order for this to not happen in the future, I ask that you and those sitting here for you never allow such a discussion or even similar discussion again. As a small contribution from the HSS to this, I leave you for your archives a liberating verdict for Mr. Joseph Hral and ask that this topic never be on the agenda again. And I also ask you to discuss as part of an extended session of the Bureau of Parliament these topics that are important. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u7342	Thank you. Thank you very much. It's a club of representatives of libre. As long as they're clubs, there's no rectification. As the clubs speak, there's no correction to the quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u7343	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. On behalf of the Club LIBRE, we also condemn this incident that took place on the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system, and I think that this is an example of how MPs interacting without any political substrate, without any political content offending each other, or here it was Mr. Boras, and the representative who is offended by Mr. Stazic, which means that it is pure impatience, intolerance or something that is even worse. Absolutely if there is no political motive to possibly be offended by someone in the heat of political argument, then it is therefore naked and pure intolerance and of course it cannot be good. It can't be particularly good what happens at the level of the Croatian Parliament and I think it's good that this debate is being held here today, that in some way such tendencies and such behaviour, if we are able to start from the beginning, we get in the way. Therefore, on behalf of the club LIBRE, I condemn the conduct of Mr. Boras, but I also think it is a good opportunity to try at the very beginning of the work of the Croatian Parliament in this conference to see how we can and how we should work. I absolutely disagree with the practice that took place here, and yesterday, an opposition representative, speaking on behalf of the club, was interrupted by the president's assessment that he had gone beyond the scope of the topic. Two things should be said, that this did not happen in the previous meeting of the Croatian Parliament and the other thing that is the fact that it happened in this meeting only when the representatives of the opposition spoke. Does this mean that the chairman warns him in this sense only when he is not responding to what he is saying, when the political content is not in line with his political view, of course, but the fact is that in this meeting it was only when representatives of the Croatian opposition spoke to him on behalf of clubs, and in this sense I absolutely support the SDP representative's proposal, which was supported by the representatives of the HSS Club to discuss it at the extended Croatian Parliament presidency. If we're going to get into that phase that we're going to decide when someone speaking on behalf of the club came out of context, when he makes some comparisons when he's here yesterday, it seems to me that a representative of the HSP club was telling me, then I don't think there's any right way out. I'm absolutely against it. The representative, speaking on behalf of the club, has the right to carry out permanent comparisons, correlations, partly walk away from the topic itself to explain in such a way, that he would, of course, return to the subject and if it were the free will of the president, then it would not be a step forward of Croatian parliamentism but I am convinced of this step back. So we should discuss it anyway. As for these issues, these topics that have initiated this debate, I also condemn, of course, those who try to attract the attention of the public, who have offended not one MP but more representatives of the Croatian Parliament, and it is certain that in such a way we send a bad message to the Croatian public. We send a message to the Croatian public that all of us here who are chosen to do our job know only how to do so, one bad picture is sent about the Croatian political elite that has the task of leading this country, and then, of course, it is specifically sent and the message that other citizens should behave and what is equally important or even more important than that, by dealing with these issues, we are not dealing with the right questions, those issues for which we have been paid and for which citizens have chosen us. There's always one more important question in the background when such things happen and conflicts like this. Today it is a crucial issue for the future of the Republic of Croatia, and this is the position of Croatian agriculture in the future especially in the conditions of the European Union in which every country is actually trying to protect and protect its agriculture and instead of today the citizens of the Republic of Croatia hear what we have to say, representatives of the government, representatives of the opposition, those who have proposed that we discuss this and it is actually an even more difficult message and the more difficult consequence of these discussions. So I repeat on behalf of the Club LIBRE that I support the issues of the work of the Croatian Parliament, the ways that this means getting out of the topic, when it can be done eventually, and of course it should be used as little as possible to discuss it at the Presidency of the Croatian Parliament, so that if it is necessary to carry out a plenary debate in order to continue the practice that was good and to further improve it in this sense and not make it a step backwards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u7344	The club of the representatives of the HSLS DC, the respected representative of the Czechook.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u7345	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. Everyone who has invited me in any way because of my statement, I suggest you take a look at the phonogram. I didn't talk about it being one of the treatment advocates, and I didn't say that they were treatment agents, but I said that many could find themselves in that regard, given the fact that both in the past and in this case, it's not an individual and isolated case. I personally don't want to tell you which one, I said in the hallway, so you're crazy. Such statements, such throw-offs and, among other things, throwing one of our MPs, you're a thief, you're gonna end up in jail and other throw-offs are always there. Let's admit it to ourselves and admit it to the Croatian public. We constantly throw each other, insult each other, so I was just looking for a break and said that many could find each other in those words and insults. Because insults, unfortunately, rain from all sides and not only here in the assembly but generally in the public space, mainly in the area of political debate. So, I didn't mean what my fellow MPs say, he threw Mr. Boras to Mr. Stazić rather than the contrary, and I wanted to bet that such practices would no longer exist and that they would not even throw themselves away. However, from the point of view of the virtue of tolerance as a civic virtue, whether it is said in the session of the Committee on the Constitution or said in the hallway. But the fact is that we keep throwing each other away, that as soon as we get out of the hall, you'll be waiting for a few MPs who don't agree with you or think the opposite of you and who will throw you a few insults. Therefore, since the feeling of insult is otherwise subjective, I apologize if someone felt offended by what I said, that many might find themselves in the same practice. I mean it. Not to mention the ex-consumption. Likewise, gentlemen, I must warn you, you who today have such a strong sense of dignity, gentlemen of libre, let's say. You had a health minister who said he didn't want to hire a fat woman who has 100 kilos because that's what it would look like in the office and who said that doctors object because having sex with nurses is sexual therapy. Mr. Prime Minister, that's what Vlahusic said, you didn't call him to account. Yeah, yeah, that, we all remember what the former health minister was saying. So, then... At the time, we did not have a sense of civil weakness and a keen hearing of dignity, not just one person but many. [[Applause.]] Today we do, and I think this is for every conviction if it's true what Mr. Boras said, I think he should apologize. I always advocate as a member of the HSLS, as president of the party, as parliamentary representative for the civil virtue of tolerance. We must apologize even when we think that someone is just subjective insult, that we did nothing if we used an excessive word or a word that could be misunderstood. That's the first one. Secondly, I think, ladies and gentlemen, this is a great opportunity to introduce in the Croatian Parliament and in our political life a whole new mechanism that otherwise exists on the occasion of each employment. All our citizens, whether they are porters, foresters, doctors, teachers, must undergo medical examinations. I'm asking you, ladies and gentlemen, why, excuse me, which is why I'm not, I'm not talking about any psychiatric examination, I'm talking about a full medical examination. After all, the Minister of Health now announces and guarantees that we will have free checks. I think it would be good, not talking about this case, so I don't think about this right now, but I think it would be wise in the future and it would be appropriate if all our citizens had to go through a medical examination, that all MPs would do the same. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u7346	Representatives' Club of the Independent Democratic Serb Party First the clubs will talk and then a colleague of Rados [[Employment: Injury of the Rules of Procedure.]] Injury of the Rules of Procedure. [[Intruder: This is a new practice.]] Well, did we gentlemen agree to be here, to present their views to the clubs? ... Yes, yes, here's your colleague, Radosh. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Here you go. ... Take it easy. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] And don't, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u7347	Mr. President, when a representative requests a breach of the Rules of Procedure, you must give it regardless when the one who spoke has finished. So, I think you've already tried to hurt the Rules of Procedure, you're fortunately not. But you hurt him when you didn't give a warning to Mr. Czecho who was saying...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u7348	What's my injury to the Rules of Procedure, fellow Radosh? What's the breach of the Rules of Procedure, which member is injured?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u7349	... [[The speaker is not on, you can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u7350	What article was injured?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u7351	The one who's talking about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u7352	Thank you very much. Have a seat.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u7353	You should have given a warning...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u7354	Thank you very much. Have a seat. Comrade Pupovac, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u7355	Mr. President, Madam Deputy Prime Minister, colleagues and colleagues. If the only relevant language that we MPs can speak about each other is anatomically or zoologically, then it will be our best, as far as I'm concerned, that we don't speak at all. And on the other hand, if we're going to discuss this kind of thing that's clearly inadmissible in the House, at least as far as I'm concerned, we're going to argue this much and this way, then I think we're showing this public that we're not able to discuss serious things and serious matters properly. If, in this House, the only relevant topics are such or such a relationship with The Hague, something which is the constitutional and legal obligation of this House which voted, if the only relevant issue is a matter for the European Union and something which is unquestionable national interest in Croatia and all other countries that are not within the European Union, although they are mutually offensive, then it will be best to go home. Because people certainly don't live on these things, but they think these things are being solved by the assumption. It is assumed that in this House, a dirty language is not allowed. It's supposed to be, as usual among the people who were brought up is not allowed. It is assumed that among the people who are politically serious and responsible in this country there will be no more languages to undermine and deepen ideological divisions within Croatia. As a representative of one of the national communities, of course, I would like to support the renewal of trust within Croatia on all issues, including interethnic levels, but I cannot help but notice that in this House, there is no saying or saying in any language or language of the body, there is a visible and sensitive ideological duplication and ideological intolerance that has nothing to do with party differences and party political opinion. And, Mr. President, if there's any need for this Parliament in terms of a culture of speaking then get out, then it's tied to it. And you should, you should take care of that. And if the statement of fellow Boras is on the line of that, on the medical line on the one hand, and on the other hand ideologically, then we need to take care of it and we need to get rid of it. And it is inadmissible.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u7356	HDZ representative club, honourary representative Luka Bebic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u7357	Mr. President, fellow MPs. Personally and as president of the HDZ Club, I would like to apologize to Mr Nenad Stazic, and I would like to ask that Mr Nenad Stazic be also apologized for his expressed, inappropriately spoken insult in, during and during the work of the Committee on the Constitution, the political system and the Rules of Procedure. I also expect other representatives to apologize more from all parties for the insults they have done in one way or another through the work of the plenary sessions and committees. I, myself, am still waiting for counsel Sobol's apology for the public defamation at my expense. And I also asked for a public apology from the club, its SDP club. Also, I pray the others, so let's say Mrs. Željko Antunović, who Jagodi Martincevic and Katarina Fuček said on the board that they were both short-minded. Also, the same Mrs. Antunovic here told the minister twice twice that she was lying, Minister Hebrang, which is also not an appropriate dictionary in this House. Why did I say it as chairman? Also, publicly on TV two days ago, Mr. Cacic said that Minister Calmeta was lying and smiled so well known in his style. Like Mr. Cacic, who told the board that he chaired in particular Mr. Markovanovic that he could not understand, because you are primitive. So these are all examples, which suggest that you need to look a little bit at yourself in the mirror, not just look at others. And here we have heard from Mr. Letica very momentarily explained ways that can be offended. So I'll take it, because there's a let's say raw and a little more subtle insult. So I'm going to make an example of Mr Letica, who at a first session of the Parliament, when he apologized to Mr. President of the Parliament for the slander he once made, repeated that slander here. It's one like this apologized, but he repeated what he said five, six years ago. The same Mr Letica at the meeting of this Parliament when he spoke of the public interest in watching and listening to our sessions said that he was called by a viewer and that some representative resembles Jajan. And then he added, and that's not the President of the Parliament. Now, what are we going to call this insult, in the style of Mr. Letica, but we can do the others too? The claim here is made that depending on who runs the sessions, individual chairpersons behave in relation to other members from other parties, MPs and the like. I've run a session a few times, and I'm asking someone to tell me, as soon as I've been privileged or distracted by another party agent in any way? For others, I don't know, I'm telling myself. With regard to Mr. HSS's claim made here, he said there was a claim here that one resident gentleman who was an assistant minister was legally accused. Well, that's what it was. He's not legally accused, he's convicted. And that's one big difference, and it's been waiting years to get rid of it, until now the Supreme Court has settled it. However, they are also traded here for those who have been initiated, so nothing has been proven, let alone condemned. So they were removed by the government, etc. So these are the facts. And here it is also public in front of TV cameras, and before this Parliament then Justice Minister Mrs. Marinovic, Anticevic-Marinovic, publicly accused Mr. Vcelik, who was also legally released, even in a strict procedure within his organisation of work, is not punished. And it wasn't Mrs. Anticevic who did it once, it was twice. To establish the material in public. So I've put out a few examples like this, and it could be more, when it wasn't appropriate for the Parliament, how individuals reacted, and how they insulted the greater or less subtle or in a more raw way, by individual representatives including President-in-Office of the Parliament several times. Here, during this session of the Parliament. So let me get this straight. I advocate that, like all of you, that tolerance and normal functioning and talks and arrangements take place in this House either internally or at sessions. To be tolerated to each other. And I repeat once more ad and personally, and otherwise I say, rather than some who claim to interfere with Mr. Stazic, etc. to interrupt, I do, I ask that he get a privileged position, that he always has the right to speak and ask questions even when it's not his turn. Here. I have, unlike all of these others, I advocate his one status, and I explained at one of the last sessions for what. Here, I stand for it. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u7358	I ask the chairman of the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system to brief on what happened at this session of the Committee on the Constitution.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u7359	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. We all heard what was on the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system. And I really must say, regardless of the context in which what is said is said, we absolutely do not approve, neither I nor any member of the board. The same moment I reacted, I gave a warning, and all my colleagues actually expressed their discontent with the performance that my colleague Boras had. After that, a group of colleagues left the board meeting, we had no quorum anymore, we broke up the work, but we will continue it today in the break. I'm just hoping that we'll behave in future tolerance, tolerance, and that in fact we'll all always think about that oath that we actually made. And that's that we'll be acting responsibly and consciously. Responsibility means that neither we insult anyone, that we are not angry at others' opinions, that we are not using such ugly words, that I will remind you that one day for this pay phone and swearing is spoken, which is absolutely not correct, and it is not right. But there is one thing that is, however, compared to all the differences that have been, I think that everyone was right in this assembly to say everything they wanted, very often if we analyze the work very often, we can see that under the injuries of the Rules of Procedure it is a different opinion and things like that. On behalf of the Committee on the Constitution, I, too, apologize to my fellow Stazic, I am sorry that this has happened. I reacted in accordance with the Rules of Procedure as I could, and I hope it never happens again. and I appeal, here I am the first term of office in this House, I appeal really to deal with the points of the agenda, and even in our speeches what was today on the Committee on the Constitution and said, that I am really sticking to the subject because if we step out of the topic to make it more clear, it is fine, however, if this becomes a major part of our discussion, we really need to respect and give the legitimacy of the President-in-Office to react. Thank you very much. I think we're gonna settle this in the best of spirits and we're gonna continue this session and our colleagues are gonna be back in a break and I hope this doesn't happen again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u7360	My colleague Boras, I beg your pardon.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u7361	Well, Mr. President, if my apology will contribute to a greater tolerance, if it will contribute to the minor demeaning of others, if it will contribute to a minor deviation from the usual behaviour in this House, I apologize to Mr. Stazic. But I also have the right to seek or to expect an apology for any insults that have not been accepted in such a way as this, which was spoken of by Mr. Luka Bebic. Here's another one, Mr. Stazic. My apologies.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u7362	My colleagues and colleagues, colleagues and colleagues, my colleague Stazic, please be my guest.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u7363	Mr. President, I accept these apologies that I've been given. I think as the president, former President Tomcic often used to say an apology is always a good way to get over the problem, and I hope that this debate too will contribute to the greater tolerance of the work of this Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u7364	Thank you very much. My colleagues and colleagues here today have discussed several interlinked but thematic content of the groupings. One is the application of the Rules of Procedure, as it is the business order of the Croatian Parliament. Each chairman, I as president of the Croatian Parliament and vice-presidents who chair him are obliged to stick to it. The Rules of Procedure are clear to one extent, but in its application he leaves a free interpretation of the one chairing the session of the Croatian Parliament. The Rules of Procedure say, Article 210: “The speaker can only talk about the subject under the established agenda. If the speaker moves away from this agenda topic, the chairman will warn him to stick to the agenda. If he does not hold the agenda after the second call, he will be deprived of his word." This is the order of the Rules of Procedure, which states in Article 214 that the representative should be given a warning if he does not hold the topic under discussion in his speech. What is in practical application holding the topic under discussion? This is a factual question “questio facts” which left it to the chairman to decide. It may have an assessment that a representative or representative is moving away from the agenda theme or that he has remained within the agenda theme. The Rules of Procedure finds a solution. If the President holds that the representative is not holding the topic, that he has gone beyond the topic then on the proposal of that representative who holds that he is, that he is chaired by the incorrect application of the Rules of Procedure, that he has also warned him and that he has taken away his word, he is asking for the opinion of the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system on which the Parliament decides without debate. And it is obvious that at this stage of the construction and addition of the Rules of Procedure we must find a solution all together in which application will be made, because it is certain that a provision is necessary for each of us to stick to the subject so that we cannot talk about a tenth subject, but a solution should be found which means applying that provision to stick to the subject. For this reason, I welcome and support and will call for the meeting of the Presidency with the presidents of all clubs and parties in accordance with Article 37. The Rules of Procedure where the Bureau discusses all important issues for the work of the Parliament, and this is an important question from, for the work of the Parliament. Second, as regards what is happening and the discussions and relations that are taking place on committees, it is in the direct competence of the Committee presidents and the Committee in accordance with Article 55. The rules of procedure shall also apply to the provision of 213, except for one part. Therefore, if a member of the Committee insults another member of the Committee, similar to the chair of the Committee, is required, the Committee shall have the power to give a strict warning measure. It's in a specific case here and done. Let's not take the atmosphere and the debates and what's going on on the committees to the plenary session of the Parliament. This is part of the Committee because otherwise, the Assembly should discuss any incident at the plenary session and if someone gets hurt, insult it to remain in the Committee’s section. But I think we should go to this and the amendments to the Rules of Procedure that are being prepared, but until it's still changed that at this joint session of the Presidency and with the presidents of parties and clubs, this key topic is to stick to the topic, which means getting out of the topic. To lay down some of the rules of the game because neither I want to be, to act on volunteerism nor anyone who presides from the Vice-President and Vice-President of the Parliament, but when that is the case, when it is left to the chairman's judgment to assess whether the subject or not is the subject we will always be in these situations. I appeal that we find the presidency and president of the clubs a solution to the debate both on the Rules of Procedure and on the amendment of the Rules of Procedure in this session. I ask you now to move on to the execution of our basic task, which is today's vote on the proposal, on the debated agenda points. Let's take it in a row.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9242	Ladies and gentlemen, we will proceed with the session's work. It is next – (a) Report on the work of the State Audit Office for 2003, (b) Report on audits carried out for 2002, (c) Report on audits carried out for 2002 – Special Part – Official Secret Please, Mr Kovacevic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9243	Mr. President, on behalf of the HSP Club, we're looking for an official explanation of what happened yesterday in the assembly that journalists are distant and what it is, whether it's a blow to freedom of the media. What exactly happened? Because of the fact, because we know all these reporters, photographers, and we hear they're in an inappropriate way away from the assembly. You as president if that's the case, please, before you start, just explain what it was.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9244	No one is far from the assembly but at the beginning of the session I asked that the photographers before the beginning of the session and after the session as usual after they had finished their work, no longer film in the assembly. That's all. ... No one's far away. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] The session starts on time. Everyone should do their part of the work they have and the session should begin. Since the 2002 report on the audits carried out is a special section marked as an official secret, they should first vote on the proposal from the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security, which proposed to remove the designation of secrecy from the audit reports, that particular part of the official secret proposed by the Committee as before where the official secret was downloaded. So I am voting on the proposal of the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security to remove the official secret from the State Audit Office's report – a special part. Who's in favour of this proposal? Thank you very much. Against? Restraint? I find it unanimous with 86 votes for the committee's accepted proposal. In accordance with Article 11. The State Audit Act, the State Audit Office, submitted those reports. The materials for points (a) and (b) you have received in boxes, and the material for point (c) from which we have just downloaded the designation of the official secret you have received in person. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, the Committee on Labour, Social Policy and Health, the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security, which you received at the session. I would like Chief State Auditor Sima Krasic to further explain the proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9245	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Before you is the report on the work of the State Audit Office for 2003, Report on audits carried out for 2002 covering the period from October 2002 to September 2003. The reason is that the State Audit Act requires that the work report and the audits carried out be submitted once a year. The deadlines for submitting the report are prescribed by law and are related to the financial statements of the audited entities. As the audit covers entities operating according to the accounting system of the budget, non-profit and profit organisations, the deadlines for submitting financial reports are also different. Depending on the type of entities, financial reports shall be submitted by the end of January for the budget and budget beneficiaries, by the end of February for non-profit organisations and by the end of April or June for profitable companies. Before I move on to the presentation of the reports themselves, given that this is a work report, allow me to say a few words about the State Audit Office, its powers, structure, mode of work, employees, making and delivering the report, and the relationship with the audited entities and other bodies, as well as the tasks placed in the jurisdiction of our office. This year's gonna be the tenth anniversary of the office, so we're gonna be in the fall. The office started at the end of 94, organised through the central office and 20 district offices in the county headquarters. During the first few years, the work of the office, together with the audit as a basic job, worked on its structure and the employment and training of employees, since no state auditor had been present until then. In the last two years, other than the jobs given to him in the jurisdiction of the State Audit Act, he also performs audit, conversion and privatisation operations. During the reporting period, of the planned 301 employees, 276 of which 233 employees were employed, or 84%, and 224 were authorised state auditors. In the last year, the office has left six auditors, and these days two others are leaving. By adopting the Law on the Revision of Conversion and Privatisation in May 2001, certain activities focus on new jobs. In the framework of regular audits, what is prescribed as an annual commitment under the Law on State Audit, namely: State budget, ministries, institutions and extra-financial and budgetary funds, as well as units of local and regional self-government. This includes 611 entities on which this report was submitted. The report is submitted to the Croatian Assembly every six months for the conversion and privatisation audits carried out, so that there is now one report on the audits carried out on this agenda. According to the State Audit Act, current and capital expenditure financed from the state budget, external funds or institutions and from the budget at the level of local units are included. The audit during the examination of documents, reports, internal control systems and audits shall determine whether the financial reports demonstrate the true financial position and the results of the financial activity in accordance with the accepted accounting principles. This is also the process of examining financial transactions in terms of legal use of funds, and also includes assessing economic performance as an effective achievement of the objectives of specific programmes. The audits shall be carried out in accordance with international audit standards applied by state audit institutions for the uniformity of performance of operations. In accordance with these audit standards, teams shall be carried out to ensure the high expertise and quality of the audit procedures. During 2003, the Strategic Plan for Office Development was also adopted, which represents a long-term document of planned and systematic development and improvements of the State Audit Office. The plan is in line with the standards of the European Union and accepted by the representatives of the sigmas who were in our office in 2002 for the sake of the alignment and way of working of the office. A single programme and work plan shall be adopted to ensure better organisation and implementation of individual audits, as well as a more complete use of working time and expertise and the capacity of the auditor. The audits carried out shall be drawn up a report with an opinion on the business and financial statements of the audited entity to which the legal representative is entitled to demonstrate and clarify certain facts. This observation is being incorporated into the report and becomes an integral part of it. In order to carry out audit operations, it is continued with further informing the office, so that the State audit is available to the up-to-date databases of the audited entities and on their basic financial reports. It is also possible to access all the databases necessary to carry out the revision of conversion and privatisation. In 2003, the state audit entered the CARDS programme, received technical improvements, the equipment of the office of 400,000 euros, and a million and 600 thousand will go to training and training programmes between some of the countries of the European Union and the State Audit Office. Co-operation continues and develops with many of the top audit institutions within the European Association and international association as well as bilateral cooperation with countries that have related audit systems. This not only improves the quality of the Office's work but contributes to further developing international relations with state audits. Allow me, after these framework data on the Office, to present the basic data and findings on the audits carried out during 2003 relating to 2002. In the reporting period, 611 entities were audited, of which 568 local units, state budget, 37 beneficiaries of budget and other funds, including institutions, i.e. funds and 5 other entities. Reports made by auditors have about 8 and a half thousand pages. They were all delivered to the responsible persons of the audited entities, councils and local units so that certain measures could be taken to remove irregularities where they were observed. The report on the audits carried out has been cut short, it contains about a thousand and some pages, and in the opening part a legal basis for financing public needs has been clarified. A further brief review of the audit findings in general and the state budget and its users, ministries, individual offices, institutions and funds at the state level has been processed. Since 2002, funds for health insurance, pension insurance and the Employment Service have for the first time become part of the state budget. At the same time, a brief review of the county, towns and municipalities' audit findings is also given. The Special Report was made up of audits carried out by the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs for the reasons of the particularity of the structure and their business, which we are also discussing today. The short summary of the audits on the operation of all units of local self-government and administrations and are attached to this Report so that they can learn about their way of doing business. Data collected during the audit are official secret until the report is delivered to the Croatian Assembly and at local level representative bodies when they become available to the public. Full reports and all other data are also available to all interested in the premises of the State Audit Office as well as on the website of our Office. The Law on State Audit and International Standards established the basic tasks of the State Audit, which is objectively to establish the facts and to give orders on how to remove certain irregularities and report to the Croatian Parliament and the public. This should be stressed that this is in line with the accepted international standards and guidelines of the European Union and with the audit practice of other countries. The audit procedures covered the total budget for 2002 amounting to €93.2 billion, with regard to the state budget, the City of Zagreb budget and other local units. Under these funds, the revenues of the state budget amounted to 80.2 billion kuna or 86.1%. The revenues of the City of Zagreb 4.3 billion or 4.6% while the revenues of all other local units amount to 8.7 billion kuna or 9.3%. The total budgets compared to the previous year are more than 16.9 billion kuna or 22.2%. The main reason for this increase is to show revenue from contributions to health, pension and employment under the State budget. Contribution to pension insurance from half of 2001 and contribution to health insurance and employment since the beginning of 2002 are revenue from the state budget. In 2002, a contribution to health insurance amounted to €11.5 billion. Contribution to pension insurance 12.5 billion kuna and to employment 1.1 billion. The expenditure of the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance amounted to $12.6 billion, and the shortfall of 1.1 billion was compensated from the state budget. The expenditure of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute has been shown at 21.8 billion kuna so that the disbursement of 9.3 billion was to be compensated from the state budget. For pension payments, €21.2 billion was allocated, i.e. almost twice as much as the funds collected from the contribution. In order to enable the timely payment of pensions, the state budget was seconded monthly to business banks. The contribution to employment was made in the amount of 1.1 billion kuna, and the Institute spent 1 billion kuna from which 93 million were left from the state budget and the other from its own, or transferred funds from earlier years. The revenues generated from privatisation are not shown in 2002 in the framework of the state budget but within the framework of two separate funds, and this is the Regional Development Fund of 501 million kuna and the Fund for Development and Employment worth 1.8 billion kuna. The revenues generated from privatisation through the funds mentioned are €2.3 billion and are largely related to the sale of the shares of individual banks. The revenues of the City of Zagreb and other units were also achieved at higher amounts than those of last year's 2.2 billion kuna or 20.4%. Because the local units took over by half 2001 certain funding obligations for primary and secondary education, health care and social care, which were provided in 2002 with additional funding from the state budget and increased shares in the income tax rate. When the budget revenues and receipts are added to the own revenues of the Institute and the privatisation funds made in 2002 and recorded through the Regional Development Fund and the Fund for Development and Employment, as well as the revised funds of the Croatian highways and Croatian Roads of 5.9 billion kunas, the total audited funds are at that time 102.7 billion kuna or 58% of gross social product. The total audited funds in 2001 amounted to 96.3 billion, up 6.4 billion in 2002 and 6.6%, respectively. These are short data to see how much resources fall under the revision of the State Audit Office during the year. The following is a brief reference to the audit findings for 2002 and made on previous accounts. In 2002, there was a change in the accounting system of the budget. The principle of cash flow in the recognition of expenditure is abandoned and a modified accounting principle of the occurrence of events is introduced, i.e. recognition of the recording of expenditures and the time when they are incurred. A new accounting plan has also been adopted, the financial reporting system has been amended. There has also been changes in the planning, adoption and implementation system. All this led to certain regularity in the business of budgetary users who did not appear in previous periods because the accounting system of the budget applied over the last few years was fully accepted. In half of 2003, a new Budget Law was adopted, which included and normably set out all changes to the new accounting system. Certain implementing rules are still expected. Since the beginning of 2002, a new Public Procurement Act has been in place regarding the process of obtaining works, goods and services. For the sake of newspapers, the prescribed Law also increased the error of the beneficiaries of the appropriations compared to the previously revised period. Expressing the opinion of the State Audit Office on financial reports and the business of audited entities is a newspaper in the audit reports of budgetary users at national level. It is expressed in accordance with... audit standards and the usual practice of other top audit institutions. [[You don't understand.]] There are four types of opinions that differ unconditionally when done without irregularities. Where minor irregularities are identified which are not relevant for the operation of the entity in the event of significant infringements of the rules and irregularities in the business, an opinion shall be expressed with the reserve, i.e. an unfavourable opinion. And the last type of opinion is a abstention of the opinion given when there is insufficient data, i.e. when we do not have financial reports from which business and the situation of the audited entity could be determined. In the four audited entities, unconditional opinions have been expressed. Three opinions with a reserve, while all other audited entities have expressed conditional opinions. For example, certain failures such as incorrect recording of income and expenditure, for the purpose of applying the new accounting plan, incorrect presentation of data on financial reports and the like, which would not be relevant for overall business, were discussed with audited entities, certain instructions were given, agreed with the Ministry of Finance for clarification, and some irregularities were corrected during the audit. The most frequent irregularities identified by the 2002 audits relate to the list of liabilities and claims which have not always been completed or have not been harmonised, the actual accounting situation is. Financial reports, deadlines for the submission of financial reports shifted, reduced by a month, and certain entities could not adapt the way their reports were produced. Planning of budgetary revenues and receipts, and implementation of expenditure up to the planned amounts. The revenues were not always planned in real terms, expenditures and expenditures were executed above the plan, or not planned, and there was a step in relation to plans and budgets. Audition of expenditure in other positions. Their own revenues have not always been paid in favour of the state budget for which there is a legal obligation. Extraordinary can be asked by the Ministry of Finance to request these funds for certain programmes. Insufficient control of transferred or transferred funds. Significant funds shall be transferred to budgetary, non-financial users. It is not controlled by the way they were spent and there is no demand for reports of their spending, which was necessary in accordance with Article 38. Budget law. In the absence of compliance with the rules relating to public procurement, the most frequently refers to the appointment of the commission, the implementation of the procurement procedure, the implementation of the public procurement or the collection of offers, the tender documentation, the description of the subject-matter of the procurement, the identification and ability of the tenderer, the selection, and the assembly of the minutes and the conclusion of the contract. It's for the purchase of information equipment. The government's conclusion on the necessary consent of the Internationalisation Office has not always been respected. In the case of borrowing at local levels, irregularities occurred in a small number of local units in borrowing, since no consent was obtained for borrowing, the duty committed above the Law of the prescribed amount and the credits were settled other budgetary expenditures rather than for the purpose. The structure and conduct of internal surveillance. We have been repeating here for several years that internal surveillance has not been established, especially in smaller units of the local, that the Budget Law is intended to establish an internal audit, and that it will be established under the rules to be laid down by the finance minister. The rulebook hasn't been signed yet. But it's about making that rule. and I hope that when the internal audit in the public expenditure system works, then there will be much less irregularities, i.e. external audits, that the state audit will not carry out these tasks, but will do more efficiency audits, so that it will rely on an internal audit that will carry out these tasks during the year. There is also insufficient expertise which has been trained for these tasks, which is particularly evident at local levels. The budgetary surveillance and internal audit operations will clarify the implementing rules we hope to be adopted soon. The State Treasury, which has a supervisory function in one of its segments, functioned in early 2001 and further developed, while public debt transactions, part of the accounting of the state budget and foreign payment connections were not fully established. This project should therefore be completed fully in all parts as planned, and further work should be done on its improved and improved. The borrowing of the Republic of Croatia, the granting of guarantees, the foreign exchange account business is described in the section of the State budget report, and it is necessary to pay due attention to these segments with a view to removing certain irregularities. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. In this brief presentation, I sought to provide basic data on the work of the State Audit Office, on the work on the reports, on the audits we carried out for the previous year, and in short, I will now say in accordance with the State Audit Act what we intend to do during this reporting period, that is, in 2004. By 31 December 2004, complete operations on the revision of conversion and privatisation, i.e. within the legal time limit. To carry out regular audits of the business defined by the Law on State Audit and to focus specific activities on audits of effective spending of public funds. And continue to carry out the continuous education of the auditor. Co-operate with other authorities, professional and scientific institutions in the performance of tasks, especially in cases of taking over new jobs. Continue the ongoing process of modernising the information system, linking it to other public sector information systems at national and local levels. In the context of the process of integration of the Republic of Croatia into European integration and, above all, to adapt the way of work to the European Union, to implement international obligations and to seek to participate in joint projects using the knowledge of other recognised European and global state audits. In this respect, the strategic development plan adopted during 2003 as a long-term document, systematic and plan development. I have already noted that these days we accept the "twining program" that will take place in the State Audit Office between 20 and 30 months. The public independence of the Office's work must continue to be present in the business and audits carried out. The proof in this is also the publication of our reports on websites, or websites. the pages of the State Audit Office. We have met one of the basic principles of the work of the State Audit, which is the principle of the public. I thank you for your patience, and here I am with my associates, we will give all the explanations, or explain to your questions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9246	I'd like to thank the state's chief auditor. Do the work-body reporters want a word? The Committee on Finance and the State Budget. The chairman of the board, the Honorable representative of the Shima Rifle. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9247	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. This topic on the legality, success and way of spending on taxpayers' or state resources, of course, is most challenging to the public's interest. The Committee therefore considered this report as a parent body at a special session and adopted the following views. First, of course points 11 of the report on the work report on the implementation of the revision of the conversion and privatisation of the report, I apologize. At one session, we discussed the same, so. The report, first on the work of the State Audit Office for 2003, b) a report on the audits carried out for 2002 and under c) a report on audits carried out for 2002, bearing the designation of the official secret, but as can be mentioned in the end. At its 5th session on 25 March 2004, the Finance and State Budget Committee of the Croatian Parliament discussed reports submitted by the State Audit Office to the President of the Croatian Parliament on 16 January 2004. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament discussed the report in question as the home working body. In its opening statement of view, the State Audit Office’s representative stressed that the obligation to submit an annual report to the audits carried out and the report on the work of the State Audit Order was based on the provisions of Article 11. The State Audit Act. According to which the reports under consideration are submitted to the Croatian Assembly no later than 5 months after the deadline for drawing up the annual report as we have heard now in the introduction. The audits carried out for 2002 cover the state budget and 568 budgetary units of local and regional self-government, and 42 budgetary users or other entities. In the audit procedures, special attention has been given except for the determination of regularity and compliance with the legal provisions. Revision of the efficiency or performance of the business of audited entities in order to determine how public funds are used. The Committee discussed the following opinions, comments and proposals. The work of the State Audit Office has been praised because it fully expresses, i.e. it carries out its task, given that the audited entities operate with less and less irregularity each year and use resources for a more rational and thriftful way. Apparently, the state's a little bit of a setup. Subject reports are highly quality and professionally developed with a view to showing changes in certain legal acts that have had a direct impact on the behaviour and business of the audited entities. And it has been gradually warned of the observed irregularities in implementing the provisions of the Public Procurement Act. In particular in the part of the information equipment which should not be implemented without implementing the legal provisions of the ministry for which the information equipment is supplied. Apparently there was everything, and then one special note. After the discussion of the Committee on Finance, the state budget of the Croatian Parliament decided to unanimously submit the following conclusion to the Croatian Parliament. The report on the work of the State Audit Office for 2003, b) The report on audits carried out for 2002 and c) The report on audits carried out for 2002 – the official secret that we have downloaded today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9248	Thank you very much. The Committee on Labour, Social Policy and Health. Dear President, Representative Marko Turic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9249	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. The Committee on Labour, Social Policy and Health at the 5th session of the Committee held on 22 March 2004 discussed the report submitted by the State Audit Office to the President of the Croatian Parliament on 16 January 2004. The Committee discussed the reports as an interested working body in accordance with Article 140. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. After the opening statement of the applicant's representative, a debate was held on the parts of the report relating to the work of the Committee. At the beginning of the debate, attention was paid to the need for a timely report on the audits carried out during the year for the past year because, contrary to the debate on reports relating to the period from 2 years ago, there was almost no effect. The opinion and findings of the State Audit Office show that the financial reports show an objective, true view of the business. Given the observed failures in the business of the entities discussed by the Committee, it is noted that it is necessary to respect the provisions of the Public Procurement Act consistently, in particular the planning, implementation and monitoring of the purchases started on time with the timely preparation of the space for the installation of equipment. Otherwise, there is a reservation of budgetary resources remaining unused over a long period of time. After a brief discussion, the members of the Committee unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Assembly for adoption of the following conclusion: A, b and c are accepted, so the report on the work of the State Audit Office for 2003, the report on the audits carried out for 2002 and the report on audits carried out for 2002 – the official secret. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9250	Thank you. President of the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security. Ivan Jarnjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9251	Mr. President, colleagues and fellow MPs. The Committee on Internal Policy and National Security at the 7th session held on 25 March 2004 discussed the report on the audits carried out for 2002, the special part submitted to the Croatian Parliament by the State Audit Office, in an act of 16 January 2004. The 2002 report on audits carried out included the audit report on the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Interior, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The audit carried out shall cover the application of legal and other regulations, organisations and financial accounting operations for the period from 1 January to 31 December 2002, including, in particular, the review and verification of internal structures, accounting records and financial reports, financial accounts, financial operations, asset lists, liabilities and validation, internal control of income and receipt, and expenditure and expenditure. In its opening statement, the president explained the report submitted and made some of the observed shortcomings in the operations of the MUP and the MORH during that period. In particular, the shortcomings concerned the compliance of income and income, expenditure, expenditure, planned on the Ministry's financial plan with the amount of income and income, expenditure and expenditure on the planned state budget, and the application of the Public Procurement Act, as well as certain contracts concluded on the amounts more than is intended for this purpose, the purposes planned. In the business of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the State Audit Office has not identified the shortcomings. After the discussion, the Committee unanimously decided to propose a conclusion to the Croatian Parliament. A report on business audits carried out for 2002, a special part, is hereby adopted. And two. The report on the audits carried out for the operation in 2002, the specific part relating to the operations of the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Interior, shall be forwarded to the State's attorney for the competent treatment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9252	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the IDS Club, Honorable Representative Damir Cain, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9253	Dear Mr. President, esteemed gentlemen, representatives of the audit, distinguished gentlemen of the council. So unlike the conversion, from the revision, the conversion and the privatisation that the IDS keeps with the bad material, we believe that the state's audit here has only blessed the law... This review of the state authorities is certainly a useful material that is the most consistently depicting the functioning of the government in the Republic of Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Finally, the question is, what is power at all? We are representatives of the opposition, not in the past, but in this we are not going to be able to influence anything. However, it is not a problem, I dare say, which is the power concentrated in a group of governments, large capitals, media, and it is not even a problem that marginalises legitimately elected citizens' representatives, but the problem is the 1st problem in this country, which is the real power in bureaucracy that has stalled any change in the Republic of Croatia and I will talk about it most through this report. Even the church changes faster than the Croatian bureaucracy. I believe that this authority would do the most if it didn't change the laws from day to day, it means something becomes permanent. And if you'd try to deburoctrate society, society. But to sort of go through this material. First in 2002, page 8 of the state budget was 80.2 billion kuna. Budget 568 that county, which towns, which municipality was 8.6 billion kuna. So that's 9.3% while the city of Zagreb is 4.3 billion kuna or 4.3%. It already says that all power is somehow concentrated clearly in the state or in the city of Zagreb. It is important to mention, I do not know that mayors or our mayors do not have any administrative functions, that they are in no way, under quotes in some correlation with state authorities except that they have to beg for money for some local priorities or that when a minister arrives, they are photographed in his courtesy, but the authority to issue or not, let's say, one building permit is not on county, city officials but only public officials, the jurisdiction for tax cuts is not on county, but the city's only the authority of civil servants, and so on. But what this report is saying, and I'm not going to mention at all if any of the ministries got anything without competitions and anything like that because it happened clearly in 2002. This will happen in 2004, 2005. This was far greater before 2000. And nothing will happen to anyone clearly, but they want some poor woman in a small municipality in Istria or the Primorje-Goran County, Lici, Dalmatia and so on and then it offends because if she shoots herself, I don't know 100 million dollars in “Lenca” it's okay. If the Bank of Commerce is sold for 2 and a half billion kuna, and then the new owners only through the maturity of the bond over a period of 5.6 years will be added another 4 or 5 billion kuna, then nothing will happen to anyone, but if someone sets up a pipe to irrigate a playground without permission, then they must resign. And then it clearly hurts, it humiliates. It's kind of insulting. This revision or something like that, I think you should do an insight into what our red tape is responding to. In what time does she issue, for example, a building permit? I argue that 30% would be less illegal construction if bureaucracy were controlled and if it did its job for which the “note of bene” was disgracefully little paid. But what was I going to say? Page 11. 1996. The budget of the state was 34 billion kuna. I don't know if it's an extra budget fund or if it's a clean budget, and it's already 80.2 billion kuna in 2002. So the budget went up by 120%. The city of Zagreb has been increased by around 100% while other local self-governments have increased budgets during that period by 85%. So the least growing budgets of local self-government and then that's saying that the decentralisation processes that started in 2002 can't actually go into that right, as I would say, uh, intensity. I don't mean to say that the county, the cities, the municipalities need to lower the money, not the obligations. However, each other is clearly connected. But with the deberocracy, I think another real reform in this country should be decentralisation. Third. The very fact that public spending in 2002 was almost 60% of gross social product suggests that Croatia spends beyond the economic capacity of its economy, regardless of how our citizens continue to live worse than they deserve, and without attracting relevant capital, we will have a bad time and should understand that, apart from Zagreb, where all budgetary, non-profit money is concentrated, banking capital still has a gross social product above the republican space. Everything else is somewhere at the level of some imaginary notion of the Western Balkans, so according to the latest data from the Sisak-Moslavina County Chamber of Commerce, with $1045, there are only $140 gross products per capita larger than Kosovo. Lika-Senjska with 1550 dollars has a gross product like Bosnia. Ship-Posavia with 1650 U.S. dollars has only $50 more than Albania. Bjelovarko-Bilogorska with 2350 dollars per capital is somewhere at Serbia's level, which is said to be the data of the Chamber of Commerce, and it is clear that this should in some way be alarmed, alarmed the country as a whole. The third reform the government has to work on is either it will attract capital either, in Croatia, or Croatian citizens will follow that capital into the world. There's no third. Croatia unfortunately has capital especially at a time when the CNB will reduce the issue of loans due to fears of the debt crisis at the moment. In order for him to come, we need to clearly deburocratise the state. He must not, someone will say, be more favourable than domestic, more favourable position than domestic capital. To the side that the grumb of that capital was created in conversion, but one example would have to be our lait motive. For example, as it invests in Slovakia, Slovakia with which we have always loved to compare with the tall ones, which in 1.5 enter the European Union have almost all major multinational auto-industry companies. Best
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9254	Comrade Cain!
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9255	Yeah?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9256	Well, the subject is the report on the audits carried out. Report on the work of the State Audit Office.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9257	Based on example, I'm trying to simply speak in this, this report. Let me just have that comparative so I'll, I'll, I'll, I'll, I'll, I'll come back to the point as you say. Yeah. And now look, let me just mention it. Hyundai comes to Slovakia. It offers 700 million investment in EUR, while Slovakia gives EUR 100 million in cash, free land, roads renewed, railways. If someone, uh, offered it in Croatia in such a way, the government, prime minister, ministers, I don't know the mayors and so on. But let's go to these pages now. Total tax revenues in 2002 amounted to HRK 74.4 billion. Of these 74.4 billion kunas, urban and municipal taxes amounted to 690 million kunas, and taxes from 20 Croatian counties and in 2002 amounted to 130 million kunas. And it's really humiliating. If we keep in mind that Croatian say counties, so is the county of Istria, they do not have a single square metre of agricultural forest so-called counties. tourism land to act, operate in rented spaces then all this says that the county is still, under quotes of fiction. On the one hand, they have an obligation, as we can see, to manage this report to hospitals for, at an annual level of 180 million kuna, which is their annual total budget. And in that absurdity, I also think that in a different way, the revision should talk. Finally, what kind of county taxes are these? These are the ones on inheritance gifts, on road and motor vehicles, on boats, on machines for fun game. One word, nothing. As far as classical irregularities are concerned, they have been seen in all ministries except for those for European integration, education and sport, foreign affairs, that's page 56. It's mostly procurement without a public tender of over 200 thousand kuna. However, it cannot and must not only be the lowest price, because the lowest price does not always mean that the offer is the best. The fifth principle, I'll say or reform, I should be a public spending that will continue to grow while it can be controlled, but it won't be possible indefinitely because the external debt has reached alarming proportions. At the end of last year, it increased by 29%, and at the end of the year it was EUR 18.9 billion or $23.7 billion, and Croatia reached the border of high-indebted countries by all three common criteria, often mentioned by Governor Rohatinski. So debt ratio and gross social product ratio 80%, debt and net foreign exchange reserves of the central bank of 400% and so on or on page 121 per day 28. 4. In 2003, the total debt of the central state means domestic and external plus some guarantees amounted to 65.7 billion kuna. The country may not yet be under a break, but we are on a good track to surveil in the ambis for which no clear responsibility will be borne by either the former or the current government. But the fact that the budget is 74, 95 is 99.9 billion kuna, I don't know if they're here and these extra budget funds. So Croatian Institute of Health Insurance pensions and so on. Oh, yeah, for example. In 2003, it amounts to this figure of 78.4 billion kunas per year over 90 billion kn. So public spending. It's something that's unsustainable in the long term how dissatisfaction with wages, pensions, health care and so on. Since it is pathetic for all of us that the state can no longer be in debt as before, the decline and gross product will also fall, and it is time for the state to consider that everything that is not necessarily passed on clearly to it by decentralised powers from funds to local self-government. What falls within the realm of believe or not is the gifts of the World Bank. In the period from 95 to 2002, the World Bank, which was not the only gift, awarded Croatia 109.2 million kuna, from which only 50.3 million kunas were used by 2002, or 46% and still 50.6 million kunas were not used and 8.2 million kunas were even recovered. Why would I want to know, but the question is that the audit itself is also being challenged. We absolutely support the intention of the revision to establish records for all state-owned companies and to know in the end how they do business, where profits go, and that is important for Ina for Railways, for HEP and so on. Page 167, which is extremely relevant in the context of the new Hague indictments, mainly due to the ousting of the Croatian army in BiH. For intellectual services in 2002, commitments amounted to 17,5 million kuna. At the position I quote the Office for Cooperation with the International Court of Justice and the International Criminal Court are planning 9.7 million kuna funds, 12.2 million kuna has been spent, and in some ways someone will say and have been a peaceful Hague year. So here it continues to fund the defendants as it was until 2000 so it will be in 2004, and in the coming years, that only these commitments will increase and we can freely say that these commitments will already be 3.4 times higher this year compared to 2003. On page 172, 19.9 million kuna was spent on current donations to national minorities. And only this annual minority election that almost none of the minority members went to under quotes cost 20 million kn. I am saying this in the context of the need to change the work of the provision of this minority law which in some ways dares to say, and getoise the members of minorities. For me personally, perhaps the most interesting analysis was on page 261 to 263, which speaks of a missed concession over the Istrian ipilon. In the great activities that the former government has done to fix it. But clearly international contracts have power over the law, it was signed at the Elisha Palace in the presence of Mitteran and Tudjman, and now it is most important to complete the road under favourable conditions after 2002. All in all this revision is certainly one useful material, we didn't want to call anyone in IDS. Because the new government will act similarly and perhaps the most intriguing information for us coming from the Adriatic counties that at the end of 2001 the three shipyards were the exception for the Uljanik was the loss of 2.1 billion kuna, and only the takeover of loans and guarantees of shipbuilding exceed 2.8 billion kuna. How much did it cost?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9258	Thank you, colleague Caine. Time's up.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9259	It always starts with me later.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9260	Because half of you had an opening statement on something that wasn't a subject. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the respected representative Ivanka Roksandić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9261	Thank you, Mr. President, I would like to correct Mr. Cain's incorrect claim regarding the gross social product last year for Sisak Moslavina County. He presented a quote he read in an intellectual capital publication based on only 12 companies in Sisak Moslavina County. So he's not a real social product, these 12 companies aren't taken by state-owned public enterprises, and the structure of the economy right on our county is such that the basis is made up of state-owned enterprises. So he's really not right.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9262	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HSLSA DCa Club, respected representative Mate Brletić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9263	Mr. President of the Parliament, colleagues and fellow MPs. On behalf of the DCA HSS Club, I submit a report on the audits carried out. The State Audit Office has produced, in addition to the report in its work on the report on the audits carried out in 611 sub-cessions on as many as 1079 pages. And a report on work on the implementation and audits of conversion and privatisation carried out on another 44 pages or on a total of over 1140 pages. In both precise and international audit standards, and in accordance with the laws and regulations. With all the praise for the work done, I believe that it has been difficult for all MPs to overcome all this force of material, and it is even harder to give reviews that 15 minutes of discussion would subdue evaluations of the financial operations of the audited entities. Therefore, I will look more closely at the report on the audits carried out by the state budget and the state administration for 2002 and on the work reports and the audits carried out on the conversion and privatisation. If reports on the audits carried out by the state budget are grouped by types of opinions, then only 4 entities of the Ministry of European Integration, the Ministry of prose and sport, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Croatian Employment Office have done business without irregularities or with some minor irregularities that are not significant. And decisive to draw up financial reports. For the purposes of this Regulation, the following definitions shall apply: In the case of two entities of the Ministry of Maritime Affairs, Transport and Communications, as well as the Ministry of Science and Technology, an unnecessarily expressed opinion or opinion with a reserve. Since the State auditor could not formulate an opinion on financial reports for significant infringements of the rules of non-prudentiality in business and disagreement with certain items in financial reports. Since 7 audited entities operated without irregularities in the previous 2000s and in 2002. 4. It turns out that self-will administration, and the power of the government is puking with its length of behavior. In addition, the opinion of the State Auditor from another group stems from repeating similar or similar failures or irregularities observed in 2001. What is particularly worrying is that individual ministries and especially the Ministry of Finance did not show certain points of finding. During government reports on the implementation of the annual auction budget, the Democratic Centre warned of the non-compliance of this report with the State budget audit report, which is always a year behind the real picture of the financial operations of state authorities. In the economy, only revised reports can be discussed in society congregations, they can make valid decisions. This is how the Croatian Assembly discusses reports stating the failures and irregularities observed in the financial business of certain state bodies year by year, without having any insight into what they have done to remove the consequences and what they have done. The State Audit Office shall specify objective obstacles to the timely adoption of legal and other provisions which have caused certain delays in the delivery of financial documentation and non-compliance and the lack of direction of the responsible persons in the changes made. However, the audit opinions point out that in the area of financial discipline in state bodies, not enough has been done. The proposings and holders of legal and other rules are the same state bodies, so they cannot be excluded from the responsibility for the ineffective area of this regulation and even less from the obligation to apply them. In particular, illegal management of taxpayers' money in the purchase of equipment and construction of construction facilities is contrary to the Public Procurement Act, i.e. the Regulation on the procurement of goods, works and services of small value. In doing so, knowledge of irregularities in the procedure... does not come only from the report on audits carried out but from statements on the proceedings of the objection or appeal handled by the Ministry of Finance. In this respect, it is not possible to accept the alibi of the State Audit Office, which states that in 2002 irregularities in the procurement process were more than those in earlier years. Since the procurement and application regulations... are the first year, because the mandatory handling of the purchases has been legally regulated six years before, and they have not changed more significantly. Not entering the authority of the State Audit to assess that the reduction in public spending should be the aim and orientation of all those who have public funds to reduce expenditure, expenditure with the intention of reducing the deficits of the state budget and reducing the share of public spending in Croatia's gross domestic product. The justification of these objectives is clear, however, since the revision of the beneficiaries of the budget is repeated the assessment of the necessary contribution of the State Treasury, which has been organised since 1997. Let us hope that, according to the promise made by Minister Schuker, he will finally form the State Treasury in order to enable complete control and accounting monitoring in the country's accounting books as well as monitoring all financial transactions in the context of the State Treasury's single account, but also establish supervision of functions to carry out budgets. The audit opinion, with a review of the financial statements in the annual accounts and operations of the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2000, is devastating, in particular in the items relating to debt borrowing and state ownership over shares and shares, and how the last redistribution of the budget for 2002 and February 2003 was observed when more than 160 million kuna was re-arranged according to the Government's decision. Of course, in the light of such an audit opinion, it is not surprising that the government in 2004 encountered additional debts from the country of 6.5 and 8 billion kuna, respectively. Instead of explaining the justification of these additional government debts, we should have been given an explanation of the behaviour of responsible officials already undertaken by the 2002 audit report in order to remove the irregularities observed as these findings were discussed in state bodies already in the second quarter of 2003. For responsible persons who have not or have failed to do so, if they are not state officials and have been replaced by new elections, the shift will be attributed to rematch. On the other hand, such management of taxpayers' money is inadmissible and should be sanctioned. Finally, reports on work implementation and audits of conversion and privatisation were carried out. From mid-2001 to late November 2003, the audit covered 1269 companies and the report concerned concerns the review for the period June to November 2003. Reports submitted by the State Audit Office on the work on the implementation of audits and audits carried out, conversion and privatisation deserve all praise for the previous reports of committees and clubs. In this regard, the Democratic Centre is joining in its praises and thanks for its efforts to draw up this previous report. The conclusions carried out thoroughly, clearly and precisely presented data indicate a number of irregularities and criminal offences committed during conversion and privatisation. The justification for the adoption of the Law on Auditing, Conversion and Privatisation would be evidenced that all entities where the audit has identified irregularities with the criminal characteristics of commercial crime and infringements of the enforcement procedures of the State's attorney and the Ministry of Interior. We have no knowledge of what was done on the basis of a previous report containing the same conclusions. It could be assumed that the valuable capacities of the State Audit Office are spent on audit, conversion and privatisation operations without any effect on the punishment of those who have committed the irregularities observed. Such an unforgivable mistake would be not only because these irregularities would become obsolete but also an essential claim for justice. So if we exempt from considering entities where irregularities with criminal characteristics and characteristics of economic crime and violations are observed remains for the analysis of irregularities which are the consequences of objective circumstances and not only as a result of the time component in which they occurred, the situation of war, the destruction of war, the loss of... markets,... [[You don't understand.]] and not the connection of the entire state regions. [[You don't understand.]] For example, southern Croatia, eastern Slavonia with the rest of Croatia, but also a poor legislative solution and an economic solution that has been found, we can easily say the crisis situation. I repeat, we do not think it is important to analyse the causes in order to justify the irregularities observed, but to serve as a basis for amending certain legal solutions by taking measures so as not to repeat them in recent practice. Data on the reduction of core capital in the name of conversion compared to the time of the audit carried out in... Revised companies for 17% are constantly going on. [[You don't understand.]] In fact, the Croatian Privatisation Fund in its ownership reduces the value of the underlying capital to its market value in order to make it easier and faster to sell...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9264	Your Honor, counsellor, one second. You're talking...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9265	... a phenomenon, a large number of small shareholders broke contracts with the Croatian Privatisation Fund for the Rural Buying of Shares and the shares entered its portfolio. What are the reasons? The most important reason is that small shareholders...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9266	Mr. Representative, I'd like a moment of your attention. You've moved on to the next item of the agenda. For the last few minutes, you've been talking about item 12 of the agenda that's not on the agenda.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9267	The reduction in the number of employees in the audited companies by 60% alarming, but that practice is happening now. Why? It's just that social enterprises have been too busy... Each development or restructuring programme shall contain a programme for the care of extra employees. [[You don't understand.]] For the social programmes they have implemented through employment cannot be and has no interest in privatised companies. It is therefore necessary to establish and implement measures to provide or enable the re-employment of these employees. Now we come to a painful issue of bankruptcy and liquidation. In doing so, we remember rhetoric from the beginning of 2000 when the then government resisted all forces to force the administration to initiate bankruptcy proceedings under the threat of committing criminal proceedings against those who sought a way out of difficulty in various forms of resolution. The then government amnesty of shipyards and PICs, all other companies are required to launch bankruptcys that have been launched in 245 out of a total of 269 social enterprises. What are the reasons that the development programs have not been achieved? Each of these programmes should be analysed. Of course there was ignorance and mismanagement. There were also criminal and criminal offences, and there were objective reasons in a number of societies. The DC and HSLS Club shall accept all relevant reports of the State Audit Office. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9268	I thank the esteemed representative Brletić. Part of your presentation was really about the next item on the agenda. It is up to the SDP Club, distinguished representative Slavko Linic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9269	Mr. Chairman, Madam State Auditor, colleagues and colleagues. A review of the State Audit for 2002 where part of the ministry received an unconditional assessment, part along with, and most with conditional opinion shows, I would say, a 10-year hard work by the State Audit. And that's why the SDP Club wants first of all to give recognition to everyone headed by the state auditor for the job done over the last 10 years. I think the biggest result of the State Audit work is precisely this current state of affairs in the control of those who spend public income. And certainly if we were to compare their first year of review and this day that these are huge differences. Huge differences in the responsibilities of those who have the ability to spend funds. It is evident that at the moment most of the irregularities indicate the lack of education of people or state or local self-government officials, the slowness of their changes and acceptance of changes. Because it is evident that in 2002 there are several new legal solutions and there are immediate increases in irregularities, which means that both the state administration and the administration of local self-government are slow to accept changes, making mistakes, is mostly used to patterns. But it is evident that these are irregularities that can be removed, which can be greatly improved by education and control, and I expect that the 2003 revision, 4 will already show these improvements. I would say that with the State Audit over the past 10 years there has been a stronger presence of all levels of executive power, so from the government, the heads of state, ministers, that the results would probably be even higher. And apparently this hard work is still the biggest contribution from the State Audit. And what's a little bit of a concern, too, is that the internal controls that have been in place over the last two years, where we have them all over, especially in the units of local self-government, again the problem of needing, the weakness of the staff, their reports show that they are not following quality legal regulations and, I would say, ways of doing business. Therefore, it is evident that if we want to evaluate and guide, I would say, a message from these sessions then it should in some way all levels of the executive authority should do everything to try to resolve the identified irregularities in such a way as to turn to education staff, to simply turn and strengthen internal controls, is this a prerequisite that State audits in the next 10 years will not be alone and that then work in the control of public spending will be far, far more quality. What else can we conclude from this 2002 report? It is evident that we cannot continue to be satisfied with the decentralisation of funds. In 2002, it shows that it finally started with decentralisation, strengthening the role of local self-government and that by transferring powers to local self-government units in education, health and a small part of the social sector, we have more people who participate in the realisation of spending without increasing new taxes and that we also have more quality solutions. And in some ways, I would say that spending on funds is close to the citizens themselves and that at that moment the usefulness of all these decentralisations can be expected. It is evident that in these 3 months of the new government we have already heard some indications that centralised would happen again and I think that this State, the State Audit Report will help us to remember that whenever we have a topic of whether to approach further decentralisation or because of the weaknesses of some units of local self-government, that we must remember the reports at this point and remember that the results of that decentralisation are not satisfactory and that we must oppose any form of new centralised. What further points are there to the irregularities we can detect when we talk about the State Report? Irregularities are mostly in the planning domain, which means it's obviously insufficient personnel education. Is the simple planning and quality of planning is also the basis that we can control spending more strongly, that we can be more responsible in consumption and that the continuous apparition of the State Audit to this segment is something that every minister, every government, as well as the units of local self-government and their executive bodies, means that planning is an important segment in responsibility for spending funds. The improvements have been evident in 10 years, but still in that part of the most remarks, and I think that's what we have to try to do with education. What also appears as the most common irregularity is the problem of public procurement and it is obvious that personal influence, personal interests, lack of knowledge of regulations, attempts to avoid certain regulations suggest that changes to the common law still do not produce results. Irregularities are not as visible, powerful as they used to be with personal failures, personal interests, but are still present. If we still go into the details that the implementation of the Public Procurement Act, probably the reason why many investments are delayed, the delay in investment, are essentially unrealising the planned items, then the irrationality in the use of public income and the consumption of public revenues, then that is also what must be a signal to everyone in the lead positions that should simply be dealt with by the implementation of the Public Procurement Act, and that at that point many of the observations of the audits that were recorded in that part could be avoided. And, of course, it's alarming just finding that, although we have in many units local self-government and in state authorities internal control, it doesn't satisfy their quality of work, their education. This is exactly the State Audit report we're going to support shows that those responsible for spending funds are far, far more responsible. This report also shows that in the debate in the Croatian Parliament, these reports talk about those problems that exist in the administration and the activities of units of local self-government, there is less and less access to sensationalism, which means that we can expect even more quality work by state officials in the coming years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9270	I thank the esteemed representative Linic. To correct the incorrect allegations, distinguished representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9271	Mr. Vice President. It is not true that Mr. Reverend Linic's claim that irregularities are not so strong and large. I would like to specify only one example that denies it, which is that 4 million kunas were planned at the Split-Dalmatia Police Administration facility, and the contract was concluded on 6 million 969 kunas 129, 11 June. Well, I think it's huge resources and huge irregularities that have been committed. Or only if you think it's April 1st, so you don't have to appreciate it.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9272	Thank you. On behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Club, distinguished representative Katarina Fuček.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9273	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and fellow MPs. The report on the audits carried out for 2002 as well as the report on the work of the State Audit Office which we are now discussing and which are meeting the legal obligation to submit the report to the Croatian Parliament, the HDZ Club proposes to accept. The State Audition, i.e. the State Audit Office, is an independent and independent institution, according to the main state auditor, who began working in 1994, and for her work solely corresponds to the Parliament. Who and what is subject to the State Audit under the State Audit Act? These are government expenditures, financial reports and financial transactions of the state level, ministries, local and regional self-government, legal entities which are, in part or entirely, financed from the state budget, public undertakings and legal persons in the majority ownership of the state or units of local self-government, and all end-users of budgetary resources at all levels. What's being revised? Documents, reports, internal control and audit systems, accounting and financial procedures are audited, and for what? – to determine the truthfulness, presentation of financial reports and financial activities, to determine the legality of spending of public funds, and to determine the effectiveness and economy of achieving the objectives of individual programmes. For example, in order to determine the legality of the audits, it is certain that certain transactions or procedures comply with the rules, whether there is regular documentation and whether the money is spent in the context of the planned and similar procedures. And for example, to determine economics, whether a particular project has economic viability, whether there could have been any more steps for a more rational approach to spending funds and the like. Since mid-2001, the competence of the State Audit Office has been extended to the revision of conversion and privatisation and applies to all entities that have implemented the procedure under those regulations. Expansion of competence has affected the rapid teaming of offices in terms of increasing the number of professional staff, as the auditor must also have the highest level of knowledge and skills with a view to achieving independence, which he particularly needs when he brings an assessment of effectiveness. Normally, one part slowdown also has an impact on the slowdown of the business of the original jurisdiction. As mentioned in the introduction of the report on the audits carried out for 2002, the Budget Act is a basic document establishing the planning, adoption, enforcement, as well as the business of budgetary users. In 2003, the Budget Act was adopted, which regulated changes to the new accounting system, as pointed out, and the new accounting system is based on the principle of occurrence of events, which means that expenditure is recorded at the time of the start of the business change, and not as before on the principles of cash flow, based on the inflow of cash during the reporting period. The main reasons for this change are to achieve transparency, i.e. the desire to achieve transparency, which is needed to manage public expenditures, assets and public debt. Obligators of the application of the new accounting system are the state budget and units of local self-government, and their budgetary users with budgetary and extra-financial funds, health and public institutions. The audit finds that the law did not define budgetary users, but was arranged to make it the finance minister's regulation, which also means certain problems as it is mildly mentioned in the introduction of the report. The objective of the adoption of the new Budget Act is to achieve transparency, better insight and transparency of the spending of public funds and taxpayers' money and, as the report says, is not achieved, as the obligation of the Minister to adopt various regulations and sublegal acts makes the system of the budget even more non-transparent, i.e. more transparent. So the 2002 budget hasn't been transparent yet. The state budget is the basis and starting point of all other budgets and the use of public funds and I will therefore comment on the most characteristic irregularities mildly observed in its audit. The 93th Income and Receipt Report reads: In 2002, the central state budget showed no revenue from privatisation even though it was shown in the Development and Employment Fund and the Regional Development Fund. These funds are not visible in the budget, in total budgets, and therefore for 2 billion 298 million, 513 thousand, 692 kuna, the achievement of the 2002 budget was greater than that shown. The budget preparation sector shall not participate in the planning and neither shall it monitor the achievement of the budgetary revenues and the receipts be determined by the audit. On page 94, arrivals from dividends. Under the Law on the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Law on Commercial Companies, the Government makes specific decisions on the obligation to pay income from profits to the state budget. There were no such decisions in 2002 and certain companies paid part of the profits or proceeds from dividends. And the final report does not show who the payers are, what the payments apply to, and on what basis they are paid. In the sector for the preparation of the state budget, they explained that banks did not provide data. How these data were requested and whether they were ever requested and if the banks hadn't given them and I don't see why they wouldn't have given them. As a result, the revenues were not properly recorded. The Department of Economy of the Ministry of Finance, whose jurisdiction is owned by state-owned public undertakings, had to prepare more seriously information on the business of these companies and coordinate with the Government the decision-making of the necessary financial nature. And how it won't be when there's no record of these societies owned by the state, which is the basis of any other planning. We do not know how much revenue the state budget has given up because of this, because of its unpreparedness and not organisation. The Ministry had nothing to say about that part of the report. On page 96, proceeds from concession fees. Under the Treaty on concessions, concession contracts should be entered in the single register of the Ministry of Finance. From 1993 to the execution of the findings, no rules on the establishment of a concession register have been laid down. If the former HDZ government didn't do it, why didn't Racanov, who thus announced the correction of all irregularities and better public control and insight into state resources. It gave up 314 million 270 thousand, 765 kuna income from this base because 441 million 207 thousand kuna were planned under existing concession contracts and 126 million 936, 235.78 kuna were reached. The supervision of concessions is carried out by competent ministries, county or cities. And the agreed fees are the revenues of a state budget, county or city. As it was responsible for carrying out its responsibilities as a financial asset management if they did not care whether a government obligation under contract or not was paid to 314 million kuna and not to talk about tight interest that was not included in such funds. The ministry didn't show up on the report, either. There was nothing to say. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure incurred by the Commission in accordance with Article 21 of According to the Law on the Implementation of the State Budget, the obligation to pay its own revenue in the State budget was prescribed without the possibility of exemption, which was widely used by letters in 2002. the approval of the Ministry of Finance resulting in unrealistic planning from that base and 40% of the plan. Planning and implementation of budgetary expenditure and expenditure. The law on the implementation of the state budget stipulates that expenditure should not be carried out above what is of course planned. In the 101-page report, the procedures were characterised by the audit by the questionnaires because there was no provision for this. How more than the legal amount granted can be spent and where the liability is a mild word for disregarding the law. Liquid stock. The government was aware of the use of the current stock, but according to the current stock audit, expenditures were paid, which are neither urgent nor regulated, so that they could be paid out of the current stock but had to be charged to the positions of individual budget users. Loans. It is not the disputed two loans per 500 thousand kuna from liquid assets but not to conclude contracts or not to contract interest that is already disputed. Here's what we can say about borrowing, financing and payments. Receipts of funding. I quote the report: "These planned and achieved sizes result in these receipts being planned on a random basis or without real data on the possibilities of their achievement." Since there is no systematic record of repayments to the principal it is difficult to plan these receipts. Receipts from bonds are recorded at a different rate and are incorrectly recorded in receipts instead of in responsibilities or not even included in the records. In the same part of the report accompanying receipts from the bonds, the audits found that the Ministry of Finance had several foreign exchange accounts in the Reifeissen Bank that were used without an established record and there was not even an excerpt of individual transactions. The use of loans. Here's an example of irrational management. It has been established that the resources of the loans granted are not withdrawn by the agreed deadlines and the deadlines are extended and part of the loan is finally cancelled. In this way, large fees are paid for outstanding loans and for the cancelled part. At the same time, new loans are being sought and new tasks are being created for similar purposes. This is the conclusion of the revision in the part where the auditor is talking about the economics of individual procedures. And as I see the weather warning, I'm gonna hurry up a bit. A loan was also made to the Croatian Privatisation Fund of EUR 200 million where the return was partly returned by a breakthrough which was not shown in an adequate manner in business books. Here's something about bailed out. It refers to a 22m-euro guarantee issued for the Viktor Lenac Shipyard. A shipyard owned by a majority of states should not issue guarantees because it has no impact on its work, business and business decisions of administration and wages. She shouldn't, but she did, and she still did. On page 128, although the beneficiaries of guarantees did not meet their obligations under previously issued guarantees in some cases, the state took over, issued new guarantees, and between the guarantees given by PIKU Vrbovec, Croatian Railways and Željezari Split also found the repeat Viktor Lenac. Guarantees are issued to companies and administrations of state or part of state ownership, public undertakings or private companies at free evaluation. This certainly wasn't an easy decision by the government that must have taken care of both the social moment as well as, for example, the social one. employees, wishing to preserve individual economic operators who could contribute tomorrow to future development and be drivers of development and production, but yet a arbitrary decision has been made which proved to be problematic. It is also problematic to provide guarantees for loans used by certain companies to cover losses, a smaller number for investment projects rather than vice versa. I apologize, but I have a feeling my 20 minutes haven't been well measured. 15? 15 minutes? Then I will continue in the personal debate that I may conclude or perhaps allow Mr. Vice President to at least conclude, that at least I will conclude that the HDZ Club will accept this report or propose for acceptance because the State Audit has done a huge job and, in accordance with its powers, submitted a report to the Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9274	Thank you very much. I thank the honourable representative. This is a 15-minute debate, not a 20-minute debate. On behalf of the HSP Club, distinguished representative Tonči Tadic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9275	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. In the first place, I would like to thank the club of HSP representatives for the excellent material prepared by the State Audit, but I must also warn myself of what the HSP has been warning in this high house for years. The state audit imposes all new and new obligations, while at the same time reducing the number of employees year after year. They, as you know, have been given the obligation to revise privatisation with the same and even fewer employees and with fewer resources to be allocated for this additional task. So in this way we can't implement, let's be realistic about quality control of budget spending. The Croatian state spends almost half of its gross national product on the state or through the state budget and para-procedural funds almost half of the state budget, and of course it needs control. The Parliament itself of course cannot do so and there is exactly the place of state review to carry out control and to report this high house. However, when a person sees these reports and sees that only 276 people in the state’s audit are employed from the planned 301 employees, one wonders how such a relationship with them can carry out the quality of the work entrusted to them. We therefore thank again the state audit for the fact that, with the reduced number of employees, it has conducted such extensive research. I'd refer to a series of examples we've seen. My predecessors spoke of some of them. We will only warn of some who have especially startled us. So first of all, it's about the State Agency for Savings and Bank Rehabilitation. In this high house a year ago, on behalf of the Klub HSP, I asked the government to simply abolish the agency because it really is pointless for 90% of foreign-owned banks to have a state agency guaranteeing the survival of foreign banks. I just can't understand it. Neither I nor my colleagues at the club, but I'm going to take a series of pearls out of their business here. So business plans at the State Agency for Bank Rehabilitation are not brought before the start of the financial year. The plans were not worked out according to the positions of the calculation plan. The costs of managing the portfolio are planned in one single amount, so it is not possible to monitor their execution. The results achieved are significantly different from those planned. That it would happen at any firm, of course, that the director of that company would be removed and, of course, the board of directors would do anything to see what and how and how? When we talked about banks, we were just at the time apostrophe of the Dubrovica Banka case, so here the State Review of Wonder finds that the list of assets and liabilities acquired by the Dubrovnik Bank's recovery has not been published, and the list of shares, claims and liabilities taken over by the Privredna banka's recovery has also not been published on the basis of the relevant documentation. So the Bank Rehabilitation Agency itself doesn't behave in a way that could be an example of banks, doesn't take care of its obligations. It is also clear from this State Audit report that there are still a whole series of other business irregularities. For example, there is an entirely different recording of assets and liabilities acquired from banks, and the Agency is unable to even the way in which they are recorded, to establish quality analytical records in the business books of the Agency, and in the same way in most cases the assets, revenues and expenditures are not recorded in the accounts set out in the accounting plan. So all this together says that it's really unnecessary with this kind of business in a situation where 90% of banks in foreign property are held by this Agency. As for the Privatisation Fund, it is also a reflection of the situation in which we are, and this situation is such that despite years of oaths in the making of a new law, the new Privatisation Act today has not been made. And everything that's written here in this State Audit report I believe will write for both for and for the coming years. And so there will be ladies and gentlemen until the moment this high house brings, it will not pass a new Privatisation Act which will clearly determine the procedures of the Fund in the sale of the government portfolio. Therefore, there is no methodology for assessing the real value of shares and shares owned by the Fund. And there's the whole problem. All that is further derived from this conclusion that ultimately the Fund itself acknowledges is the result of the lack of law and full volunteerism in assessing the value of the company. We have this whole series of examples, therefore, of certain companies, a bankruptcy procedure has been opened and their claim has been reported in bankruptcy. Some claims have been turned into stakes. So again, it's full volunteerism, and it's about someone in the Fund deciding with coffee and juice, and now we're going to send this company out nicely for bankruptcy, and we're not going to. In one of the cases, too, the right to share has been agreed. In the case of the second right to real estate, and also from all the documents found by the State audit, it is not visible how the initial prices of shares and shares of companies were established, nor are criteria and criteria established to determine the selling price lower than the nominal price. So we knew all that together. I mean, it's no unusual information. But we are glad that the state review confirms that because this is all what HSPA has warned all these years, and this is how privatisation can't work, and we find it particularly strange when all this has happened in the term of that government that has sworn to change the law and do everything to make sure that this doesn't go uninhabited in the way that it was done in the term of the previous HDZ government. In the afternoon, we will have the opportunity to discuss the state privatisation review that was conducted while HDZ was in power. But this time the audit and the work of the fund itself clearly shows that the differences were not so dramatic. Therefore, there is no coincidence in the data of unclear assessment, unclear initial values, complete volunteerism in determining how to privatise the unknown criteria of unclear role records. As for the maritime transport ministry and the connection there is one part that I didn't know if I would cry if it would laugh is about it, be careful to quote that here's a word about the Ministry of Maritime Affairs, Transport and Telecommunications. In which he literally says the following. Information systems are limited possibilities not linked to each other and are not adapted for the preparation of reports at all levels of decision-making. The system is ineffective and ineffective to the Internet control system, which affects the reliability of the data shown in the financial reports. Therefore, the Ministry of Maritime Affairs, Transport and Communications, which should be at the top of Croatia by informing the Internet of its connection, points out that the Interent system is desperate for this purpose to be unable to make reports and compare them at various levels of decision-making and that all of this together affects the untrustworthyness of the data shown. So I can believe that this refers to some backward community man would understand if this report on the desperate state of Internet connection refers to the Ministry of Telecommunications. Watch out. Which should be perfectly organized by that. So obviously it was about completely incompetent people who couldn't do this job and how they would even be an example to someone, or even give advice on how to ifnormatize other ministries. Therefore, financial reports in the ministry have been drawn up twice and have not been submitted to the auctioned audit office within the legal period because it is being watched during the information processing process there has been a loss of part of the data. I think it was either a virus attack or a thing so desperately designed and connected that it could have happened. But again I'm saying it's about people who should be Maheri versus the rest of the government we have further, already mentioned the story of concessions. The thing is, if the concession officer doesn't pay the concession fee, then it's taking away his end. However, it is said here that the claim for unpaid concession fees goes up to nearly half a million kuna. And nothing to anyone. Look out, nothing bad happened to them. There's a talker further about running some lawsuits, beware, there they even complain with them but along with all that in those two and a half million and no claims of 10 concessionaires are included. So that's where the state's attorney's office is still engaged. Really unheard of. Because if that's the case, then the man wonders if the people who deal with concessions even know the law first and secondly whether they want to conduct it. Or it's a selective relationship again, so some of these laws are carried out and some don't. It also mentions the rules on the names and testimonies of the training of the seamen, on the shipping of the merchant navy. It's one of the sad stories I believe will be a special word if from no one else then at least from us HSP MPs when we talk about the maritime code one day. Because the way the Marine Ministry, along with the port captains, yells at the tariffs of people who want to get the bereveettes, could be sailing on domestic and foreign merchant ships because it's really outrageous. Every young man who wants to become a naval officer at all costs of training must crush another 20 thousand kuna to obtain the most elementary testimony. I do not believe that this is the case in other countries of the Union and our club, and this way insist that the rules on laying down seafarers comply with European Union standards. I'd also end up with two other very interesting ministries. The Ministry of Public Works, Reconstruction and Construction, I'm not going to mention their way of working speaking to the rinks on the highways, so I'm going to save you a bit of the time. But what we were particularly interested in was this special part of which, until recently, was the state secret. About the situation in the Croatian Army, too, I will not break the words better not to mention it. So, as far as Air Force and Navy are concerned. But when it comes to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, watch out for that very shrubbery, so the short lines tell you how much was spent to obtain office space and individual residences. When a man knows from the news reports that individual ambassadors were eight times over the cost of a team. When the ace knows that certain embassies are editable in Chinese style or that we used Italian furniture in certain embassies in other countries, do not give God Croatian. If we had ambassadors who were plassing their own wine from the local must instead of importing Croatian wines and advertising them, then the man really wonders where it's going. So all this is happening together on the back of taxpayers. So, Mrs. Šima Krasic, gentlemen of the state audit, we're terribly glad that you've made a truly qualified report this year, and I repeat that with really difficult conditions. And what we're interested in this time as well as all these years is what's really going to be the consequences of all those guys in the state administration that you've bravely warned about in this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9276	I thank the honourable representative, Tadic. On behalf of the Libre Club, distinguished representative William Herman.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9277	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Here is Mrs Krasic and her co-workers, i.e. the State Audit, who on several occasions had been commended, and Club Libre wants to commend the state auditor and the State Audit Office. Warning not only of this circumstance which may have one personal meaning because Mrs. Šima Krasic is now like a gentleman wanting to say longevity. You've been at the head of this office for a long time, but it's about a good situation so we have in Croatia those institutions that can be said to have such or in the most objective sense serious authority. The crisis of the authority of Croatian institutions is not small, so this is when I say... in that light, and I don't have to add then that I'm a gentleman, but obviously it's a good job, knowledge of the profession, and then appropriate results. [[You don't understand.]] The general place is that this office also has a larger range of jobs, and unfortunately there is no adequate monitoring of these operations with staff, and of course it remains there and a particular issue of education of these staff. We may find ourselves in some kind of rift that we are therefore ready to praise this office, its authority as an institution, but also perhaps not properly followed by financial means and some other maybe means that go into the box of political will, and that this office would then reach to the end in its fullness of the task that the Constitution sets before that office, and ultimately we, but then not only in a formal way. Club LIBRE believes that in this report that is correct, I don't think it's brave, I think it ate but correctly, therefore in accordance with the state and situations. We note that there are indeed several circumstances that we want to do, reading that report, and we want to accept it, in particular, to warn. There were already words here about it, so we think that the concession register is really for no reason missing and that there is no income and that it is something that has to be resolved quickly. And also an inadequate availability of liquid supplies, I think, is something that's good to find here in this audit report, and I guess it's going to get out of that and some lessons. We also think about the State Guarantee Agency as important, but it is important for some opportunities and relations with us in Slavonia and Baranja, especially in Osijek, because for years we have advocated the draft of a bank that we would call Agrobank and which would be on the bases of the city bank, which is not important at all, either with the transformation of the bank and the Post office bank or through the third institutional form, but in any case should come to a satisfaction and thus appear after 150 years after the headquarters of a bank in Osijek because after 150 years Osijek now has no headquarters of such a bank, there is no bank headquarters in Osijek. The question is then profit tax, the question is ultimately the availability of funds by local self-government and we think it could have been more hasty, that it could have been in a certain way in one good way words and more loyally through this State Guarantee Agency that one story could have helped this project, or at least not to be made available in this project. We also agree with what is in the report, we welcome this report, around the Croatian Privatisation Fund, warning that the legal frameworks are inadequate, and that there are still huge resources still in the same fund, which can significantly help develop in Croatia despite all budgetary difficulties and what we experienced through the amendments and the amendment debate two weeks ago. What is visible from the report and what can be traced is actually year by year we want to welcome it and we allow ourselves to say it in a certain way and the success of the last government, because it just happens that here it is already said, the ministries have received a more or less positive assessment even if it was conditional, but that's good. This means that from a higher level of internal order and more discipline, we do business, but we also don't think that's enough, there should be more of it, and the findings of the revisions of that course warn. When it comes to relations with these as local levels say, then it is right to point out the problem of expenditure, i.e. consumption, and then not enough actually planning between the first and the second. Of course, there is also the dramatic question of what is decentralisation in Croatia as a special project that is probably waiting for some better days. Of course, more favourable things happen in terms of public procurement. It's less than bypassing the contest, like it's supposed to be at all, but here it turns out that we're kind of lucky if it's a little less or less bypassing those contests. Of course it's not the normative legal framework that follows it quite adequately, so I guess it needs to be done, but it's some of the obligations that are waiting for us here in the Parliament, as well as the Government. Of course, with all that's said, there's always the most important question, the question that we don't really have to ask, that's the question that comes from citizens, from the squares, from the streets. This is a question, and what is then ultimately done when the problems are being audited, audited, or whether anything is being done. These questions actually need to be answered, because that sense of justice or injustice in relation to everything that belongs to actually the availability of taxpayers' funds is I think one thing not only likes to show moral questions but it is simply a matter of responsibility. After all, each government will pass or fall to exactly how much in a picturesque sense it learned from the audit findings, but then additionally and how much it actually faced the consequences of what was bad in those audit findings. I think it's too little, it's a little bit in the hands of the state audit, it's actually in some other frameworks, primarily the judiciary, and then the question is how and how does that part of the state and social mechanism work. For if, then, there is no satisfactory in the matter of righteousness, then there is hardly anything to be said except commendably of the finding itself, but not of what its effects should be. So with this message and the thought that decentralisation is actually a key project in which Croatia can see its development, and from the State Audit data, the State Audit report is extremely visible how slowly the budgets of local self-government actually grow. I want to thank you, on behalf of the Club LIBRE, for the report, for the good work of the State Hour and for saying that we will accept this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9278	I thank the esteemed representative Herman. It's on behalf of the HSS Club, distinguished representative Zeljko Pecek.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9279	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. In any case, at the beginning, I would like to join the congratulations on the 10th anniversary of the State Audit and the finding that in circumstances where she could have done a good job, however, it would also be necessary to conclude at the beginning that the Office was well-organised, as she obtained material conditions for work, has a relatively and necessary number of employees, informed, became a member of international associations and gives us that job that we expected from him. The audit law has been amended, but it is also more important that the Budget Act has been amended for the first time since 95 years has been amended in 2003. It's about the 2002 balance sheeting. In these changes, the most important thing is that transparent financial reporting is made possible, which is also possible to analyse financial indicators and the public sector as a whole. Someone here has already mentioned that the principle of cash flow has been used. This means that management and public expenditure and property are better quality, and this is also very important for the public debt. In addition to the state, other budget users of the local self-government unit are also included here, i.e. everything called the public sector. The lack of this amendment to the Budget Law is our classic disadvantages. We want to change, however, in these changes we say that we are going to change something outside the law, so we get a non-transparent law that requires in this case, it seems to me, 35 implementing rules which, of course, we as a state are not able to bring in timely, so that this job is still ahead of us. When we talk about the structure of the State Budget and its movement from 96 to here, how much the State Audit gave us, then the figures are more than interesting. The state managed to collect and spend 373 billion kuna. Units of local self-government, meaning, municipalities and cities, 44 along with the counties, and the City of Zagreb 22 billion kuna itself. It is important here how this income grew, but it is also important, it is already mentioned here, that the state managed to spend around 85.6% based on such collection and spending, and all cities and municipalities in Croatia only 9.3% of the collected. Here I think we sitting in the Parliament are the most competent to discuss the budget because I see a lot of people sitting in government, I see a lot of people who were mayors, and now they're acting as mayors and mayors, and it's absolutely certain that we can say something about the inside, how we acted, so that it could be better in the future. Because this job is just never done. What I'm unhappy with, and here I'm looking at the total of our work is the fact that we haven't succeeded yet, I'm going to say since 90th and so far make a list of state property so that we don't have objects in that list, we don't have equipment, we don't have a share in companies still until the end of the united portfolio. If we don't, then it means we don't even manage it very well. That's what the review was about, the situation is better, but of course it's still not good. I will remind you that the Croatian Peasant Party has proposed the State Property Fund Act. We will continue to work on this trail because we think it is one solution for us Croats to finally know what we have and how we can manage it as best we can. As we managed, I'm going to do a vivid attempt to say by example, and it's called the banking sector. It is not difficult to see that we have spent 19 and a half billion kuna in the recovery of the banking sector in this period which, by the way, has not yet been completed. We can round it up to 20 billion kuna, and back through the sale of banks we got a little over 5 billion kuna. So 5 billion and 400 million kuna. At the same time, after several years of business privatisation, these banks have also succeeded in profiting from several billion kunas. Here, that's the job that the state did, spent a lot of money to get something off, got a little money when she was selling it, and at the same time they bought it, made a relatively short amount of money through that business. We could've been better there, and I'm pretty sure we had to be better. Of course, it's a topic called purpose spending of budget money, it's a subject called transparent spending, and I believe that we were equally bad before us and we, and we should probably also agree that at least these things don't happen to us anymore. What the audit didn't do here, of course I'm not saying it had to, but it would be interesting to see how much and how the state spent that 373 billion kuna over the observed period, so let's see what the effects of spending that state money are. Have we spent enough of it in quantity and quality in preparation for entry into the European Union. I would also be interested in how we spent this budget money to try to change this relatively high debt of Croatia that is abroad and finally and domestically, what are the effects of spending state money on employment growth, what are on the efficiency of the judiciary, and finally what are the effects of the better work of the administration that actually collects this money and very, very successfully and spends it. You will see here in the data that we ourselves spend 16 billion in the work of the administration in a year, more precisely, 16 billion and 339 million kuna on the cost of employees. It's a frantic figure, big and I'm absolutely sure that the effects of this administration are pretty bad because we haven't made it through the last 10 years or even more to agree what the quantity is, which is the quality of work in the administration. We are still slaves to the principle that a civil servant must have 10 years of work experience and that is actually the most important criterion when we fill in jobs. It would probably be a better quality reverse, up to 5 years of work experience, but the expertise of younger people with fresh ideas with new projects that can successfully implement and also create new projects. The main shortfall in collecting and spending, and especially in budget spending, is that we don't have career civil servants. I believe it's a project that this government is, and everyone else has to do. Of course, it's not a competent audit. But I think there's a shortage in state money management between the ranks right now. We've invested in people, I mean too little. And now we have a special situation that, those who have invested a lot in themselves and in which the state has invested, we are simply driving them out of the state administration. According to my information at tomorrow's cabinet session, the last ministerial assistants left in the previous government will likely be removed. I think it's a special tragedy just as far as career people who have been in the state administration for a long time have learned how to create and implement the program. These political changes, in any case, slow down the work, bring a lower quality. We're wasting our time, and that's exactly why I'm sure next time we're going to find a revision, it's done a good job. However, she had numerous and justified examples. And we'll be sure to find out that we weren't happy with the work of the State Administration as a whole. As far as career state people are concerned, let me be subjective to that, and again to comment on something inside, from the position of the former minister. Because I realized, in fact, that we need to take to the most responsible places people who can implement projects that are expected of us. In some way, in some way of thinking, I believe normally, I took over people from the former economy ministry, people I didn't know about, and after their advances within three years, I promoted them to as assistants. Believe me, today I don't know if they're in any party, but I know perfectly well that they've been changed by the criteria of me unknown, I know completely confidently that they'll never work in the state administration again, and that's a great loss, because it's about people who have international specialization, who, unlike me, speak several foreign languages, but they're forever lost. Now, I'd be interested in it, of course, and that doesn't have to do the State Review, how much is it gonna cost us? Every man who's changed by political key will have the right to compensation in a period of 6 months plus 6 months, I believe it's a hundred thousand people on a Monday, one hundred thousand kunas only to receive compensation, because they've been changed.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9280	Dear Representative Pacek, I ask you to return to the agenda.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9281	That's not the point. I don't understand why it's not a subject. Because I'm just talking about spending state money on how we're going to throw 100,000 kunas per man, and 100,000 kunas per man we're changing politically, and they're not politically colored, they're even inherited from the previous sector. I think that's the most important issue of this particular revision, unlike you. Because people create projects, people do projects and people do projects for them and they respond. I'll just get this over with and done with. The state budget is thus done great damage, although it is indirect damage. But she's not hard to calculate. Try to put in a relationship 100 people times 100 thousand kunas, only that damage that's called pay compensation is quite enough to understand that relationship. The quality of further work of the State Administration, because of the loss of such people who created a career of 10, 15, even for many years, should not even speak. If we do not realize that this is one of the biggest problems, that in Croatia it is time for the normal handover of the authorities, for which it will not even need the law, then it is actually a waste of time to discuss the revision in this formal way. I would like to say that it is important to speak in a fundamental way, that people are really important, that people are here and in numbers and in sentences and in projects and in the effects that I expect in the state budget. The state budget must function as a function of better administration in general, in employment function, in the function of increasing exports of production, not only in the function of spending within the state and within units of local self-government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9282	I'd like to thank the esteemed representative, Pecek. I warned you when you talked about certain human resources within individual ministries and their repercussion on certain programs, that's when I warned you to get back on the subject. Correction of the incorrect allegations, distinguished representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9283	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, I will correct the inaccuracies of Mr. Honorable colleague Pecek when he speaks of the spent funds for the officers he found. It's not true, but it's true that 50% of gross wages were paid against those same ones as stimulation for their good work. And another false allegation is that it's not a tragedy to change the last ministerial assistants, but you should have done it long ago because of their convictions on criminal acts. Thank you very much. In case... [[/the speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9284	I thank the esteemed representative, Josip Djakic. First of all, we have a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Dear Representative Pacek.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9285	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. I'm surprised you're correcting an incorrect quote that I wasn't talking about. Mr. Djakic doesn't understand it in particular, nor does he read what it says in the report. So you're completely...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9286	I'm asking you not to insult the MPs. And about what you are...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9287	I'm asking you not to interrupt me.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9288	I'm asking you not to insult the MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9289	Can I go on?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9290	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9291	So none of the allegations have been corrected. No statement has been corrected, nor has any of the assistants been tried, which is an insult to the helpers, which is an insult to the helpers.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9292	I thank you. You've made it right.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9293	Nor does it say that anywhere in the state's audit.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9294	You've hurt the Rules of Procedure, you haven't listed the article you're referring to in the case of a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Not now, it's too late. You asked for it on behalf of the club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9295	Mr. Vice-President, given what Mr. Djakic has said, mentioning officials in the ministry that are allegedly legally convicted, I am asking on behalf of the Club for a 15-minute break to clear these issues once and for all in the Croatian Parliament. I'm asking a 15-minute break to bring out the real truth. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9296	Is there anyone else looking for a break in the club's name? I'm setting a 15-minute break. Continuing at 12.05.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9297	Break time's up. Please, on behalf of the HSS Club, honorary representative Josip Vresk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9298	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleagues and fellow MPs, I am truly sorry that my club requested a break, but so many times in this assembly the case pulled out that once it was time and to explain what it was and how it was condemned and later released by Josip Hral. I hope we all agree that no one in this assembly has the right to comment on the decisions of the judicial authority. It is constitutionally the right of everyone, indeed, to be considered innocent until there is a final judgment in criminal proceedings. Josip Hrala, by the ruling of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia, was released last fall in which the verdicts of both the municipal and county courts were abolished, i.e. The proceedings against him have been suspended and that is a fact. But that's not all that matters. On the very charge, i.e. for the crime that Joseph Hrala was accused of, I will now describe to you the fact that he is a substrate of the crime. Josip Hrala was charged, indeed accused of having been sent as a bank clerk to collect an accept warrant, so the loan-back instruments and one of 300 and some of the acceptive orders was a forger. As a bank clerk, he neither knew nor could have known that one of these acceptual orders was forgeries. He's not an expert. It's a skill of the graphological profession. This is ultimately important because acting consciously as a bank clerk before he had to and could give an acceptive payment order only had to carry out a check of whether they had all the formal ingredients and that is enough to ensure that the acceptive orders as payment insurance instruments were paid, of course for those loans which are not returned neatly and when the bank so requested. But I repeat the fact. The ruling of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia abolished both judgments last fall, both the municipal and county courts and subsequently suspended the criminal proceedings against Josip Hrala. He's not being held as a convicted person. But I have one more thing to say. Namely, the Code of Criminal Procedure provides for the exact time when both the powers and the judgments of the criminal proceedings are to be declared. I don't think that's the case here, and I don't think there's a place for that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9299	Before that, we'll be correcting an incorrect allegation. Honorable representative Ivo Lonchar.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9300	Mr. President, my colleague Vresk said several inaccuracies about his colleague, Hrala, he said "this has been spoken falsely several times in this House". Since I asked that question seven times in the previous term, I have here a verdict on behalf of the Republic of Croatia where this gentleman was sentenced to a first-degree and second-degree court, and since I asked this question seven times, here is what the Croatian Prime Minister of Croatia answered me on January 31st 2003. According to data from the criminal record of the Ministry of Justice, Administration and Local Self-Government against Josip Hrala, the judgment of the Municipal Court of Virovitica, which became powerful on 29 November 2001 for the criminal offence referred to in Article 311, etc. The punishment, and he was sentenced to a six-month sentence on a one-year sentence. As a colleague earlier said that the Supreme Court released him last fall, it remains here in response to the then president of the Croatian government: "The state lawyer of the Republic of Croatia has applied for the protection of the legality of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia at the proposal of Josip Hrala" now pay attention to this "day 16 January 2003". After I asked the question seven times how he could be prime minister at the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry, a man convicted of crime. That's true. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9301	Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect allegations, respected representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9302	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. I would correct Mr. Vresk's incorrect claim, given that he clearly and unequivocally wrote in his ruling that Mr. Joseph Hrala was convicted of counterfeiting the document, which was marked and punishable under Article 311(1). On the basis of Article 311 of the Penal Code, he was sentenced to six months in prison and converted into a suspended sentence of one year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9303	Mr. Vresk's injuries to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9304	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Both MPs used the correction of an incorrect assumption to state facts that were not even controversial. These judgments existed and they were abolished by the Supreme Court's decision, which is not disputed either. So fixed is nothing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9305	Now you've corrected the incorrect allegations under the company's breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, pal. What's wrong with the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9306	... I was talking about the documents given to me by the then Prime Minister and I was talking about a first-degree and second-degree judicial verdict. [[Specially enabled.]] Please can it be disproved? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9307	Please. Here you go, buddy Tomci. Did you want more? ... Okay. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9308	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear ladies and gentlemen, it seems like he's still trying to continue something that I think is unacceptable in this country. It is unacceptable to destroy an individual, to destroy a man who suffers from this family, which I would say leads to an extremely difficult situation to finally see that the Supreme Court has made it very clear. We may be here talking and commenting on the Supreme Court decisions, but I think we should all be aware of what it means about a man for two years saying he's a criminal, that he's a thief, that I'd say I don't know what. How do his children feel? How does his wife feel? How does a man feel? It would be a good idea for them to get mixed up in front of their own home in their own backyard. It would be good to learn from some of the things of a particular lesson. The HSS went all the way because we knew from the beginning that we were right, that Mr. Joseph Hrale wasn't guilty that the Supreme Court confirmed it. All those who have done evil to one man in this way should look at themselves in the mirror, for God forbid it should happen to them and see how they would feel then. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9309	Correction of the incorrect allegations, respected representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9310	Mr. President, I would have rightly incorrectly assumed that someone had done a man harm. But this is a man's help to be freed if the Supreme Court's verdict has already been passed after these, but the moral side is not satisfied. He was supposed to be suspended from the assistant post at the time of the trial against him. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9311	Correction of an incorrect allegation, yet respected representative Ivo Loncar.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9312	Mr. President, my colleague Pankretic said it is inadmissible to destroy an individual, the first quote. The second quote, "all those who have done evil to Joseph Hralah, should look in the mirror." You should look in the mirror at those who questioned Mr. Joseph Hral. I'll quote you now, it's a document from January 31st, seven times as my parliamentary question reads. I quote: "Why is the prime minister at the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry convicted of crime still in place?". In the 7th time, I never mentioned it, but I was talking about two people, the president of the then Croatian Parliament and the President of the Croatian Government, how they as the most responsible people are destroying the rule of law, without respecting the judicial rulings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9313	The views here have been made that at a time when the verdict was a necessary answer to the question why is the gentleman concerned, why not do something about it? There was later an extraordinary legal remedy, a request to protect the legality of the Supreme Court by a state lawyer to suspend the proceedings and to suspend both the first-degree and second-degree judgments. Let's move on to the debate. Dear Representative Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9314	Thank you very much, Mr. President, chief state auditors with associates, colleagues and colleagues. It's good to go back to the topic we're discussing today, because the assembly shouldn't be a courtroom, and we shouldn't be the ones to comment on the verdicts. So, in 10 years of work at the State Audit Office, I can say that there is great progress in the quality of the audit itself, but that there is also progress in the quality of tax money management in a somewhat slower way. That's how we can make sure if we check out the 94 State Audits, so here's the deal with 2002. I will also join those who say that the audit is doing a very responsible job and that it does it in a quality way. Namely, our State Audit, unlike state audits in other countries, is, in addition to that mandatory law, an established job during this period and a huge and difficult business of revision, conversion and privatisation, and it is a far harder job because it is done backwards for several years than these regular audits that are done every year. We from the report on the work of the State Audit Office can also read their international activities, cooperation, their permanent education that is then confirmed through quality, as I said, of the audit itself. This is very important because Croatia wants to become a full member of the European Union as soon as possible, and that means that all our regulations, not only must we bring them into line with the European Union's normative acts, but we must also bring them into line with them. And applying the rules would be much harder if we didn't have a quality State Audit. Here, Mrs Krasic told us that this review in 2002 covered 58% of the social gross product. It's, it's a huge asset and we really have one big and good control over such great resources. The State audit has recently ensured the spot availability of its reports to the public. So, as soon as we discuss them here, they are available to the public in full form or in the form that we are presented about the spending of public income, which actually strengthens the responsibility of those who have these resources. Of course, and it would not be certain that this one supervision and the public would not, if there were no such surveillance of the public, there would be no such additional responsibility. If we spill this, this big material that's actually bigger in its original form, then we can say, what can we say? There, the first conclusion we already get on the first pages is that there is still high centralised in Croatia. Despite all the efforts of the 10 years since we've been talking about the need for decentralisation, we don't actually have any greater progress. The state budget with its funds is still moving at 86% of all revenues. From local and regional self-government, only the City of Zagreb with 4.6% while all other units of regional and local self-government have 9.3%. Looking also at the decentralisation of part of the revenue of the state budget relating to health and education at this point, we actually see that there have been no relative shifts, but the growth of the state budget is somewhat faster than the local self-government and we keep these relative relations constantly. This should actually be a guideline to further decentralisation and using exactly this kind of State Audit data. It is further said that the changes in the accounting system, i.e. the transition from the principle of cash flow that is changing now with the principle of business change, have affected one part of the irregularities in the management of the accounts of users and the budget and other beneficiaries of the budget. It's still said that internal surveillance is set up. In previous reports, we have consistently found that no internal surveillance has been established, however it is insufficiently effective. In order for it to be more effective, it should probably create similar programmes for additional training and education of people who will work in this internal audit, similar to that of the State Audit, because this will make it easier for a part of the work to be done to the State's audit, and that is precisely on those simplest jobs. So, that there are no more accounting, accounting irregularities going on, and that the State audit leaves more space and opportunity to assess what is, in fact, the most important thing, which is how efficiency and economics are used by taxpayers. Of course, that should be our priority. There are still irregularities in procurement procedures and changes to the Public Procurement Act. I think that this is closely related to planning, and in particular this should be removed to the next period, because we have also adopted the new Budget Law, and the new Budget Act in Article 10 says, or 9, 10, and puts some before, when adopting the state budget, the commitment to making adopted plans to budgetary users per year and for the next two years. So larger investments related to larger procurement should actually be planned for three years. This should then be done and prepared to implement certain projects that will be financed through these funds, and I think that one part of it would be removed. When we passed the Law on Public Procurement, we actually had an argument that this was in line with legislation with the European Union. If so, then we must establish within a certain, within individual users of a particular mechanism that this law begins to apply and that is exactly how it is done. That we have real planning and that we have long-term planning. In the state audit, the state audit is also used as an advisory institution and I think that's good. Here we also point to certain contradictions in some of the regulations, and I think it would be good and that it would be even more necessary when making proposals for certain rules concerning accounting law and some other laws relating to the collection and use of tax funds to be consulted before that and state audit. Because that would also facilitate the application of these regulations. So it would be known in advance what problems we are expected by applying such regulations, and with this, this programme of additional training of people who have to implement these regulations could be more efficiently composed. In the end, I would say that it is found as one general assessment that financial reports are in significant respects showing an objective and true view of business. I think it's good that we should keep working on it. I would also positively assess what is said also in one of the findings of the state audit that most of the audited entities accept recommendations and proposals from the State Audit Office, reflecting on the quality of their business, better management of public funds, a more cost-effective attitude towards public money, which ultimately leads to a reduction in public spending. This finding actually means that the state audit has a high reputation in Croatia, especially among those it audits. I think we should thank them for that and wish that they do so in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9315	Thank you very much. Correction of an incorrect quote by a respected representative of Duja Marasovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9316	Honored Mr. President of the Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. A colleague said she felt a better distribution of state money during the period covered by this revision. I don't think that's true. It is true that this period is the most catastrophic period in terms of the quality of spending of state money. First, eight billion spent money against it, another tens of millions of dollars spilled into Victor Lenac who would answer for it.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9317	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, dear colleague Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9318	A colleague was injured by Article 209. The Rules of Procedure, because I didn't talk about it at all. He says he's thinking something I said and I've actually literally read one of the conclusions proposed by the state audit.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9319	Honorable representative of Slaven Letica. He's not losing his word. The Honorable Representative, Drago Prgomet. He's gone, he's losing his word. Dear Representative Nenad Stazic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9320	Dear Mr. President, distinguished auditors with associates, colleagues and colleagues. I hear there's a review that's been going on for ten years. Only according to this report 611 audited entities. Revision report on 8500 pages. Your work is Mrs. Auditor extremely difficult and extremely serious. From year to year, I notice that the subjects are a little bit more responsible. Irregularities are still less and less of the largest. And that's good. But in light of the recent developments, the question is what does the work of the state audit make sense? Namely, on page 117 of your report, where you analyse the work of the Croatian Employment Service, you conclude. The State Audit Office has carried out an audit of the operations of the Institute, on which the report is drawn up. No irregularities were identified by the business audit. One of the 4 audited entities in which no irregularities have been established. And that's the consequence. The head of this office at the final cabinet session has been replaced. Is it because she wasn't doing well, so the audit office found out she was doing bad. No, I don't. That is why the local HDZ asked the government to replace Mrs Crnkovic Pozaic. And why because she replaced the head of the office in Rijeka didn't work well. He wasn't doing well, and that's why she changed him. When that happened, a certain Mr. Jaska sent a letter to the centre of his party asking to protect that poor worker, Ognjen Crnkovic. Which one is it?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9321	My colleague Stazić I again ask you to report on the work of the review carried out by audits and in 2000. Why are you going back to one topic that has nothing to do with it?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9322	I am going down because this subject and how it relates, because it speaks about the attitude towards the state, the audit is audited by state authorities entities.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9323	You're going into a political topic that's completely out of this context. And it is not, you will encounter numerous disputes and corrections and everything else, because there will be debated whether something is credible from some party and its officials, it is not. Please don't be nice, and limit yourself to this.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9324	Well, I'm limiting myself. Insolence of the work of the state audit. It's a waste of work. We're discussing a state audit, we're finding that she's in one of four in all of the audited cases has found no objection. We're finding out after that that's exactly where one of those directors is being replaced. We're trying to figure out why it is, is it because of the poor work, is not why Mr. President of the Parliament. Well, that's because he's Jaska.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9325	Mr. Stazic, this is not a debate on the reasons why the government has relieved the director of the Employment Office.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9326	I ask Mrs. Auditor you and myself, and everything here and the public, whatever your efforts make sense. No matter what your turn makes sense when the opinion of a local HDZ man is more important than your finding when acting on the basis of his request and not on the basis of your findings. That's my question. What's the message with reading your findings like this? Don't mind the state audit. It's a message to all state officials. Whatever state audit you want and what you care about is whether the state audit or Mrs. Šima Krasic writes about you. What do you care? You're breaking the laws as you know it's important that you're close to the HDZ then you'll be held together. It's a message.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9327	I really must warn you that you are going completely off topic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9328	Mr. Pecek has already warned of this by saying on behalf of the club what damage is done to the state if quality people move from the state administration. The KBCs aren't audited now, they're coming in the fall. I wouldn't be surprised if your findings were completely orderly there, but that doesn't mean anything again because those who do good are being replaced.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9329	I thank your colleague for your advance. I ask you many times to stick to the Rules of Procedure and stick to the subject, you go completely outside that framework and I thank you for your presentation.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9330	We have a situation...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9331	Thank you for your presentation.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9332	You cannot take away my word without giving me a warning so that you may read the Rules of Procedure to me again. You can't thank me in half for my debate about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9333	I, in accordance with Article 210(2), paragraph 1 states you: "The speaker can only talk about the subject under the established agenda". According to paragraph 2, you have moved away from the topic and the chairman is obliged to warn the speaker to stick to the agenda. You did not follow my warning multiple times, because I have warned you again that you did not, and that is why I have to do it because the Rules of Procedure, not me, but the Rules of Procedure. The Rules of Procedure take your word for it.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9334	Mr. President, but I'm sticking to the agenda, I'm talking about state review...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9335	Thank you very much. I have taken away your word in accordance with Article 210(3). Rules of Procedure. Correction of an incorrect quote by a respected representative...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9336	Mr. President, I have the right to request the opinion of the Committee...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9337	You have no right now.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9338	Unsatisfactory with your explanation, I have the right to request the opinion of the Committee on the Constitution and Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9339	You're unhappy with my explanation. All right, and then in accordance with a particular Rule of Procedure, I will give it to the Committee on the Constitution and Rules of Procedure to give its opinion within 24 hours. Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the respected representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9340	Mr. President, here's what I'm going to do is correct an incorrect quote from my fellow Stazic when he was talking about HDZ rematch. Namely, the best proof that HDZ was not a rematchist is that you were the editor of Croatian Radio at the time of HDZ. Therefore, you are the best proof that there was no rematchism in HDZ.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9341	Correction of an incorrect quote by a respected representative Darko Milinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9342	The distinguished representative Mr. Stazic spoke of a question directed by Mr. Jaska from Rijeka. These are certain media speculations, and this does not answer the truth that any letter has been sent to the HDZ centre in terms of Mrs. Pozaic's shift, and that Mr. Josko wanted to eventually direct it and warn our centre about what kind of rematch policy or something else leads to certain HDZ members, but this letter does not exist.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9343	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations by the esteemed representative Velimir Plesa.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9344	The incorrect quote of Mr. Stazic when he said that the message sent from this place should not be taken care of by the state audit is important only to be a member of the HDZ. It is very important to take care of the State Audit report and it will be very interesting to see the State Audit report for 2003, and then we can talk about why Mrs Pozaic may have been replaced.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9345	Let's move on to the debate. Dear representative Mirjana Brnadić. You're giving up. Thank you very much. Dear Representative Kajo Bucan.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9346	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. I will try to focus precisely on the topic on the agenda today and talk about the revision carried out from 2 April to 10 June 2003, which covers the business of the Ministry of Labour and Social Care. Let me point out irregularities in certain sections, which are summarised in the 24 pages that the State Audit provided us as a report. First, accounting operations of the Ministry of Labour and Social Care. The Minister's decision on the adopted proposals of the Committee for the List of Assets, Obligations and Requests in 2001 has not been implemented. As part of the preparation of non-financial assets, construction facilities whose works have been completed by the end of 2002 have been shown, however, not transferred to social care institutions what should have been done. Furthermore, non-financial assets were to be entered from the books after the end of the procurement and recorded in the books of the social care institutions. As regards the ministry's income, the following irregularities have been expressed. The Fund for Development and Employment has not been established as the procurement procedures have not been implemented in time. Furthermore, the ministry does not have a registered obligation of the social care institution to the state budget of 65% of the payments made from the sale of dwellings and it was not possible to determine whether these liabilities were settled according to the state budget and the audit requires payment of those funds to the state budget. Furthermore, there is no purpose and plan for spending the remaining funds of the foundation Ivana Brlic Mažuranić. In the section of expenditure, the following irregularities were observed. The ministry did not carry out joint procurement, except for the purchase of fresh meat and partly cleaning products, because the complaints and complaints from participants were not completed by the end of the year or cancelled, and some were broken up due to poor quality of the goods delivered. The Ministry did not establish records by type of supplies, and it was not possible to determine how much was spent, and no suppliers were selected for clothing and footwear by the end of the year, which is not in accordance with the procurement procedure and according to the provisions of the Public Procurement Act. Furthermore, the ministry uses 19 mobile phones for which no cost records are shown per machine. Furthermore, when paying for the reconstruction of the Centre for Rehabilitation in Zagreb, the ministry amounted to the total amount planned even though the completion of the facility was only 15% of the value of the works. At the end of 2001, social care institutions had surplus funds of which 18,000 kunas were not returned to the ministry and were not spent on social programme fees. Finally, neutral assets remained deposited on accounts, so the State Audit note that the ministry did not have to withdraw funds unless there was a commitment to spending the planned funds. Finally, let me comment, which is not my original comment but a quote by Mr. President-in-Office of the Parliament in a former meeting, and published in "Free Dalmatia" about a year ago in April last year, and that statement can be partly illustrated in this State Audit Report and reads: "bad practice giving away a picture of chaos in the government". Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9347	Please, dear representative Marko Shirac.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9348	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. The report on the audits carried out for 2002, which was made by the State Audit Office in my opinion, was very good-quality, and in the part in which I was considering the Report, this Report, I have only one remark, and that remark concerns the business of the Ministry of Development, Reconstruction and Construction. In the realization of the POS programme where I think the State Audit is going out with a more decadent attitude. Otherwise, in my review, I will try to make my opinion known to the two ministries and one state agency. First of all, he would present something for the Ministry of Public Works, Reconstruction and Construction. The State Audit Office, in its review of the findings of the Ministry's 2002 business audits, points out that revenue is shown at 2 billion and 519 million, and expenditures amounting to 2 billion 473 million. During the financial year, loans were received with a state guarantee of 683 million 683 000 and 706 kuna, which relate to loans granted by HABOR to contractors. The commitments on 31 December 2002, which were not settled, amounted to 822 million, suggesting that contracted works for which there was no coverage in the state budget. The ministry operated through multiple giro accounts and multiple transitional accounts. The question arises as to how it is possible for the ministry to operate with so many giro accounts and sub-accounts and retain significant funds outside the scope. It is obvious that such a way of doing business is causing damage to our country. Supervisory activities have been carried out in technical and financial operations to finance the construction of buildings, but not for the transfer of financial resources to other entities and the internal operations of the ministry. In the ministry's expenditures, special attention is being given to the promotion and information item of 141 thousand 545.76 kuna. There are no items in any other ministry in that amount. In the case of operations carried out by the Ministry, the most serious thing is to blame the ministry for handing over housing to the victims of the Homeland War because of poor preparation, additional costs of keeping and heating have been incurred, and the unnecessary extension of the deadlines for caring for the victims so that it is not acceptable that it is also not acceptable that contract deadlines on the renewal of schools in areas of special state care are not carried out. As regards approved loans for the purchase of dwellings under the Social Incentives Programme, the State Audit Office states that a contract has been concluded with the business bank on the joint financing of the purchased apartments, while insight into the contract found that it was concluded with the APN and not with the ministry. So it is not clear why, is the contract and the amount of appropriations listed in the report on the revision of the Ministry of Public Works, Reconstruction and Construction, not the APN Audit Report. The Agency for Legal Transport and Real Estate Intermediation. The State Audit Office warns in its review of the APN’s performance audit findings of the past year that the APN has been ordered to remove identified irregularities. The audit of operations in 2000 found that the Agency had not acted on orders, i.e. some irregularities had been repeated. The Agency's revenues amounted to 211 million 367 thousand kuna and expenditures of 165 thousand, 165 million 213 thousand kuna so that the surplus income and receipts are shown at 46 million 153 thousand kuna. Obligations on 31.12.2002 are shown in the amount of 321 thousand 713 kuna and relate to obligations for material expenditure. It is not clear how one can account for such a sum of money and such a income difference, not to settle his obligations and especially if he is a state body. Two internal controls have been carried out on the operations of the Agency which have not identified irregularities in the business, but have been made notice of insufficient linkage and cooperation between the Sections of Buying and Accounting. The public competition for real estate assessment services and property-preservation services has not been implemented. No consent of the competent office has been obtained for the purchase of computer equipment. No contract has been concluded with suppliers of purchased vehicles. The report of the State Audit Office describes the legal obligations of the Agency in relation to social incentive housing, and does not state any financial indicators on the implementation of the social incentive housing programme. It is to be assumed that this is because the agency has concluded an agreement to entrust part of the business of socially stimulating housing with the Ministry of Public Works. The agreement also did not establish mutual obligations between the ministry and the agency. The ministry did not report to the agency on business operations, did not submit reports, accounts and documentation. Therefore, in its financial reports, the Agency does not show any expenditure on the basis of socially encouraged housing. The Agency did not exercise control over the operations of the Ministry of Trusted Affairs. In other words, the Ministry entrusted the tasks of the social-encouraged housing programme as it wished, i.e. by the Minister's own intentions and findings. Therefore, I believe that the conclusion of such an agreement is doubtful, as the law on socially encouraged housing is said to provide for the activities of the implementation of the social incentive housing programme to be carried out by the APN. Allow me a few more words about the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Spatial Planning. The State Audit Office in its review of the ministry's 2001 performance audit findings warned the ministry and ordered the removal of identified irregularities. The business audit in 2002 found that the ministry did not act on the given orders, i.e. some irregularities were repeated. Within and in the control of the ministry, it was not organised in accordance with the rules on budgetary surveillance and internal control. The surveillance work was carried out by only one inspector, who, of course, was not qualified for it, so the result of his work was ineffective. The ministry does not act on the order of the State Audit Office, but explains its failure to comply with the rules by organising a professional service within supervision. Such a situation favours the messy business of the kuna and foreign currency register. Some travel orders for official travel to the country and abroad, instead of justifying themselves within three to seven days, are justified by a delay of several months. The official travel expenses in 2002 amount to 2 million and 455,000 kuna. The journey of a travel order gives you the impression of a suspicious justification for such some of the trips that have been made, for example.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9349	Your Honor, please conclude. Lock it down.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9350	Here, I'll do it. One construction surveillance officer traveled to Costa Rica and other countries during 2002 for a total duration of 60 days.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9351	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Rade Ivas.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9352	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. In front of us is the report on the work of the State Audit Office for 2003 and the report on audits carried out for 2002. These reports certainly make great attention to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, as they can read how and how state resources are used. The submission of the annual report on the work of the State Audit Office stems from the provision of the State Audit Act according to which the State Audit Office corresponds to the Croatian Assembly. The audit shall be subject to all state bodies, organisations and agencies financed from the state budget, local and regional self-government bodies, as well as all other entities established at national and local level and financed directly or indirectly from budgetary and other public funds. By adopting the Law on the Revision of Conversion and Privatisation, the competent State Audit Office has been extended to all business, audit operations of all conversion and privatisation procedures of former social and state capital. It is clear that the expansion of activities has been put before this office by major requirements in an organisational and professional way. In fact, it is more than 3,000 legal persons, where conversion and privatisation has been carried out over the last 10 years. The revision of conversion and privatisation is carried out methodologically, in the same way as the revision of the business, but contentally due to a large number of material regulations and permanent status changes in most entities is also a new type of business. We can determine that the State Audit Office in 2003 carried out all planned tasks covering the legal obligation to audit the state budget, ministries, out-of- budget funds at state level and audit the budget of units of local self-government. Also in accordance with the Law on the Revision of Conversion and Privatisation, entities subject to this type of audit are processed, which is likely to end in 2004 according to the number of audit applications submitted. Otherwise, the report on the audit carried out for 2002 covers a total of 611 entities, the state budget, 22 state administration bodies, 568 local units, and 42 budgetary users, or other entities. It is certain that, in the review process, special attention has been given in addition to the determination of regularity in line with the legal regulations and audits of the effectiveness and performance of the business of the audited entities, in order to determine how public funds are used. The state audit found in 2002 that it was only in three ministries and in the Croatian Employment Service that they were the only institutions that did business without or with little irregularities. From the findings, we can read a series of irregularities in spending state money from several thousand to millions, but find out, for example, that state housing is also used by trade union leaders. Namely, of 101 apartments for official purposes, 6 apartments are used by union leaders and one by party leader, which is not in line with the Law on meeting the housing needs of officials and officials in state authorities. We can see from the revision of the Ministry of Economy how much various advisors cost, and for whose services the ministry paid a total of 13.25 million kuna. The ministry also found that out of 9.3 million kuna for material expenditures, as much as 3.5 million amounts of subsidies that they gave without a public tender. Also at the Ministry of Science, the audit found irregularities related to the National Foundation for Science and Higher Education, which received money without even acting. The ministry thus gave away 52 million kunas, although neither the administration was appointed nor the statutes were adopted. And through the contract of the section, the trustee was paid 64.8 thousand kuna, even though he didn't do the contract. At the Ministry of Finance, one of the irregularities is the lack of cigarette stamps. The audit found that at the end of the year there were more than 550,000 of these stamps missing, which were damaged but not listed. The auditors ordered that a final and accurate record of the state of debt be established because, for example, no debt of 17 loans has been expressed, some are shown in larger or smaller amounts than the real one and no principal payments of four loans totalling $12.7 million are recorded in the debt account. The audit also reiterated this year that not all assets have been entered in the register, that a series of ministries have not yet provided real estate data. That there's only 31 personal cars listed from the movables. Because as many as 30 authorities have not entered data on cars. Several ministries have also paid their employees for incentives, although they should not have done so because the government has not established the necessary criteria. Thus, in December 2002, the Ministry of crafts and middle entrepreneurship paid a 50% gross wage for its 57 employees for November. And the environment minister paid 323.4 thousand kuna for the above-average results. This ministry also gave 879.6 thousand kunas for professional training although there was no plan and education programme, for example. The Maritime Ministry paid off 812 thousand kunas to its employees for their work contracts. The findings of the state audit relating to the State Agency for Bank Rehabilitation show that the cost of the recovery and sale of 4 banks, Privredna, Rijeka, Split and Dubrovnik 19.5 billion kuna, is far less than the revenue generated by their sale of 5.4 billion kuna. The audit also found that the first buyer of the Split Bank earned almost 28m euros. In 2000, the State Agency for Bank Rehabilitation sold 55.7% of the shares and previously renovated bank for 48.4 million kuna, and in 2002 the buyer sold the shares for 76.4m euros or 58% more than he bought them. The national auditors of the opinion on the work of the Telecommunications Council have made a reservation, as the allegations of failures in normative action, planning and financial activities have been recorded and significant and irregularities in business have been identified, for example. Payment payments under the decision of the President of the Council, equipment and office furniture shall be agreed without contract. According to the auditor, the Croatian Privatisation Fund has not been realised by the sale of shares, shares, possessions and rights, and the assets and profits of companies in which it has shares or shares in an expensive budget. And what he should have done according to the Privatization Act. Four lawyers have even concluded contracts that determine the payment of a monthly fee for similar jobs, i.e. the provision of legal opinions and from the first state regardless of the quantity and quality of the services provided, and that they also make fees on the bar fee. The 2002 audit find continues to mention a number of irregularities in accounting business and related to the list of liabilities and claims that are not overall to unreal income planning and the like. More than the past years in 2002, there have been irregularities in the procedures for the purchase of goods, works and services, and most often it is about procurement, the collection of offers, although public selection competition should be carried out. As time expires, I conclude that we can say that the Drave Office for Audit has fully carried out its task, that the reports are quality and professionally designed and that they deserve all praise, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9353	Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9354	Dear President, I'd like to correct my colleague for the reason I respect this House of Highs, but I respect the house where I've worked so far and his speech mentions union leaders living in government flats. I don't want the public and members of this House to be fooled because the revision has its limitations. It determines the situation and does not enter the excessive genealogy of the problem, nor solves the problems. Part of the apartments owned by the Government of the Republic of Croatia was built by joint investment of the union and authorities 20 years ago. The second problem is that it is never, but is passed on to trade unions, but is always held by the Republic of Croatia. So I want the truth to be told once, and we don't see it as a problem in the newspapers because it's not a problem, it's a problem, it's just a practical solution to the property at the time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9355	Thank you very much. That's Mrs. Chief State Auditor to explain in more detail and... Ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, we are being followed from the Gallery by students of Faust Vrančić Engineering School in Zagreb with their policy and economy professor, Mrs Zrinka Filipović. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Welcome to the Croatian Parliament! Dear representative Nevenka Majdenic. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9356	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Ms. Krasnic, colleagues and fellow MPs. In its presentation, it would only refer to a few of the works of this very extensive, comprehensive report on the audit of the state budget for 2002. The State Audit Office systematically and precisely carried out the complete audit task pointed to shortcomings in the management of business books and records and proposed ways and measures to remove the detected missing and irregularities. The state budget must be transparent, consolidated and must include everything that belongs to it. The basic budgetary principle is that all revenue and receipts by sources must be shown in the budget, as well as expenditure on budgetary classifications, both economically, functional, organisational, location and programming. According to the State audit report in the 2002 State budget, total budgets are not visible because the budget does not cover the privatisation revenue shown by the Fund for Development and Employment of billions and 800 kuna, 800 million kuna and the Regional Development Fund of 500 million kuna. The realisation of the state budget would then be important for the efficient rational use of funds amounting to 82 billion 505 million 941 thousand kuna. In addition, no single record of a majority state-owned company as well as a record of the shares on which the proceeds from the dividends will be monitored has been established in the case of income and dividends. There are also no records of profits achieved and dividend payments in these societies. As the majority owner of the state, he must know how its companies operate, how much profits they have achieved, how much dividend and to whom it has been paid, and not only that the state hears about them when they are in trouble and when they are looking for funds for recovery and recovery. Then the administration of these companies remembers that the state is its owner. The revenue from concession fees is also not transparent. It is illogical that, according to the 2001 concessions, revenues amounting to €246,8 million were made, and in 2002 they were reached in the amount of kuna 119.8 million or €48.6%, although the new 94 concession contracts were concluded in 2002. The State budget in 2002 did not pay its own revenue, although according to the State Budget Implementation Act 2002 there was a obligation to pay their own revenues to the state budget. One example. The ministry of justice, administration and local self-government did not pay into the state budget its own revenues of €56 million. In the area of borrowing, financing and payments, both external and internal debts do not have full records of each individual loan, deadlines, withdrawal and repayment deadlines. In this way, large amounts of unpunished assets were paid and loans were disbursed in an untimely manner, which accumulated loans while both seeking and granting new loans and creating new responsibilities for similar purposes. Records must be established, holders of those operations, their tasks and obligations must be specified, as well as responsibilities for incorrect management and non-compliance with the deadlines for execution. A similar situation is also in the area of budgetary expenditure and expenditure planning. Some expenditures must be monitored analytically, planned and executed otherwise lose control and control of their execution. One example. At the end of 2002, significant neutral funds were retained at the Ministry of Public Works, Reconstruction and Construction, and there was no agreement with the Ministry of Finance on keeping them or directing them in favour of the State Treasury with the possibility of being used whenever necessary. The situation of 31.12.2002 was 96 million kuna in the ministry. It is characteristic that a large number of findings, opinions and recommendations in the report on the audit carried out that it did not show the appointed ministries. And at the end of the debate, I would like to say that it would be useless for the report to be accepted, and there is nothing to be done to conclude and even the orders in the report do not carry out life, because that is the only way their making and this debate about them will have an excuse. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9357	I thank the honourable representative. It is next to the distinguished representative Nevenka Majdenic. Excuse me. We're a little busy here. Dear Representative Zivko Nenadić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9358	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Since I am vice-president of the Maritime, Transport and Communications Committee, I will focus a little on the findings, the opinion of the review on the subject, so as not to repeat myself with other colleagues. And in order not to be misunderstood, it is best to quote a few key sentences in my opinion and read from this report and it will now be clear enough how it was done in 2002 in this ministry and here I will read, quote: "The accounting business is not conducted in accordance with the rules governing budgetary accounting." Furthermore, the conclusion of the bookkeeping which determines the result of the operation has not been carried out in a regulated manner. Financial reports do not show exactly the entire business of the ministry. Furthermore, the Central Commission for the List of Assets has drawn up a formal report that does not show the real state of the Ministry's assets. The Central List Commission's report was dated 31 January 2003 and the individual committees' reports were drawn up after that date on 26 March 2003. Then a bonus was paid for successful work in the amount of 183 thousand and 319 kuna for which there is no legal basis. Successful work, so there were those who worked more successfully within the ministry. Furthermore, for the purchase and installation of solar foil to protect the building from the sun at the location in Zagreb there were little hot jle', 367 thousand and 800 kuna were spent. The works were completed in July 2002 and the built-in solar foil did not prove useful and was mostly downloaded two months after installation. And this is very important, members of different committees have been paid compensations of 5.5 million kuna, and are carried out by ministry employees on a regular basis. So 5.5 million kuna commissions to work on a regular basis. 812,000 and 806 kuna were paid for the work contracts, and it is again mostly for employees of the ministry's regular activities. Thereafter, the information on intra-department concessions is not harmonised, and the proposals for a lawsuit have not been filed against 7 concessionaires of which the claim amounts to a million and a half kuna in relation to the total claims for concession fees of 2 million and 400 thousand kuna. Thereafter, in certain cases no procedures for the supply of goods and services have been carried out in a regulated manner. In certain cases, the work was not carried out in due time and no guarantees were provided by the contractors for the completion of the work as well as for the elimination of the shortcomings in the operations carried out. These are the key... sentences from the findings in this ministry. [[You don't understand.]] I won't look back on the other one, but there were similar things about others. I see here Croatian Road that the rebalancing of the business plan for 2002 has not been confirmed by the government. I see here Croatian highways again in the procurement process are not in a certain number of cases applied procurement procedures prescribed by the Public Procurement Act. In the Ministry of Public Works, Reconstruction and Construction, instructions on how to rehabilitate programmes for war-damaged housing units have not been developed before the selection of contractors so that the exact number of facilities that individual contractors will renew and the value of the works can be agreed upon. No criteria are laid down for the award of houses, or for what it depends and how many houses will be agreed with individual managers, etc. Here's a few of those accentes and now I wonder if that's the word two thousand and just before fair, was it a parole or was it a program. So this all happened in 2002, and I wonder if this is why anyone answered in 2003 when this was seen and found out. And if not, if there's no consequence, if there's no sanctions, there's really no right to ask the question, any government, any government, any ministry, what's the big effort to audit, what's the amount of state money if there's no consequences, if there's no sanctions for law enforcement? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9359	I thank the esteemed representative Zivko Nenadić. Notice, 7th session of the Committee on Economy, Development, Reconstruction, will be held tomorrow, Friday 2 April at 9 pm in Hall 133, first floor. Next in line is Honorable Representative Damir Spaincic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9360	Dear Mr. Vice President, dear Mrs. Krasic with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues. Allow me with a few sentences and my review report on 2002 with an emphasis that this may be a good basis for the new government to work in the next term, because I want to commend a good and thorough work of the State Audit Office that is full of quality and good data. Certainly I'll look back as the former mayor and the units of local self-government that are also an integral part of this state audit report. The basic income and receipts therefore show that 80 billion 207 million 427 thousand and 403 kuna have been achieved. The city of Zagreb 4 billion 314 million and 576 kuna and units of local and regional regional self-government 8 billion 672 million 210 thousand and 300 kuna. As a percentage, it is 86% of countries, Zagreb, Zagreb City 43.6% and local self-government units 6.8%. And that may be a good basis for further discussion but also a good indicator to the government of what needs to be done and done. It's a walk. The expenditures were as a percentage of the total amount of 86% of the countries with 79 billion and 800 million, cutting short, the city of Zagreb is 4.5% and units of local self-government 9.3%. It is an interesting data that refers to employees and refers to units of local self-government that is a billion and 4298 million and 525 or 8.7% and the city of Zagreb with 577 million 485 thousand. Therefore, it is interesting to note that the expenditure for the employees of the city of Zagreb is 40% of the same expenditure for all other local units of the regional self-government. And now something about cities and municipalities and counties. At County level, certainly the most significant revenues and receipts were made in Primorje-goranska with a billion and 200 million kuna, Split-Dalmatia billion and 200 million kuna, Istria with 874, Zagrebačka 711 and Osijek-Baranja with 615. On the other hand, we also have the weakest Lika-Senjska with 140 and Virovitica with 149 and Požeko-Slavonska with 153. When compared to these 5 counties that have total income 54% we see that on the other hand 46% carries 15 counties with its incomes and that is perhaps a good indicator that the Croatian government should therefore base this data, which should be done to other counties because we see that it is a huge disproportionateity. But you can also see how far the government has gone and invested, invested in less developed counties. In any case, income and profit taxes are important and good indicators are good indicators, we can see that this income tax is 33.8% of total income, that profit tax is 5.2% and they may not be a good indicator of what I'm talking about, so where it should be given an emphasis, in any case it's a development of the economy. One brief review of the funds coming from the title, therefore, more expensive, is the total amount of 84% and 152 million and 650 thousand kuna. And we have one piece of information and that's that a lot of funding came with... The ministries of crafts, medium and small entrepreneurship, however, we see that the state audit found that a lot of this, these funds that were coming were not spent. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Or whether the state was not overseeing the spending of funds or units of local self-government did not spend these funds well enough or lacked a certain entrepreneurial spirit, it is obvious that the state should go more with development programmes towards these units of local self-government and normally monitor them with these means that they should have. Which means that the Ministry should have brought more activity into fostering the development of entrepreneurship. And let me finish, it's very important to be in charge of local self-government units. During 2002, there was a local unit mandate of 284 million, which is for 88.5 million or 45% more compared to the previous year, which is also a clear indication that the units of local self-government had to themselves, borrow themselves, and seek the state's consent to be able to implement the programmes obviously that the State did not invest sufficiently strongly in these areas that I had just talked about. The debt ratio from the borrowing title was therefore one billion and 135 million at the end of 2000. And one of the most important counties is as far as the Split-Dalmatia debt situation is concerned with 188 million, Istria with 174, Primorje-goranska with 149 and Zagreb with 115, again those counties that were the most important in the first part. Requests and obligations of units of local self-government, for all units of local self-government, for all units of local self-government without the city of Zagreb were 3 billion 594 million and increased by 4.4% compared to the previous year. According to the legal provisions of the unit of local and regional self-government, they are responsible for the full and timely collection of budgetary revenues, so the State Office for Auditing the last few years requires the taking of systematic measures to collect budget revenues, draw up operational plans, charges, dynamics its implementation during the fiscal year, compiling reports by type of claims,... Indicators of results, charges of reporting to the representative, executive authorities, local collection units, budget revenues, and for revenue that determines the collection and control of the tax administration and demand greater efficiency and their collection which I personally support, so what the audit has written to us here. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And finally, I still want to commend the work of the Drave Office for the revision, but I stress it is a good picture of the situation in the Republic of Croatia. Obviously, there have been major problems in the past term, these are clear indicators that will certainly be a good basis for the new Croatian government for work and what will need to be done, so as far as we are concerned about the future of the local self-government unit, because obviously from this information we see that the state must live beyond Zagreb, therefore, according to small cities, municipalities and counties, and we see that we have a whole series of indicators here. And I am sure that the new Croatian government will respect this information and will do so in order to even the developed parts of Croatia and we see that there are 5 counties. And in order to even these... County that are in a far more invisible position. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9361	I would like to thank the esteemed Spanish representative. Replica, our distinguished representative, Pacek, came forward.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9362	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. This is actually the continuation of my thesis that actually we sitting here see things from within because we consumed to a good extent the past budget, and so Mr. Spancic, who is also interestingly located here as I am in the function of Homo duplex, who finds that the former Ministry of crafts, small and medium entrepreneurship, has created a little program, and at the same time we can say that here in his comment there were 200 zones for entrepreneurship that we created, which were financially and technically monitored. That we also helped and created in his area with an entrepreneurial incubator and that I don't count any further. Of course we've been looking for reports on the dedicated spending of these funds and of course we've been getting them but not as dynamic as we wanted it to be, and of course it's one of those who are... Weak reports are also Mr. Spanish, so I would pray that we try to avoid this homo duplex here so that what was good wouldn't actually comment badly because someone else did it, and we haven't done it and helped make the whole job as good as possible. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's high time we tried to talk about positive things positively and negatively negatively. In fact, such a comment has not been found here in the report of the State Audit, as Mr. Spanishic said.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9363	Thank you. The reply to the replica is the esteemed Spanish representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9364	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, maybe it's a good thing we're on this subject. I wasn't too critical of this. I was saying, if I were to say, I could say moderately but to you for information from my colleagues in the small business area of 6 million and 300 million kunas of your Ministry and the last Croatian government did not give you any lip, but we had to be in charge of 900 thousand marks, former marks at Raiffaissen Bank. For the construction of a hospital incubator center in Pakrac which is 5 and a half million kuna, we received 220 thousand kunas for the implementation of the programme so for capitalists we received nothing and normally as other cities the usual funds that were multiplied by business banks because the town of Pakrac was singled out. So for the city that was so destroyed was and was offering cooperation to the Ministry, it's evident that we got zero kuna capital investments more than anyone came to us from the Resort Ministry to open a small economy zone where 300 people work today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9365	I would like to thank the esteemed Spanish representative. You have no right, you don't, you don't have any business opportunities either for replication or for correcting an incorrect quote. We finished this morning's session. Continuation is at 3:00. It is up to the honourable representative Šišljagic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9366	Ladies and gentlemen, we will proceed with the session. The word has a respected representative, Vladimir Šišljagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9367	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished state auditors, colleagues and fellow MPs. In today's debate, I would like to point out and speak a few words aimed at one segment of the audit carried out, in part of the financial reports of the Ministry of Health of the Republic of Croatia, so for 2002. In 2002, the Ministry of Health achieved a loss or how much better this sounded a lack of income of 20 million kuna, representing a total of 7.7% of the shown revenues of the Ministry of Health in the observed year. In fact, this is not particularly strange, if we see that the revenues are planned in the state budget, so the revenues from the state budget amounting to 327 million, and that the revenues from the budget are achieved by 250 million, or just over 24% lower than were planned. However, let me show some of the interest I have noticed in the implementation of the health ministry budget. First of all, the purchase of office material amounting to 517 thousand during 2002, the fact that the public competition for the purchase of office materials was only published in September 2002, and then one of the suppliers lodged an objection, and the Ministry of Health refused, and only in January 2003 did the complaint of the public procurement administration annul this competition. So, at the end of the financial year when everything was actually done. Furthermore, the purchase of computer equipment amounting to 555 thousand kuna, purchases and equipment which has also been obtained without a public tender. Further purchase of office furniture 355,000 kuna, again conducted without a public tender and direct contract. Direct bargaining has been carried out further for the purchase of furniture for heliodroms, the purchase of stellisers, and for works at a health institution for the purpose of completing the adaptation and addition of total amount of 3 million and 130 thousand kuna. At the Ministry of Health, it also happened to sign 11.5 million million-dollar equipment contracts, that the same equipment had nowhere to be placed. So the equipment in 2002 is worth 11.5 million, so it doesn't even deliver, because hospitals didn't provide room for the accommodation and installation of this equipment. At the Ministry of Health in 2002, millions and 200 thousand kuna were spent at seminars, symposiums and consultations. It should be understood that this isn't something you don't need. However, in any case, the fact that the Ministry of Health, unfortunately, did not have a plan and a programme of human education, was therefore spent on something that was not planned. Furthermore, in the cost of services, 20 million kuna, 50% of it is waste on intellectual services, so 10 million and 750 thousand kuna. Despite the fact that the Ministry of Health, and I say it is not negative, however, the positive spend some of the money on seminars, symposiums, so the training of professions and staff. In part of intellectual services, contracts are concluded for the performance of operations in the section for the professional organisation of work in health and development programmes and in the investment department weighs 2 million and 900 thousand kuna. Some contracts continue for many years, although it is known that the contract on the part can be concluded only for the purpose of performing jobs that do not fall within the regular activity of the Ministry of Health, and which is obviously not the case here. Although earlier years, the revision of its reports to the audits carried out indicated and ordered the organisation and conduct of the work, in a manner consistent with the law, the implementation of the health reform project preparation, the development of clinical algorithms of the national clinical guidelines and the preparation of various analyses, and in 2002, external associates, who weigh and cost the Ministry of Health a month 51 thousand kuna, i.e. 613 thousand kuna, annually. Intellectual services worth 200 thousand kuna are also paid for the implementation of the Health System Reform Programme and the preparation of the Health Management Study Programme and two programmes for KB Dubrava. Furthermore, I would now like to say something about the use of loan funds, i.e. loans. On the basis of one loan agreement, the Social Development Fund of the Council of Europe for the period from 98 to 2002, amounting to 173 million kuna, and this loan was intended to restore infrastructure in Eastern Slavonia, so by the end of 2002, it was not possible to withdraw the funds amounting to 18 and over 18 million kuna, respectively. The second loan agreement and its realisation of the Council of Europe's Social Development Fund, which was concluded in July 2002, amounting to 177 million kuna, were not even launched. Because the withdrawal of these funds is conditional upon the completion of the health infrastructure project in Eastern Slavonia by means of the first loan I spoke about earlier. In early October 99th, a contract was concluded with the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, a loan contract for a $29m health system project. The project was due to be completed by the end of 2003, with all the funds for this project being spent by June 2004 at the latest. Unfortunately, and perhaps fortunately, given the extremely high costs, various consultants, only 7 million and 114 thousand US dollars or only 24% were withdrawn by 31 December 2002. Only on unused funds from this loan, the finance ministry had to pay an interkalar interest fee of $176,000. What I said was just some examples of irrational management of taxpayers' money at the Ministry of Health during 2002. And what was presented to us by the State Audit report. I believe that it is inadmissible to bypass and violate the provisions of the Public Procurement Act, such as those in the cases I have set in the debate, and that planning, implementation and monitoring of the procurement but also timely preparation of the space for the installation of the secured equipment must be carried out consistently and respected. And finally let me express my dissatisfaction that only now in April 2004 are we discussing the report of the audits carried out for 2002 which, of course, I don't want, I don't want this criticism directed towards the state audit. However, I would like to believe that the competent institutions of the legal system will, in the event of observed irregularities and failures in business, deny the process of determining responsibility and that we will quickly have reports on the audits carried out for 2003 on the agenda of the Assembly's session. I think, even so, it would be useful and given the observed irregularities in the business of health institutions in recent years and this would be logical and priority to review the business of all state-owned health institutions, the more their annual revenues exceed the revenues of the Ministry of Health of the Republic of Croatia, for example. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9368	I thank the respected representative Krešimir Cosic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9369	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen. It is indisputable that the State Audit report represents the most objective, the most complete, the most professional and professional assessment of the work of each Croatian government. So does the former government. The report clearly speaks of how the government or more precisely how the government ruled. For this reason, I am holding and I am sure that the State Audit report deserves special attention, that it deserves not only a day-long debate but I would say more day-to-day debate in order to conclude perhaps the following facts that in the State Audit report year by year repeat some common concerns and which unfortunately we fail to remove. To rule and not to learn, not to learn from mistakes and not to correct mistakes is neither good nor responsible and I would say it is dangerous. In my brief presentation, I would stick to what the State Audit found at the Ministry of Defence and what the evaluations of the work of the State Audit look like when it comes to the work of an important ministry such as the Ministry of Defence. In that sense, it is certainly important when we talk about the State Audit Report to avoid personal assessments and I will be inclined to quote what is clearly unequivocal in this report in particular. Here's a few words. I quote: "The revision of the observed weaknesses, shortcomings and irregularities in the defence ministry's operations concerned financial planning, financial reporting, claims, asset list and liabilities, own income, expenditure on the purchase of military equipment, and that is the part that I will pay special attention to because it is the part that has been repeating for years and which has to warn us because it is part of the Croatian economy. Therefore, the comments relate to renting apartments, business spaces and garages. At deliveries in earlier years of contracted production, military equipment and completion in earlier years you start building housing and other construction facilities. It's an introduction and a summary of the report. When unfortunately we add some recent reports that we have also received from independent, well-intentioned experts and experts from NATO when it comes to the formation and development of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia. Then without constraint, we have to be concerned, we have to realize that the work at the Ministry of Defense over the past few years has been far from what we expected, what we wanted, what we needed, and I would unfortunately say from what was written in the media. Here, please allow a few quotes illustrating and warning that one important activity in the Ministry of Defence relating to the equipment of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia with the weapons and military equipment that should be or produced in the Republic of Croatia quote. For the production of military equipment, unwarranted advances were made in late 2002, which amount to approximately 25 million and are followed by several years of delivery deadlines, multi-annual delivery deadlines, repeat production suspensions and producer bankruptcy. What does it mean? This means that the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, that the Croatian Army from its state budget, is investing in military production from the Ministry of Defence's budget and the results are unfortunately inadmissible or devastating. What is agreed on is not produced, producers are unfortunately unable to produce what they have agreed on for various reasons because their professional, technological and other level is not at the level of the challenge facing today's modern arms and military equipment industry not only in the Republic of Croatia but everywhere in the world. We have the right to ask Croatian military regardless of whether in Croatia, whether in Afghanistan or elsewhere it has quality weapons or military equipment supplied to it by the Croatian arms and military equipment industry. Furthermore, I quote, in 2002, the department of control of the budget carried out the financial material business of the Ministry of Defence and the Armed Forces. A number of reports, including proposals or measures to address identified deficiencies, have been drawn up in the observed non-registrations and shortcomings. For example, control of the contract on dedicated production, military equipment has been established that this production is accompanied by overruns, valuable unwarranted advances, bankruptcys or discontinuations of the manufacturer’s work and many others. As part of the solution to these problems, a revision of the contract is proposed and measures are taken to recover the advances given. No decision has been taken in 2002 on the elimination of irregularities and the lack of reports of the budget supervisory department. Established by controls, financial material operations of the Ministry of Defence, I again quote, expenditure on military equipment in 2002 were planned in the amount of 389 million kuna and were carried out in the amount of 292 million kuna, which is less than or 24.8% less than the plan for almost 96 million kuna. That's good, maybe it's a form of savings but the next finding worries. According to the type of equipment purchased during 2002, significant deviations were made as suppliers failed to deliver equipment, within the agreed deadline, or provided services, and the funds were not used for that purpose or urgent unplanned needs occurred during the year and were re-scheduled by the Minister's decision. This certainly shows that the system of programming and budget management at the Ministry of Defence unfortunately after many years, after its installation has not started to work properly. The military industry is an important part of every modern economy. The industry should therefore have an important place and role in the Republic of Croatia as well. Unfortunately, it lags behind in technical, technological terms and the level of competitiveness of that part of the Croatian economy is what worries. And finally repeat what was seen and all the other reports. Public procurement, for the selection of demand suppliers and other materials, has not been carried out in the Ministry of Defence by the usual public tendering procedures. The purchase was made by suppliers selected in 2001. And now, at the end of the day, in 2004, to discuss reports that are almost two years old, I would say it is good, it is important but if we want to act in the system actively, manage it, direct it, improving its quality we should have reports of state audits with delays that are not greater than a few months in order to have one system in which the information of the State audits is applied to decisions made at that time in the state administration and all other ministries. This is the cornerstone of quality management of every system and therefore state administration in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9370	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations by the esteemed representative, Josip Leko.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9371	Thank you very much, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, I believe my colleague, Cosic, has unwittingly and unwittingly qualified the State Audit report as a report on the ministry's work. He even says: “The most complete, the most complete, the most comprehensive and accurate work report” which is, of course, not true. The state audit is not engaged in the purpose of business but rather in the legality of financial business, and that is very correct in the debate, but in the assessment of the entire report which says it is a report on business, on work, and that is not true. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9372	Dear Representative Marko Turic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9373	Dear Mr. President, Madam State Auditor, esteemed MPs and MPs. In this report in this house, I would refer to the report and the opinion of the State Audit Office relating to the Croatian State, Croatian Institute of Health Insurance. So, as we have already heard from the findings and opinions of the State Audit Office as a whole, as well as from the Croatian Health Insurance Office, it is evident that the financial reports show a very objective and true view of the business but my exposure will be on the observed, certain work gaps. So I will refer to the observed failures and certain irregularities in the business of the Croatian Health Insurance Institute, which was in 2002. First, the Health Insurance Act and the Law on the implementation of the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2002 determines which rights to health care and compensation are financed from the funds of the contribution and which from other appropriations. For activities and rights not financed under these regulations from a health contribution, no specific records are established by categories of users which I value very important. In order for the Institute to be able to carry out those expenditures which it is obliged to subscribe from a health contribution, it is necessary to monitor the execution of expenditure for which the funds are provided by the state budget. Further from the report it is evident that the Institute has no documentation from which the data and budget of the Management Board of the Institute determined the price of the supplementary insurance policy. With a supplementary insurance policy, protection from basic insurance relating to the quantity and quality of services as provided for by the Health Insurance Act. Since May 2002, by the end of the same year, an excess of 48% of income has been made, although the Additional Insurance Fund is not founded to make profits, so the excess revenues are made, but to benefit from it on a solidarity basis from the health insurance costs incurred by the insurance company. Therefore, it was obvious that acts should be adopted to regulate the possibility of a reduction in the price of the insurance policy in accordance with these business results achieved. In addition, after the end of the annual policy, the Bureau was to notify the insurance companies of the financial result or financial result, and to determine by means of the regulations what this surplus of revenue will be spent on. It is further noted that the network of health activities, which determines the number of health institutions or teams with which the Institute concludes contracts, was only adopted at the end of 2002, but was not applied except when the hospital facilities were contracted. Thus, the report shows that, for example, general medicine has been agreed by 180 teams over the network. With preschool children's health care, another 40 teams are down. In polyvalent healthcare 158 more than standard and so on. Since July 2002, hospitals have been offered new contracts with increased monthly limits financed in part from supplementary health insurance according to the established network of healthcare activities. Of course, this type of insurance is certainly contrary to the provisions of the Health Insurance Act, and including income from the supplementary insurance policy is also an unintended spending of money. In the reporting period for that year, there was no new Regulation on orthopaedic aids and other aids as well as a list of aids with fixed prices, although this should have been done by June 2002. Therefore, it is neither in line with the Public Procurement Act. So as we have heard here from many of the MPs who have been participating this debate, it was not a public competition. She didn't pass the public tender procedure. Furthermore, the decision of the Governing Council of the Institute, according to the lists of hospital obligations provided at the end of June 2002, determined that these debts would be settled, however, no basis for the criteria to be done. So some hospital is going to be given a little less funds, some pucks more to resuscitate the debt. Therefore, the amount is determined according to the decision of the Governing Council. As the contracts were signed after the decision was made, neither the health constitutions could explain their debts, nor did the institute provide an analysis to see why hospital debt levels were so different. At the end of the financial plan of the Institute, investments were planned in the so-called “investment”. non-financial assets, and the execution was even more than 70% less than the plan. And these are among other cases that after the contract is concluded you can't, for example. to deliver equipment because it is not a suitable space for their accommodation. And it is clear that in a health care sector that has not had enough money from once in this segment they appear in planned investments, there is an surplus of funds, which is burdened for unnecessary reasons by the budget and they could not be allocated to other expenditures. Since I live and work in health care, so these things are very close to me, and now we have a 2002 report ahead of us, I hope it's to assume that the report for and a third year is identical to that of many prostitutes. I'd like to believe and I'm glad that this government is going to be a very different calendar report for this year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9374	Thank you very much. Before we continue the debate. In line with the agreement of the president of parliamentary parties, the other day, I would like to propose the Danube agenda of the 5th session. Interpletion on the work of the Republic of Croatia, which is the applicant of 20 MPs and the proposal for a decision to determine the form of a representative card, which is the proposal of the Committee for Selection, Appointing and Administrative Affairs, according to the Rules of Procedure, we must attend the plenary session of the Assembly and determine the decision to determine the form of a representative's search. Any of the MPs have any objections to supplementing the proposed agenda? If there's no objection then this supplement from these two points is done. And tomorrow after the vote, we would move on to this point of interpretation about the work of the government of the Republic of Croatia and this decision for this inauguration to determine the form of this representative card. The chairman of the Committee on Economy, Development and Reconstruction, which scheduled the 7th session of the Committee for tomorrow's entry, shall postpone the meeting until further notice. Honorable representative. There's one replica, yeah. Dear Representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9375	Mr. President, in his presentation, consignor Turic has touched on the activities and rights that are financed from a health contribution in accordance with the regulations. So let me rephrase it to him and I think it's important for the Croatian public to actually know what this is about, that it made 398 not clear enough. According to the audit report, the expenditures of the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance are not planned according to the state budget. Those rules lay down which rights to health care and compensation are financed from the funds of the contribution from other appropriations. What is significant here in the review report is that for activities and rights that are not financed in accordance with the regulations from the health contribution that 398 million kuna has been spent. You don't have to start blinking yet, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9376	Thank you very much. Time's up.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9377	There's a word from Agent Damir Sesvečan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9378	Mr. Vice-President, /the speaker has been disfellowshipped/ In my debate, I will focus only on one example of illegality in the established review of psalting, specifically in the ministry of untour jobs. And that is to the one relating to the revenue from the sale of second-hand vehicles, where the state audit office detected irregularities and illegalities, above all, non-compliance with public procurement laws. The sale of the vehicle was carried out on the basis of a decision to authorise the sale of motor vehicles by the Government of the Republic of Croatia in July 2000. The intermediary who performed the service of the PR chamber and transport of the vehicle to Zagreb as the only place of sale of the vehicle was selected by collecting calls based on the consent of the finance ministry, but after that three new contract annexes were concluded without the consent of the finance ministry, which is contrary to the public procurement law. The total revenues of the interior ministry from the sale of used vehicles amounted to three million 918 thousand and 33 kuna and 90 limes. And the services of transport of accommodation and sales of vehicles are paid to the intermediary in the amount of 552 thousand 723 kuna and 32 June. As a result, the ministry had to carry out a re-election process for the most favourable bidder that it had not done. The reasons for non-compliance with the law and non-implementation of competitions for selecting the highest bidder can be guessed, but someone should be held accountable for such, I would say deliberately breaking the law because I am convinced that the interests of individuals are behind such behaviour. as is one’s interest that although it was a recommendation from the State Audit Office, it does not organise the sale of a vehicle in the organisation of the sale of a vehicle in police administrations, thereby reducing the costs of transport and accommodation in Zagreb, and allowing the availability of these vehicles to a greater number of customers. The irresponsibility of the Ministry’s assets therefore confirms the fact that the ministry’s commission to control the implementation of the Uvoor did not require and the intermediary did not allow an account for each vehicle sold or evidence of the sales prices achieved. Therefore, due to the lack of vehicle specification, it is not possible to determine the number and type of vehicle that the intermediary has taken over from the ministry, with the addition of the contract and not to publish the report of the vehicle handover. I think this kind of treatment of state property is inadmissible and I demand that the ministry determine responsibility for such a harsh violation of the law and non-compliance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9379	Thank you very much. Five minutes on behalf of the HD Club for Mrs. Katarina Fuchek.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9380	Mr. Vice President, gentlemen of the Parliament. I'm going to pick up where I left off in my first report on behalf of the club and where I had a little trouble with my time, and I was talking about the problematic guarantees given for loans that certain companies used to cover losses, a smaller number for investment projects, and instead of being the other way around. I would like to point out that the government showed a discrepancy as well as that it had no exit, or had no development projection and had no programme because in two years it was already to be seen in action. In that part, the minister was well aware that there was a big mess in the area and that he could not continue and formed an inventory commission for issued and paid guarantees as well as for return. As the government is responsible for the implementation of the budget, the departments and other beneficiaries of the state budget are also responsible, but a special place in this responsibility in the implementation and control of the budgets is certainly the Ministry of Finance, and within its scope, the Treasury. The Treasury is a complex system of budgetary and financial management of state revenue and expenditure. The meaning of the treasury is that the state knows at all times what means it has, thanks to the single account of the budget to which all state revenues and receipts from which all state expenditure and other payments are paid. We can see from the 2002 audit findings that the treasure is not fully formed, but that the budget control is not controlled by the ministries. This is why irresponsible behaviour and the use of budgetary resources leading to absurd breakthrough situations beyond the established level law or not recording budget funds in individual bank accounts are taking place. In addition to looking at and respecting the law in all revised units, it is interesting to get an economic picture of our counties, cities and municipalities only followed by, say, common taxes such as income tax, profit, real estate turnover, as well as other revenues from the agreed annual concession fees and the other. Similarly, we can get a picture of competent and development-oriented management of individual units of local administrations and self-government if we analyse revenue intended to encourage crafts, small and medium entrepreneurship and financing of business zones. The findings of the audit that the funds were partly used for other purposes, that they were not used on the accounts unambiguously deposited on bank accounts, that the credit potentials were not used because of the lack of programme, that neither the implementation of the programme for the purposes obtained nor the return of funds to the budget accounts was related to this competence of management. The competitiveness of the Croatian economy can also be raised by reducing public expenditure resulting in rationalisation, savings, regular control and access to sound management of state assets and the resources of taxpayers' citizens. Which wasn't the case in 2002, because if it were the case then it wouldn't have happened that in the programme to take care of the victims of the Homeland War of 751 completed apartments no one moved in, and only to keep these apartments spent a million and 440 million kuna. Irregularities shown in her report by the State Audit and ordered to be corrected are repeated year after year. The truth of the review finds that there are fewer each year, but if damages were calculated, and billions and millions of budget money are said to be said to be responsible, the story of the State Auditor's finding would certainly get another epilogue. Mr. Vice President, as I said in the first part of the presentation, HDZ will support this report because the State Audit has done a huge job and we propose that the report be accepted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9381	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP club 5 minutes Mr. Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9382	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues. It's just that the report says that by all those over whom the audit has been carried out, they respect the comments from year to year, they try to make efforts to address shortcomings, and what's great is that in many things the Office of Auditing is engaged in and giving interpretations, and I would say those additional help to all users of the state budget to avoid irregularities, so maybe it's hope and faith for all of us that the next report will be, not a report, but I would say handling and working with public spending means far better. Independently, the SDP Club has proposed additional conclusions to the Croatian Assembly, under number 1), that a report on the work of only the Office be adopted in 2003, that a report on audits carried out in 2002 and that specific part, 4) be adopted to assess whether there are cases of unlawful treatment available in the State budget, i.e. the budget of the county, towns and municipalities and, in such cases, to act in accordance with their duties and powers. I point 6) of our conclusions, that these institutions report to the Croatian Assembly on the measures taken, and regarding the report of the State Audit Office for 2002. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9383	Thank you very much. This concludes the debate on these agenda points. I'm closing the debate and we're moving on to the next item of the agenda.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9384	A) Report on the work of the State Audit Office for 2003, B) Report on audits carried out for 2002 and C) Report on audits carried out for 2002. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposals of the working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: 1.A report on the work of the State Audit Office for 2003 is accepted. 2.A report on audits carried out for 2002 is hereby adopted. 3.The 2002 report on audits carried out, a special part, is accepted. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? I find that, unanimously with 112 votes, the proposed conclusion has been reached. In accordance with the SDP Representatives Club proposal, I am voting on the following conclusion: 1. The report on audits carried out for 2002, which was submitted to the Croatian Assembly by the Office for Audit, shall be submitted to the State's attorney and the Ministry of Interior. 2. These institutions shall be obliged to take into account, by means of a report by the State Audit Office for 2002, the assessment of whether there are cases of unlawful treatment at their disposal from the State budget, or from the budget of the County, cities and municipalities, and to act on such cases in accordance with their duties and powers. 3. These institutions are tasked with submitting reports to the Croatian Parliament on the measures taken in respect of the 2002 State Audit Office Report and not later than 1 July 2004. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? I find it unanimous with 112 votes for the proposed conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9385	We move to - Report of the State Audit Office on the work on the implementation of the audit, conversion and privatisation and the report on the audits of conversion and privatisation carried out. In accordance with Article 11. The Law on State Audit and Article 10 of the Revision, Conversion and Privatisation Act was submitted by the State Audit Office to those Reports. You received the material and the CD into the boxes. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Finance and the State Budget and the Committee on Economic Affairs, Development and Reconstruction. You received the reports at the session. Would the proposaler's representative like to further explain this proposal? Here you go, Mrs. State Auditor...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9386	So we can wait for TV cameras to turn on.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9387	... Šima Krasic [[Let's wait a minute.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9388	Let's wait for TV cameras to turn on. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9389	If they are, if they are close to those who need to hear this appeal let them urgently turn on these cameras. Here you go, ma'am.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9390	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. Here, today we are discussing two reports from the State Audit Office, one yearly which we are submitting to the second half-yearly. We're discussing this year a little bit, I said in the introduction, with a delay for famous reasons, because there were elections. We finished the report at the end of the 10th month and had to submit it only later when the Assembly was formed because the report was handed over to the President of the Parliament. As for the report on the revision of conversion and privatisation, we submit it every six months. This is already the 6th report and concerns the period from the beginning of June to the end of November 2003. This Work Report, as well as previous reports, also described the basic audit procedures, the criteria for assessing the conversion and privatisation process and the criteria for selecting audit entities. A detailed review course has also been described, i.e. a further demonstration of all audit procedures by working phases from decision-making on audit, collection of documentation, verification and identification of essential facts related to conversion and privatisation until final audit report has been drawn up. The report also contains an analysis of the process of conversion and privatisation made on the basis of data from 250 audited social enterprises. The report shall also contain the information on the application referred to in Article 17. The law on the revision of conversion and privatisation, i.e. information on the number of applications submitted, according to the characteristics of the irregularities identified. It's about criminal traits and the traits of violations we've committed along with the State's Attorney's office. In addition to the above mentioned work report, you have been provided with reports on the audits of conversion and privatisation carried out for 250 social enterprises carried out during this reporting period. The report on the audits carried out on the CDs we gave you, I don't know how many of them you've had to see, they have a total of 6 thousand 828 pages, and they're also on our website. I reiterate, the revision procedures are methodologically identical for all audit entities. This can be confirmed by the content of each individual audit report. Reports shall be drawn up in accordance with the provisions of the Law on the Review of Conversion and Privatisation and in accordance with the rules of the audit profession. It contains all data on the basis of which an assessment of the conversion and privatisation process can be given in a particular audit entity, i.e. all relevant actions in the process of conversion and privatisation are described. The names and last names of persons responsible for the implementation of the conversion and privatisation, the names of legal persons and the names and last names of natural persons who have carried out the assessment of the value of the undertaking, and the names and last names of those responsible for the irregularities identified. In addition, all reports, in the case of a review of identified irregularities, state the legal provisions of which have been violated. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The State Audit Act was submitted to the legal representative of the audited legal person, with the aim of unequivocal confirmation of the facts. Although the State Audit Office is a provision of Article 15. The law on the revision of conversion and privatisation gives the possibility to carry out the audit within the scope of the assessment required by each entity to review all conversion and privatisation procedures until the day of the audit, on which companies, the Fund or anyone else has the documentation. This was done with the intention of avoiding any doubts about the diversity of access, objectivity and full audit reports. The audit procedures, as always, have been carried out in accordance with international standards and the State Audit Act. Since the entry into force of the Law on the Revision of Conversion and Privatisation until the end of November 2003, a revision of the conversion and privatisation into 719 companies has been carried out in accordance with the requirements laid down in Articles 6 and 7. The Law on the Revision of Conversion and Privatisation, which means that the audited companies are also rescheduled according to decisions of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, companies in which a request has been written down by the Ministry of Finance, the Croatian Privatisation Fund, the State Agency for Bank Rehabilitation, and the insurance of savings deposits, and pension funds, and since they are in the process of conversion and privatisation. The revision of the coupon privatisation process, which covered 471 companies, of which 276 companies were not required to review, i.e. for which there is no other legal basis for the revision of conversion, privatisation. Audit of the process of replacing shares between the Croatian Privatisation Fund, the Peace Fund and other legal, natural persons, who participated in the process of replacing shares with the aim of improving, the quality of their portfolio. 770 companies were included, of which 274 were not subject to a request for a revision of the conversion. The revision of the procedures for the granting of shares or share in management covers 28 social enterprises. The audit of the sale of shares and shares in the portfolio of the Pension Insurance Fund covers 572 shares or shares transactions relating to 498 companies. For one company, it was more sales. A total of 1269 social enterprises were included in the audits carried out since the application of the law until the end of this reporting period. The total basic capital of the audit covered by the companies mentioned at the time of conversion was DM 23.4 billion. And the capital at the time of the audit was 19.5 billion DM, or 3.9 billion Marks smaller than the value at the time of conversion. The mentioned companies at the time of conversion had 538 thousand 726 employees, and at the time of the revision 209 thousand, 300, i.e. 329 thousand 426 employees less. Each report shall state the reasons for the reduction of employees. During the previous reporting period 274 audit applications have been processed and a total of 1210 applications have been processed since the application of the law. And 1357 were submitted. At the same time as the companies participating in the conversion in accordance with the provisions of Article 6. The law also covers 1634 owned companies. Of the 250 entities audited during this reporting period, 76 or 30.4% ended up in bankruptcy. In bankruptcy, not only did businesses end up for conversion and privatisation, a large number went into bankruptcy from business, however, the state audit office does not have the power to audit the business of privatised companies. In 16 societies of conversion and privatisation, they were carried out in accordance with the regulations, and the State Audit Office issued an opinion in accordance with the provisions of Article 19. The law on the revision of conversion and privatisation. In 180 companies, irregularities have been identified, which do not have the character of a criminal offence or offence. Of the irregularities found, 84% were suspected of having a criminal record. But 91 features of the offense. They're all out of date. Penalty concerns mainly the abuse of power in economic business. Abuse of positions and powers, failure to provide data, ownership of shares to the Securities Commission and others. The report on the work described an analysis of the data on 250 audited social enterprises and listed the most frequent irregularities that occurred in the process of conversion and privatisation. I will only list some groups of data that are numerically measurable. In 250 audits of social enterprises covered at the time of conversion, there were 93 thousand 194 employees, and at the time of the audit, 33 thousand 270, i.e. 59 thousand 924 less than or 64.3%. Of the 250 audited subjects, 34 or 13.6, the development programme was fully implemented. 74 companies or 29.6 in part. Until 142 societies or 56.8% achieved the objectives of the development programme. Also, every report on the Internet provides an explanation for why some programs have not been implemented, why some of them may have been changed, and when certain other actions have been taken. The evaluation of the value of social enterprises found that part of the assets involved in the assessment was estimated less by 41 million marks. That an estimate of the value of the company does not include assets of 94.2 million marks. That the overestimated liabilities of enterprises for already paid-off valorised loans amounting to 147.1 million marks. That construction buildings of 77,000 marks are not included in the assessment and that land of 1.4 million square meters is not included. According to the Privatisation Act, all assets that are not included in the conversion become state property, or if that does not allow a technological whole, then this is settled in another way, shares are issued. So there's no statute of limitations in these parts. At the end of this exhibition, I would point out once again that the office... audit is carrying out its task assigned to it by the Law on State Audit and Revision of Conversion and Privatisation, which is, our task undoubtedly to establish facts relating to the conversion and privatisation of each individual entity, or to determine whether the process of conversion and privatisation has been carried out in accordance with the applicable regulations and report this high house, and to take certain actions. At the same time, we also inform the Privatisation Fund of assets other than the State's Attorney's Office, if there were any other irregularities, the Tax Administration if there were any unpaid liabilities. To assess whether the privatisation objectives set out in Article 1 have been achieved. The Privatization Act. Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen, I am in this report concerning this period, and already in preparation and in other reports we have listed some basic data, and here we are, with my associate, that we can answer all questions, explanations or some ambiguity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9391	Thank you very much, Mrs. Krasic. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? The Committee on the Economy. The board president, Mr. Gordan Jandrokovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9392	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and fellow MPs. The Committee on the Economy, Development and Reconstruction of the Croatian Parliament at the 5th session held on 22 March 2004 discussed the report on the work on the implementation of the revision of the conversion and privatisation and the report on the revisions of the conversion and privatisation carried out by the President of the Croatian Parliament to the State Office for the Review of the Act of 16 January 2004. The Committee shall be in... Article 67. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament discussed the above reports as a parent working body. In the opening statement, the applicant's representative explained the reports submitted. Without discussion, the Committee unanimously decided to propose a conclusion to the Croatian Parliament. The work report on the implementation of the revision of conversion and privatisation and the report on the audits of conversion and privatisation carried out shall be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9393	Thank you very much. The chairman of the Finance Committee, Mr. Shime Wrestler.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9394	Thank you very much. Once again, at the previous point, I was confused and started with this, most of us would have liked to have come together to realize, but here's what the board has discussed. The Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament discussed at the 5th session of March of the 25th Report on the work on the implementation of the revision of conversion and privatisation, the Report was carried out in a Revised Conversion and Privatisation, which was submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the State Office for the Review of the Act of 16 January 2004. The Committee on Finance and the State Budget on the basis of... This Regulation shall enter [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament discussed it as the parent body. Uh, I kind of skip over to speed it up a little bit, of course. The conclusion will be correct. In its opening statement, the representative of the State Audit Office stressed that the reports in question were submitted to the Croatian Assembly in accordance with the provision of Article 10. The law on the revision of conversion and privatisation. This is the 6th report on the work on the implementation of the audit and conversion and privatisation and concerns the revision of conversion and privatisation into 250 social enterprises that were carried out from the beginning of June to the end of November 2003. The Committee discussed that indicators obtained by data analysis for 250 social enterprises confirm that the process of conversion and privatisation in most cases did not achieve the objectives set out in Article 1. The law on privatisation is: faster economic growth, the preservation of productive unemployment, technological modernisation, the introduction of new, modern efficient methods and management skills and other objectives. In fact, the value of the underlying capital, the companies analysed at the time of the conversion amounted to 3 million 484 thousand 502 kuna, stamps, etc., and at the time of the audit, the share capital was 3 billion, i.e. 3 billion, 3 billion 31 million 856 thousand 655. Which is less than 425 million 645 577 DEM. It was then measured in the DEMs. Or it's 12.99%. In addition, the total number of employees was reduced from 93,000 194 at the time of conversion to 33,000 270 at the time of the audit or 59,000 924 employees, or around 64%. In fact, the number of employees increased in only 21 companies, while in 229 companies there was a reduction in the number of employees, with the number of employees being reduced by more than 50% in 67.6. Of the 250 audited companies, 34 companies have fully achieved the development programme, 74 in part and 142 companies or 56%, 57 almost failed to achieve the objectives set by the development programmes. The management of companies or creditors initiated bankruptcy proceedings on 76 companies, which accounts for 30.4% of the total number of companies audited during that period. In the context of identified irregularities in the privatisation process and in the process of those companies, social enterprises have been identified as almost identical to the irregularities identified by the review of the entities analysed in previous reporting periods. Of the 250 audited entities of 200, 495 irregularities were identified until out of 50 audited entities irregularities in privatisation and business were identified. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of The Law on the Review of Conversion and Privatisation If, in the review procedure, the conversion of privatisation determines the existence of actions which have the characteristics of the criminal part, commercial offence or pecuniary activity, it submits a notification to the competent national attorney's office or to another competent authority which we have heard before in the report. It seems to me already at... 31 criminal charges have been filed with the competent state attorney's office, while 26 criminal charges have been filed with 21 audited law offices, from other entities. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, in 36 companies, 45 irregularities have been identified which are suspected of having a sign of a misdemeanour but have become obsolete. In order to initiate an infringement procedure or an absolute limitation for the conduct of proceedings, applications will not be submitted. After the debate was held, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament decided to unanimously propose the next conclusion to the Croatian Parliament. The report on the work on the implementation of the audit, conversion and privatisation and the reports on the audits of conversion and privatisation carried out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9395	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. First on behalf of the IDS Representatives Club, Mr Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9396	Dear Mr. Vice President, esteemed gentlemen representatives of the audit, distinguished gentlemen of the council. As we just heard from Mrs. Šima Krasic, there are six ahead of us. Report on the implementation of the revision of conversion and privatisation. These proceedings were initiated by the Law which entered into force on 24 June 2001. To this day we heard 1269 former social enterprises had been audited, and 245 of them had failed. Based on all these reports, there's only one thing that can be concluded is that this kind of audit in our Court of Justice at the IDS Club didn't have and it doesn't have any sense, the people would say, "Come on, gentlemen, let's get out of the weeds business." These audits defacto legalize I dare say the greatest immorality since the arrival of the Slovenians to these premises. It's just that the people were shaking the hills again and the time was born is the same for themselves to admit, and what the people know is that for 5,000 euros, everyone will have a bad time in this country, but for 5 million euros, you can do whatever you want, nothing will happen to you, but you will have the best legal protection and you will be the cariatide of this society. I thought I'd read a letter from a union commissioner from the budi digitron, but I can only give up the fact that she naively believes in an audit I hold that there has never been a will in this country to carry out. First. The defacto audit is inconclusive. Second. As for someone's responsibility who participated in it, it's been more than 10 years since the conversion, in some cases since the conversion and privatisation, 13 years, 14, and in those cases, time has done its part. The Institutes of Obsolescence have done their part. Third. If today were to come under quotes of "real" revision, i.e. Her annulment on the basis of one of the most banal questions if someone was asked by gentlemen, tell them where you got $55 or $10 million in 91 or 92 when the country's average salary was 150 marks the entire economic system would collapse. There wouldn't even be a stone on the stone in this country. You today cannot exempt these gentlemen who have acquired Croatian companies under Croatian laws from the economy as immoral as their acquisition of property, because after the state privatised the banks, they would have lost a single kuna loan and they simply couldn't do business. The damage means that it was made by the basis of conversion and was enormous would not be comparable to the damage that would have been done by the audit. I think it's also aware of the state's audit, and that's why it's obvious and legalized and some of the actions done. It should also be acknowledged, however, that the conversion was made under Croatian laws, it was based on immoral, harmful, imperfect Croatian laws or Croatian laws. It was carried out in a storm when 1/3 of Croatia was occupied when the second third was on the battlefield and the third one supported the defacto 2/3 of Croatia. And that's the problem, is it because of the goal of getting to 200 wealthy families whose names we've never known. Now that's another thing, but all that converted immorality wouldn't have been possible if it hadn't been by chance done during the war. To be clear, the situation of the Croatian economy is not only about conversion. Far more devastating was the war that had put “de facto” out of operation 1/3 of the Croatian economy. A far more destructive element for the state of the Croatian economy than the transformation itself was, for example, the loss of the ex-Yugoslavian market and finally a far more destructive element for the state of the Croatian economy since the conversion was the loss of, say, the clearing market but no one can dispute all the damage that the nation's morals brought to this country's privatisation. I am experiencing these reports in a way that the State Review has found facts and has in some way taken over the task of preserving the existing situation. Consider the example of “Viktor Lenc”. Everything is done by law. Everything like that “Operation succeeded, patient died.” First, 22.12.1992 30 employees led by Mr. Vrhovnik took over 49.9% of the company nominal value 13.2 million marks for which they received those famous managerial loans from the Rijeka Bank but everything was legal. So I quote page 6: “SDK 26.3.1992 shows that the annual accounting was fully in accordance with the Law.” On page 10 of this report for the company, the agency agreed on 30 November 1992 on the basis of this opinion in conversion and so on. The fact that it's an investment in the purchase of a new... The estimated 113 million U.S. dollars is something that was planned and long before 2000 and which was paid long before 2000, but it is obvious that the megalomania submerged one of the most prominent at that time by socialist companies, and with it it was submerged to hundreds of small cooperatives that nobody seems to care about being left without an apartment, without a house, without property, and many probably without health, so here is what they advocated so they could get to work to literally say, on page 26, I said, "The targets planned by the development program were mostly achieved." So the operation was successful, the patient exhaled. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] And to be cynical, God forbid that the goals planned by the development program are largely not achieved. And then we wonder why individuals are hurt. Those little “lank” cooperatives, for example, craftsmen. We need to know fit all of our assets and not one can be left without a house because of what he did for nothing in “Lenca”, and companies, let's say, to get a job they had to pay VAT to the state of Croatia after the invoice. Fourth. These big privatized systems, I'd dare say, can end up being calm. They today have real power, economic power, and whoever has economic power in some way has a good influence on political power. They finance political parties' campaigns, from their ranks are called state secretaries, ministerial assistants, directors of customs administrations and so on, and after the end of business, they can all return to their parent companies. Finally, if the State gave an example to Agrocor, the guarantee for the loan to the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development in the amount of either 250 million marks or 250 million dollars, the orderly service of this loan is not only the problem of Agrocora but is the problem of the state, and surely this paradigm of state guarantees is this “Lenac”. I say, I claim large companies in every country are also a major problem of parent countries. Fiat wasn't just one problem... He's always the problem of the Italian government. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Swiss Air, after bankruptcy, is not only a problem for their shareholders but also a problem for the Swiss government. I don't know, one “Rover” is not only a problem for English shareholders but also for the English government, but I argue that it is a bad thing that more and more Croatian political life will depend on political will and large Croatian, Croatian companies such as in a small Rovinj case in this TDR. I certainly wish that company every good, but it's not good for her to get involved in political life. This review also deals with TDR. No doubt the agency is 1991. 11.11. said: “All is according to the law” and I quote page 10: “The net book value was 95.9 million dinars or 13.7 million marks, and after the deduction of the discount to employees for internal shares of 50.1 million dinars or 7.1 million marks the value of social capital was 45.8 million dinars or 6.5 million marks”. So from this point on, out of those 6.5 million marks, there are now five more than 50% of the companies that have been estimated at one billion euros. And God forbid that, at the end of that billion EUR, you invest in Istria, and everything needs to be done even though I don't believe it because tourism is a low-accumulated branch except that it doesn't have to be possible for them to say without compensation to get to the so-called. tourist land. But I'll say that too, that difference of six and a half million marks. Up to two billion marks or a billion euros now worth today, or 350 times more than 1991, yes, I dare say the value of political ties. That's why I'm saying capital will manage Croatia. That's bad, first of all in Croatia. He should not be confirmed in the elections and he is far more unrespectable and than the most ruthless politician. That I am right, that nothing can happen to all those involved in the conversion, and that the fact that this material is eloquently confirming that, yes, because of the irregularities of conversion or privatisation so far, “de facto” has been issued one or two rightful verdicts. I don't normally want to punish anyone. Once again, I will say: the far more devastating effect than the Croatian conversion for the Croatian economy had war, the loss of the market in ex Yugoslavia because, I don't know 1 digitron from Buje, which I already mentioned, my scales, his computers couldn't sell in London or Paris, he could, you know, sell them in Moscow, Sarajevo and Skopje, and we also have to keep that in mind as well as not to talk about, I don't know, say, a negative growth rate in, when we know that in 1999 there was a NATO impact on SR Yugoslavia, so the country was left without tourist income. And for the end. IDS was not only the first party to propose differentiated VAT rates in 1996 but in 1997 or 1998 we again offered as the first parliamentary party a full law in the revision of conversion. Perhaps then the revision of the conversion in 1997 or 1998 made sense. Today, you should look into each other's eyes and admit that the revision of conversion and privatisation in Croatia no longer makes sense. It's hard for me to admit it, but it's true. That's what we're aware of here. We are aware of the ongoing audit of foreign capital will not enter Croatia, Croatia, such as during the Ljubljana Bank and Istria tourists' dispute over the debt that the company has towards the Ljubljanska Banka, Zagrebačka banka or their Italian owners, and above the Italians are again German shareholders “de facto” cannot privatise the company. And it should also be kept in mind what I said this morning or foreign capital will come to the Republic of Croatia or our citizens will follow that capital into the world. It's clear that I was and I was the first against conversion, privatisation especially of one to be fought in the war. It's clear I've been audited. The first we said, in IDS we proposed this law, but after this, I dare say the impotent 6th report in the revision of conversion I just don't believe. No one is likely to believe in her. The poor woman will continue to live with the audit without review. The Tacuns became the carotids of Croatian society, the redistribution of social wealth today was carried out, and today whoever has it, and in one word today 2004, unfortunately we can't go back to 1992. And secondly, while the audit is ongoing, we may not be dealing with any other crucial issues, out of liquidity, unemployment, external debt, not entering foreign capital by falling of a gross social product. And in some ways I don't know maybe we're blocking the Croatian judiciary when this moment is next. All in all, the revision of conversion and privatisation can say she didn't bring anything. And the conversion from 92, 93 or 94 to this country was mostly bad. But today it's a pass, such an act of mine won't be liked by many but my opinion is close to the truth, finally coming from the middle I come from Buzet and where there's no conversion of the system of funkcinor where it's all gone down. And one Buzet is a serdine where every other citizen is employed, where the unemployment rate is 2 to 2 percent. Ms. without imports of labour from Slovenia and other surrounding cities, we cannot hold an economic base, where exports per capita are over $9,000. Which is probably a simple case in the Republic of Croatia. That all the fortunes are always clearly not always well confirmed by these abductions that are happening to us. I don't know from the Zagorec General of the kidnapping of the son of Luke Rajic if that's true, he denied it. But all in all I think about is a huge problem and what's happening today with the Croatian revision, I think it's a political laruculatism in which little anyone in this assembly and outside of this assembly can believe. And lastly, I would just like to say that when these topics are that the Croatian Parliament does not follow and Croatian Radio Television. This certainly would not be possible at a time when some other political options led this House.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9397	I also agree that television should be broadcast. But she's independent and like that. Besides, it doesn't say in the Rules of Procedure that anyone's exposure has to like either one or yours. Correction of the incorrect quote Mr. Bitunac.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9398	Reverend Caine told me this. That the process of conversion and privatisation was final over 10, 12 years ago. There has been a statute of limitations for many illegal shops. This is precisely the process of conversion and privatisation that is still taking place today. Privatization is also carried out through bankruptcy mainly in these four years. So if there were any negative actions for them there is always room to explore and on the other hand I repeat the re-priatisation process has not been completed he is still ongoing.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9399	The opinion of one another. On behalf of the SDP club, Mr. Mato Arlovic, vice president of the House.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9400	Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. On behalf of the SDP club, let me say that we will report on the work on the implementation of the revision of the conversion and privatisation report on the performance, the revision of the conversion and privatisation as a club to accept and support me. So we suggest that he accepts to support himself in this home. Of course you should say right away and why. Because the report practically repeats itself in some of the findings and facts that the audit finds. So the audit found this time with these 250 companies that were not involved in the estimated value of the company. It was then passed the less estimated value of the assets which had not been assessed and which was less evaluated, which was introduced into the assets of the undertakings. Then she found priceless assets that were also introduced into the company and then land that had been entered and were not evaluated or paid, construction facilities and certain other things. It encountered irregularities in the conversion to a part of the asset not included in the assessment, business bank claims were converted into shares in the underlying valorisation of already paid loans, the capitalisation was not carried out in accordance with the conversion programme of the invested funds. They weren't spent on purpose. Then there were irregularities in privatisation, such as companies financed by a shareholder after the purchase of shares. For the acquisition of its own shares, no legal requirements have been met, a steering line has been used on the basis of transferred and unpaid shareholders from small shareholders. And, of course, business irregularities such as those relating primarily to the sale of assets that are not included in the assessment, the corresponding dividend has not been paid for the benefit of shareholders and in particular for the benefit of the Croatian Privatisation Fund where he is a majority owner or where he participates in the ownership of shares in the underlying capital. A share in the assets of companies with bitter liability. It remains that the recovery has not been implemented in accordance with the recovery programme and that, of course, privatisation programmes that were to be established under the privatisation law have not been implemented. When all of this is looked at or taken and reads this entire report, there are certain trends, and I would say the legalitys that are present in this report. It appears that a steady increase in capital that is not constantly increasing in the economy rather than coming out of the economy, i.e., it is better to constantly reduce capital in the economy that are in the audited enterprises and, for example, because of the fact that a rate of 16.5% is mentioned in the larger companies. Small businesses 12.99%. The number of companies in the group of medium and large enterprises is then reduced, the number of small and medium-sized enterprises is increasing. The total value of the company’s capital is reduced at the time of the audit compared to the time of conversion. The number of employees, the share of employees and former employees in the ownership structure of certain companies is reduced, on the other hand, by their share capital. It is significantly reduced at the time of the revision compared to the time of conversion. As a rule, the ownership structure corresponds to the management structure, and even more interestingly it shows that the steering struktura where it corresponds to the ownership structure is more successful than that management structure that is not connected or does not match the ownership structure, of course, here it is thought of both the administrations and the supervisory boards. Furthermore, there is a growing trend of buying shares from the Croatian Privatization Fund, from employees and other shareholders and from society itself. These bank conversions in favour of banks related to loans and loans. The majority of companies did not improve their business, the greater number of companies due to difficulties and the inability to settle the obligations of management or creditors are initiating bankruptcy proceedings to settle claims against such companies. There is an increasing number of companies where in open bankruptcy there are board members and monitoring committees are not b orl owners. So, in which bankruptcy is opened on board members and supervisory boards, they were not the owners, which shows that in fact the legal changes that forced administrations to open up bankruptcy have also been beneficial. Furthermore, it is shown that the growing number of companies that are audited is an increasing number of those whose owner becomes a fund and becomes Croatian banks, i.e. in general as such, which shows in fact a new tendency to state and at the same time to move the ownership structure of the core capital of companies to us in the banking sphere, which is also present in Western Europe, i.e. the European Union. In particular, it should be observed that the relationship between private and public ownership, i.e. where para-state property appears, such as that of the Privatisation Fund, is somehow more successful than the Privatisation Fund when it comes to the management structure. All of this points to one of the conclusions. First, the Law on Auditing, Conversion and Privatisation was justified and necessary for its adoption to prove true and second, that the law after it had been implemented in the audit gave the proper results because it had found a whole series of irregularities in the audited societies. Let us not forget that it is now 1269 societies, so almost half the total number of companies that participated in the conversion. Another thing that should be seen is that our economy in relation to the situations and the indicators showing these revised reports has been poored, it is depreciated or weaned, then it has been significantly drained from the underlying capital and that instead of in the economy, it has actually ended up in public and private consumption. In addition, the Commission notes that there is no need for the Commission to assess whether the State aid is compatible with the internal market and whether the State aid is compatible with the internal market and whether the State aid is compatible with the internal market and whether the aid is compatible with the internal market or whether it is compatible with Thereafter, it was also necessary to amend the State Audit Act which authorised the state audit to be able to initiate certain procedures such as applications, criminal charges, criminal charges, criminal charges, criminal charges, etc. Because the more frequent the number of these situations that it encounters. A very serious question opens up in such a situation. If there is a large number, which is capital, which appears as anonymous capital, which is the result of practically conversion and privatisation, which has been transferred to private hands and to private property, then the question is actually raised again whether it is necessary in a certain way if it is not possible to process everything through criminal responsibility or criminal liability, is it possible, for example, through tax instruments to resolve this issue. We of the SDP believe that and should pass a single tax law by which such property acquired in such a way or from those sources of income should be taxed on a one-off basis that at least in a certain way the social community and the state community in a certain way obtains an appropriate ratio in relation to such capital used. When all together is taken, of course, along with honorable exceptions which, based on conversion and privatisation, came to an appropriate ownership structure, eventually restructured their businesses and became very successful economic operators that have become profitable, which create new jobs, but these are unfortunately exceptions. So with these honorable exceptions, one can actually get out one legality. As the number of audited reports increases, the number of workers who have lost their jobs is increased, then the number of companies going bankrupt increases. The number of large societies that turn into middle and small societies. It then increases the number of companies in bankruptcy and the level of capital, the underlying capital which is also in bankruptcy and, of course, the underlying capital that is transferred through shares, dividends and other forms practically becomes the share of banks and funds and, of course, the share of capital that is transferred from companies to individuals, i.e. either the owner or management structures in these companies. There's another law that needs to be seen. The increase in the number of companies acquired and audited, i.e. companies, faces an increase in the number of acts that have the character of criminal liability or criminal liability, then the number, but unfortunately the number of entities whose criminal, or criminal liability falls into obsolescence due to the expiry of time. And in this respect, they wanted me to or did not want to admit it in part, and the Croatian Parliament as a legislative body bears part of the responsibility which is not on time, and there were such initiatives to remind the SDP's Club of Representatives, it proposed a law on the revision of conversion as early as 98. He did not adopt himself, and unfortunately he did not adopt himself, and if he had been adopted long ago, we could have opened up some of these issues and many of these works would not have fallen into obsolescence and fortunately that after 2000, the coalition government had accepted the adoption of this law and that this issue was actually opened. We are, in this regard, contrary to our colleague Caine, who had previously spoken, because it is simply impossible for these issues to happen, that they should not be seen, that they should not be exposed, and in the end that the question of responsibility is not raised legally which is possible in civil society, but of course, in this context remains the moral question that we cannot circumvent. Namely, there is another legality. The audit audits the conversion, i.e. the privatisation of companies which have carried out under the law, and determines whether a legal procedure is legal, respectful, whether conversion and privatisation have been legally implemented and whether the funds used legally in the conversion and privatisation that actually appeared to be included in the shares and the underlying capital that was thus created with the companies. However, the particular issue remains, which is a moral question, whether these laws of moral nature were those that should have allowed all equally to participate in the conversion and privatisation of former social capital that they had achieved through their work, management, knowledge and skills. Unfortunately, there is no answer to this question, and it does not provide this revision, and it cannot give an answer, but we all know that in many cases it has often occurred and not only illegality, but also great immorality, or injustice, which has been done to a particular group of workers in certain companies, or individual economic activities and individual entities. In this context, it should be pointed out in particular that the set of circumstances in which the Republic of Croatia and its citizens, i.e. the social community, which is war and war destruction, fear of life and fear of survival, often brought about by a small, or large, relatively large number of shareholders, workers who have been created by conversion and privatisation through the so-called so-called “Privatisation”. privatization with, conversion and privatisation with a discount, that it actually forced them to obtain funds for life because it was insufficient to earn the profits they had made so that they could survive, how-so worthy of life they and their family members and that they had actually started to sell and resell, to leave their shares to the new tycoons who had appeared in us, both unfortunately and through the transfer of management powers to a management structure that often ignored their interest by leading to the interests of themselves and their respective groups, i.e. their interests. For all these reasons, it is clear that it is necessary to support and strengthen the state audit to continue the work on the state audit, that procedures should be launched as soon as possible before the judicial and other bodies, the competent authorities of the state authorities, in order to actually give the right word and that measures can be taken to mitigate the adverse consequences of such transformations and privatisations that have taken place in our country, which cost practically the state and social community of Croatia, and the hardest hit by workers and former workers in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9401	Thank you very much, colleague. The following came forward for discussion by representative Zeljko Pecek on behalf of the HSS club. Here you go, my colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9402	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about the amendments to the Law adopted by this House, then certainly the State Audit Act that we have in this section, in order for the revision to be given jurisdiction to control the transformation, and the privatisation of businesses may also have brought the highest expectations. I'd dare say perhaps the biggest disappointment. In any case, expectations were made by those small shareholders who in good faith and intent bought their former good businesses that were liquid business, in which they thought they would welcome their pension by receiving regular salaries and perhaps a few dividends for the stocks they had bought at that time in that good faith. But right now, here's when we read this report, which is the 6th report, regardless of what we get every 6 months, we realize that what we expected in some way we got in a disappointing form because the revision concludes procedures within its quality work. It speaks of some past time that can no longer be returned and not only that the punishment of responsibility has been misused from that time but all those who have used time to use the original accumulation of capital, in order to get one of the known ways of ownership, were able to legally round up so that they would not be responsible for their actions, or they knew some strategic investments with strategic partners to conclude such contracts that simply neither the state nor anyone else dared because of potential other investors and relations to Croatia would tear up such contracts. I would say that this is one statistical display, unfortunately, of incorrect data, to use that old statistical data, that data is incorrect because the moment we read the revision, it's certainly even more people who work in these societies that are out of work. The state lost a few more shares from the portfolio because companies went bankrupt, and according to the old rule, small shareholders also lost because they stopped paying no longer believing in some perspective of the companies from which the shares bought. It is an interesting figure on the number of companies to be audited. It's slightly lower than 3,000 subjects, specifically 2,000 911, where privatisation was conducted. Here in the towers I've heard how well it would be to come to terms with this report that we discuss every six months and say how dogs bark and caravans pass. However, it would probably be good to find out that it is true that dogs are barking, and caravans are passing through, but some have passed. Some caravans have already gone into some oasis, often tax havens, for those who knew how to use all these cracks in laws, and I will feel free to say in our actions and previous, previous and current authorities. We realized that not all assets were evaluated because it was a trend and I think that these indicators and in the final, final part of the revision will be able to be read with much larger numbers and much higher values. We'll also read about how companies owned banks who went through some strange... There were allegedly unpaid loans. [[You don't understand.]] Of course, we're going to figure out how the management loans that were uncovered were used when the factory was often bought, and the mortgage was given for the meadow. We're going to figure out how the stock was deposited without actually knowing their value in order to get those loans back. It was such a model, we will continue to talk about the concept of 200 families in Croatia, the concept of privileged families that were fortunately completely ruined because of those 200-thins who were destined to succeed in something or get something and what they had not been able to manage, and in the good part they were left without it. However, all of this happened in some, I would say, long ago in 92, 93, and we will continue to say that the portfolio stock was probably scattered between the Privatisation Fund, between the Pension Insurance Fund. He was also scattered against the defenders, against the victims of war. We'll also talk about a criterion that was very important when the company was buying, and it was called capitalization. It was called the Development Programme, that all these capitalisations were carried out, that all these development programmes were achieved Croatia would probably today be promised a country in which last-generation equipment would be used for new technologies and where actually the unemployment rate would probably be the lowest in this part of Europe. However, instead of those strong promises to launch production with strong investments, how we will move towards exports, how we will reverse trends, something else happened. What happened was what could be expected when incompetent people, often politically chosen, began to create a model and conversion and a way to implement privatisation, when they tried and acted through supervisory committees, through poor administrations, the result was known. However, who is the greatest winner of this privatisation? The winner is gone. I think we're all losers. Most of all, they lost small shareholders. 650 thousand small shareholders stopped paying for shares they mainly bought in their businesses, and to make the paradox bigger, they stopped paying the shares they actually paid off. Because they paid the shares for the first two, three years, paying about 15 to 20% of their value, and in the inability to pay them the contract is broken, and at the same time to see how their nomination is today on the market, if they can even sell on the market, about 5 to 10%. So they lost what they also paid off. The peace funds were devastated because shares were replaced by nominals. I would not want to elaborate here what is a substitute for nominals, however, often the shares that were at that time worth several hundred marks changed for some others that were worth several thousand and so on. It also took place except for replacements and non-transparent sales on the basis of some discretionary rights which were then used. Of course, the victims of the Homeland War who got through coupon privatisation through those stocks also had to sell them, I'd say, for invaluable survival. That value of their nominal shares was 5.10, no more than 20%. Of course, the Defense Fund, which was also created using shares, is ruined, suddenly we read in the paper that it's actually gone. This report actually concludes what happened with a thousand 269 audited companies. The most important thing is to say that the core capital and the moment of conversion was 23 billion and 400 million kuna, so that at the moment of the audit it would now be 19 billion and 400 million. What is very important and very bad at the same time, out of the observed thousands of 260 societies, 240 ended up in the acquired procedure. And it's actually the data that's really bad, but it's not even the scariest. I believe the most terrible piece of information in this report is job loss. 538 thousand jobs at the time of conversion, 209 at the time of revision or 329 thousand lost jobs. Deadline for the completion of this job according to revision plan 31. 12 this year. I expect, of course, that after 31. 12. get similar devastating results. But it's going to be interesting, because then we'll see data for companies that are mostly co-financed from the state budget, which used some privileged loans, which used some guarantees, we'll see the companies that were the subject of coupon privatisation. We'll see how there's been an exchange of shares about what claims have been written off, and we'll probably be able to judge why. And I'm sure some will actually wonder, where did that great money end up, which was first accumulated by the Privatisation Fund, and then scattered according to some categories of citizens. I'll only mention the number, 3 billion 668 billion marks ended up in a coupon privatisation towards the returnees, the disabled of the Homeland War, the families of the missing. Whether they've just felt these 3 billion and 668 million kunas will be interesting to observe in the final report, I say they're not. Because shares were put into circulation at the worst time, when various speculators bought them for a value of 5 to 10%. But what we can make completely reliable with the past is less likely to agree that it is difficult to do anything of quality, and in fact, legally, it is almost impossible to do anything because of old age, because of the procedures that have already been completed. Let's at least try to do something for what's in front of us. I'm going to go back five to the state estate fund, which should be able to manage what's left of us, and then eventually sell with what's left. I think that the advantage should be given to small shareholders, that we should return that category of employees, because I say these are the biggest losers in the whole process. It also requires a new Privatisation Act. I think it is also urgent and we will probably be able to reach some consensus here in parliament. In order to make sure that the final review report finds a bad past, because it is what it is, unfortunately and bad, but that it eventually finds a better future for the government portfolio, for small shareholders, and for employees. I just believe that such a final report is possible, we will support this as it is, but we would like to try to do what is possible in this area after the final report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9403	Thank you very much, dear colleague. Next up is Club Libre. Representative Jozo Radoš. Here you go, my colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9404	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, Madam State, Chief State Auditor, colleagues and fellow MPs and MPs. Here, as has already been established here, it is quite certain, therefore, that the conversion and privatisation in Croatia, not only has it not received the expected and desired results, but that in many aspects it has been very problematic, even the criminal process and these data speak about it. The data we have for a total of 1269 audited companies, through the State Audit Office, say that about 329 thousand people lost their jobs, more than 60% compared to the number of people in these companies, and that 245 companies have opened up bankruptcy proceedings or liquidations, i.e. for these companies that are involved here, in this report 250, 76. So 30% of the companies experienced bankruptcy or liquidation. Of course, this in itself says that it is a failed process. And I think that the real ones who speak, even if it's hard to say, is that the effect of privatisation on job conservation, i.e. job creation, is actually more important than that moral aspect. But unfortunately, we didn't win that goal here either. We, therefore, have completely soiled, i.e. those who have carried out privatisation, have dirtyed this moral aspect of privatisation, marked by abuse and crime, and have not achieved this other, which is, therefore, the effectiveness of privatisation in terms of the country's economic business. Some of the data listed here speak very clearly about the extent to which this process was to blame and to what extent it still has negative consequences for the development of the Croatian economy today. So it is said that the share of the fund with more than 50% of the companies concerned is higher today than at the time of privatisation. That means the privatisation failed in that segment. It was not the idea that those companies not in the first wave were privatised and remained ownership in the hands of the fund, that they were increasing, but that these companies were increasing by other privatisation processes, by continuing to privatise the functioning of the stock market, etc. that the number of these companies is mentioned, reduced. But here, therefore, the share of funds in companies with more than 50% ownership is higher today than at the time of privatisation, which speaks of, of course, a very bad, parallel privatisation process, which has its negative effects on the economic development of the country. Another very negative fact is that the share of employees owned by companies by more than 50% has dropped by more than 50%. What was the goal of at least some were the goal of privatization, which is that societies get ownership from employees and that thus develops small shareholders, this objective unfortunately failed and, of course, it has been said many times in this Assembly. But you need to say it again. The share of employees has been cut in half. Employees who had a share of ownership of more than 50% have halved from the time of privatisation, i.e. conversion and the time when this report is being done, which is just as bad a figure as this first one I was talking about, which means increasing the share of funds in societies with more than 50% ownership. It is, of course, negative in itself, but as a confirmation of that, I will list the same data mentioned here in this report, which is that the achievement of the development programme, which is actually the highest development goal of privatisation aside now those moral aspects, is achieved only in 13.60% of the societies, and at least where societies were mostly owned, owned by the fund. Only in 4.08% of companies where the fund was a majority owner, the remaining majority owner after privatisation was achieved a development programme. On the contrary, where small shareholders were majority owners, which means employees and former employees, the development programme was achieved in 29.27% of cases, therefore, more than 7 times, more than in the case of the fund, i.e. the majority owner. It speaks of the fact that this privatisation process was, therefore, morally undeniably wrong but what I repeat is even harder than that for the future of this country is that it was ineffective. That this is so, it says that the State Audit Office, that only 16 positive opinions are based on the law, that they are therefore, that the conversion is carried out in accordance with the law, therefore, without illegal actions and that the development programme has been achieved at the same time. These two requirements and one and the other, of course, are very important and of 250 and 200, yes, 250 companies achieved only 16. And that's what's truly devastating. And that this efficiency of privatisation was achieved then all of this could somehow be forgotten and forgiven, but the consequences of what we've been feeling so sadly today and for a long time. Another information from this report is actually very devastating, the data that says that, that the loans that followed privatisation at the time were less than the overestimated parts of credit liabilities, which was actually a conscious reduction in the value of the company in order to buy it more easily, so this is an apparent fraud and robbery. So, as reduced as they are, the reduced value of enterprises due to overestimated credit liabilities that have already been paid off by the loans that our banks have been following our economy, i.e. this privatised part is even smaller than that. Which is actually saying that there was no real economic policy. And that's why today is what it is. But what of it today, what do we have? Contrary to those who think that and say that this privatisation, this revision is pointless, the Club of Libre believes that it should be continued to show that justice still exists even if it comes late, that the state is increasingly becoming a legal state. In order for those who would do illegal actions, to have an educational effect on them and, of course, because of the dignity of the institutions that started this process, therefore, the Croatian Parliament and the State Audit Office, this privatisation should continue, and this revision should continue and end as it was started. Privatisation is certainly not a political hit in a country where politics is more and more similar to estradi, but nevertheless this is an important process that also has positive long-term effects to strengthen citizens' confidence in the country and therefore the process of review should continue and end as it has begun. It seems to me that now the process is halfway, it is slow, its effects are direct and very small but because of these positive effects on citizens' awareness that the state is still becoming a legal state in the revision should continue. In parallel, I was preparing myself for this debate and remembered the reports of the State Attorney's Office submitted to the Croatian Assembly in July of last year and, accordingly, the Club of Libre proposes that every debate on the revision of conversion and privatisation, every half-yearly debate, that is, we also have reports from the State's Attorney's Office. It would be logical to sit here today with the state auditor, or the state's chief auditor, and let's see how these two bodies work in parallel. If we could problematise both their work and further improve our cooperation here in the Assembly, as it says here in the reports, but for our sakes, for the sake of parliamentary representatives and for the sake of the Croatian public, it would be good that whenever we have a report from the State Audit Office we also have a report from the State's Attorney's Office on the handling of criminal charges filed by that same state audit. In this sense, it should be said that the results were also devastating but otherwise could not be. It was not possible to carry out a different audit than one that would rest on the decisions of the state authorities, in their responsibilities, and two of the most competent authorities are the State Audit Office and the Croatian judiciary. It would not be possible to carry out any revision that would rest solely on a political decision. They would never be able to, if it were to be acquittal to the charge of this rematch. Well then, after revasism, it always follows as is clearly a new rematchism. Therefore, this revision, however ineffective, is the only possible law, the state audit and afterwards the Croatian judiciary, however ineffective, and how ineffective this shows what I will briefly expose. And that is that so far, only one verdict has been reached regarding these applications by the State Audit Office. That the number of convictions is more relevant by liberating than in average other cases, and as reported in the State's Attorney's report, the complexity of the case, the difficulties in proving, the lack of regulations, what is meant by the laws and regulations, the difficulty of obtaining evidence, the course of time, the complexity of criminal acts, the long-term skills, the lack of qualified peers, etc., etc. We have all these problems both in the state audit and in the Croatian police and in the state's attorney's office, surely in Croatian courts, but however, colleagues and colleagues should continue and finish the procedure. And in order to better monitor it with all these shortcomings that I've been talking about, I repeat, Club LIBRE is proposing and this company concludes, i.e. the proposal for a conclusion is obtained and written on your benches that with each of the next reports of the State Audit Office on the implementation of the audit, conversion and privatisation we have a parallel report by the State's Attorney's Office on what has been done with regard to the processing of criminal reports by the State Audit Office. Therefore, with these arguments and with these objectives, the Club of Representatives will support the adoption, i.e. the adoption of this Report of the State Audit Office. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9405	Thank you very much, colleague. We have one notice. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure expired time to apply for 10 minutes in 17 hours and 6 minutes. Let's move on with the debate. We have one correction to an incorrect quote. Dear representative Ivana Sučec-Thrakostane. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9406	Madam Vice President, fellow MP, I am correcting the incorrect assumption that conversion and privatisation is a criminal process because it offends those who did not do so in this way. Therefore, I claim that this is the inevitable economic process in which it may have been, it was a crime but not a criminal process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9407	Thank you very much. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Probably because you haven't quite corrected the incorrect assumption, that's more of an opinion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9408	The Member of the Commission has violated Rule 214 of its Rules of Procedure because it has not corrected my incorrect claim. I didn't even say the whole privatisation was a criminal process. I was even talking about that privatisation is a desirable process but that privatisation was a crime that was undeniable and that fellow MP certainly can't fix it. So this was a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9409	Thank you very much. Then I, too, injured the Rules of Procedure because Article 214 states: “When a representative is given a warning” that I did not do so, it is a warning to me, not to the MPs. Let's move on with the debate. The next is on behalf of the HSP Club Tonci Tadic. Here you go, my colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9410	Dear Madam Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, respected gentlemen from the State Audit Office, there have already been a lot of speeches here about the character of privatisation in Croatia. I'll add a few, a few comments from the HSP. First of all, the Croatian Party of Rights insisted at the very beginning of the privatisation process that it is unacceptable for the process to take place in the wartime. Slovenians slowed their privatisation process, and Bosnians completely stopped for war. On the other hand, in Croatia, the privatisation course flowed smoothly regardless of what Croatia was in a state of war. In particular, a large part of the population could not participate in the privatisation process, and especially not in the way it was intended. As is known in Croatia, no coupon privatisation has been carried out, which gave equal chances at least nominally to all residents, but has been privatised through managerial loans. Apparently, there was talk of real customers, but real investors are notorous to the fact that only 10% of the money was collected while 90% of the money collected by privatisation is actually managed by management loans or by no means existing money. And this is the state Croatia was facing. So we were faced with companies being taken over by owners who had no capital in a country affected by the war, which is not interesting for foreign investment because the war zone, the war risk zone, and that it was enterprises that were in good shape and before privatisation. So if that's how it is, then it's hard to expect new owners to do some kind of desert wonders. In fact, no one could realistically expect it, but what the Croats expected, what the Croats wanted from privatisation, was that it would pass into as many legal frameworks, that if anything else respects the Privatisation Act and that people were not considered damaged after the whole process. But today, when we look at the privatisation process, and unfortunately through the state audit, we come to the conclusion that the whole thing was, on the one hand, catastrophically ill-conceived, and on the other hand, that it produced even more catastrophic results. These findings we have here collected and presented in the State Audit report show what is less known to everyone. So in only 13% of the companies that have been audited here, the development programme has been fully achieved, and in others 80 percent is not at all. If, therefore, the goal was to reach a new owner who would conduct investments, who would modernise business, then it simply did not happen. And I think that's the biggest minus the existing privatisation model. What is tragic, though, is that we should actually make a new law on privatisation, taught by such experiences. However, the new Privatisation Act is simply gone to this day. What is also tragic is that the number of employees in privatised companies is more than halved. He's reduced practically to one-third. A bankruptcy procedure has also been opened over a third of the companies. We can now, of course, argue that this is the result of war events and difficult circumstances in which the Croatian economy was, but it is truly amazing that part of them has entered such a situation, the situation of bankruptcy in the first place is not for the sake of war, but for the incompetent management that took over during the privatisation, or for the management that has not made investments to which it has committed. And that's the basic reason HSP insists on, we insisted all these years that the Privatisation Act be changed in a way that the new owner does not become the real owner until he makes all the investments he has promised. If anyone were to enter a partnership with someone for their private crafts, it is clear that this partner would get rid of his business partner, his partner would not make the investments that were agreed upon. But here at privatization, it was perfectly normal and completely normal and nothing to anyone. So that's why we've advocated this privatisation to Leasing, as we named it, by which the new owner wouldn't become the real owner until he made all the investments, but here by today's new Privatisation Act has not been made. We may have to do it ourselves. From this entire set of audited companies, I have singled out two hundred of them only some that are truly typical examples. On the one hand, we have a case of Geophysics where the purchase of shares is agreed for one amount of money, and then value assessments have been made, with an estimated value of no less than 4 or several times higher than that of the company before that. Another typical example is the company Pomgrad which was privatised, which had 46% of shares in the hands of small shareholders, which had all the chances of success because it was an unprobably professional company with rare quality references in the Mediterranean and which, despite all this, ended up in bankruptcy together for unexplained reasons and I would say most likely because in the course of bankruptcy, it can really come to valuable properties especially for those on the coast, and Pomgrad, as we know, had its own facilities that are on the coast and which, in this way, through the bankruptcy procedure, can be obtained for truly symbolic money. The third example is, of course, all that applies to the privatisation of hotel houses. And now that difference exists depending on the part of Croatia that looks at this particular example. In Dubrovnik, virtually all the companies were affected by a monster called the Dubrovnik Bank that concluded credit agreements with them, slowly booked on their shares, converted those claims into their stakes. In virtually all these companies, the estimated value of land is completely wrong. So it's one thing in common with all of them one common place of all privatisations of hotel houses and it's simply because all of these hotel houses have been scattered with the most common quality land in these places. And that's why again because the cities that have decided to have hotel complexes in their area to hire as many of their citizens as possible have to do their best to make sure that they want to do their best and that's done again so they've left them with the most valuable parts of the coast and the most beautiful locations. And it's unheard that in all the privatisation procedures that have been surprised here, there's been a completely wrong assessment of the value of the terrain. And that's why HSPe is right when it points out that it is necessary to implement the revolving values of hotel houses because all these estimates of the value of their properties were done at a completely different time. In times of war, and in a completely wrong way. Also, all the privatisations of hotel houses contain the most often one truly dark role of banks, which are recorded on their real estate difficulties in business because all these hotel houses take credit to survive. And they take credit because in one large part of them it came to them that they could not pay for their business and because they had exiles in them that the Croatian government had simply not financed. The common thing is that one exile per day was estimated to have about 55 kuna received from the Croatian government, namely accommodation. However, the government mostly paid only 12 kuna losses and certain hotel giants such as the hotel center Leo in Split went bankrupt and completely collapsed. No reason at all. It's outrageous that even the past government hasn't and of course this one hasn't done anything to settle these debts towards hotel homes, but simply all the behavior just as if these debts weren't there. It is impossible under these conditions therefore to support non-equivalence, normally to do business, there is no hotel house that with a small accumulation anyway because tourism is an economic activity with little accumulation. There's no hotel house that can get itself out of these problems. And now these hotel houses are burdened by the terrible tight interest rates that we remember until recently were up to 28%, and then by the basis of these tight interest rates you book on the properties of these hotels because it's really outrageous and embarrassing. And so on behalf of HSPa, I appeal to the Croatian government, this one to show more understanding for our hotel houses than the previous ones have shown. A sufficient example is I repeat the Lion but the rest of the hotels on the Adriatic have passed as well. The hotels of Makarska miraculously survived, and by teaching, they sold their real estates so that they could survive and not go bankrupt at all. It was similar with other hotels in the Adriatic, which are not the time in the state audit process but it is less well known. We also have the same problems with the completely wrong value of land from Dubrovnik to here Jadran Holinga in Crikvenica where the completely misjudged land also appeared in the game of banks that are interestaril with the loans they gave and that society also ended up in heavy losses and difficult problems. Therefore, from this whole review and privatisation process, it is obvious that the first revision that the privatisation did not give the objectives that were outlived. It's just that there's been no investment that was expected. In one large b swarm, therefore, 80 percent of the expected development programme has not been achieved at all, the banks whose role I repeat is the darkest in this post-privitation have most often acted in a way that they used crowds and enlisted in non-creation companies that were in bad shape. And for all that expensive ladies and gentlemen in Croatia no one answers. This is already the 4th privatisation review report, it is too much to mention that no one has been punished for it. If no criminal proceedings were ever conducted because they all went out of date, the only thing we can offer our voters is that based on these experiences, based on these sad novels that we read here, every year we make a new law on privatisation that, according to the privatization of this remaining one we have been privatizing, would be applied in a completely different way. And that's with greater responsibility for the investor, in a way that he can't become the owner until he's done all the development program. I also consider my duty on behalf of HSP to call on the Croatian Privatisation Fund to take the sharpest steps towards all those owners who have also failed to implement the investment plan. And by using their legal rights and every legal opportunity that comes from the privatisation law, they break up the privatisation packages. The HSpa Club is receiving this State Audit report for them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9411	Thank you very much, dear colleague. Next on behalf of the HD Club for a respected representative of the Rifle. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9412	Thank you very much and welcome again, everyone. As we have heard so far all the analyses and from the rapporteurs heard all the data I will not quantify the phenomena, but evenatually observe the phenomena already happeningly give the phenomena and conclusions of course about it. The very revision that has been made about it monitors phenomena and in itself does not define the causes or consequences of such phenomena. And neither is the part that overlaps over responsibility for the possible abuse of it. It is also necessary to avoid possible individual or personal assessments of any of the occurrences, because the phenomena do not make a Susus, and in this I believe that perhaps only peripherally should touch some of the causes and conditions of the start of the conversion and privatisation process as well as the state of the day that occurs in us. Of course, the change in ownership in every society is causing itself very difficult times the dramatic romances and consequences. e Let's remember all the forms, the process of ownership that we acquired here, and in the world of socialist ownership in the former Yugoslavia of the so-called so-called. Social ownership, and here's the third stage of trying out private otherwise in the private property world. In any case, each of these painful phases also carries painful memories, as this will surely, for a long time later and in a long time, also leave certain consequences for overall social relations, especially because we unacquainted with private property already in advance condemn every private initiative. And no god one of the greatest sins in Croatian society is successful regardless of whether in business, business, politics in anything. It seems to be a sin with us and must be condemned in advance and called all sorts of sins. Or I don't know how to move on. In this sense, this privatisation process should be reminded that the former Yugoslavia began at the end of the 1980s and then at that time, and because most of the speakers mentioned it, and mainly in the analysis of the administrative structure, these consequences are seen. He mostly started with the idea of privatizing banks. I'm just going to remind you for a little while, and why is that a painful question, that's the so-called so-called. Markovic's model. And it's painful because the banks actually later turned their committees into their servants, i.e. they became owners of all the mortgages that were at the so-called. The committees. I know this situation extremely well, and I think with full responsibility I can say that it is one of the crucial causes of that stage at that stage because such privatisation is followed by these famous management loans but which again, when we see the structure, are only ten percent. But unfair is everything that happens, that is, when not everyone is satisfied. Of course, at that stage of privatisation, not everyone can be satisfied, and in that sense, there must have been failures and we can see through analysis, but certainly not all thieves. I would also like to say for the introduction of my opinion at that time, I exclusively hold the economic logic that we also have to respect the fact that if we critically observe it all together, that the phase of conversion and privatisation in Croatia took place in the time of the war that we are condemning, of course, all together. But what happened? This privatisation seems to me specific in the world at all. She actually carried with her three processes that were again in their own way with extremely severe consequences. Privatisation is just one of the processes. One is a market process that lost the socialist market and very large respected companies, I will only remind from Zadar as an example, although with examples I do not want, was the most successful Croatian firm in the Mediterranean industry, 100% of its export capacities to Russia, to the Soviet Union. The collapse of this, of course, is a drama because it needs to change the market once and the conditions of business on it, which is almost impossible, and is similar in its structure by branches in the economy, in the Croatian economy. So on the one hand we have a very dangerous and very difficult blow, a market impact so-called. On the other hand, we have this extreme in which, in fact, once again, when we go out eventually and turn towards that market economy or the Western economy as we like to say to the economy, it should suddenly be technologically perfected, and this process is painful again because it causes both investment and all the consequences, but also layoffs of workers by itself. Because if working or capital is an intensive activity, of course one by one turns off the other a little. And the third process is so-called. ownership structure or change of ownership structure which is ultimately well-painted and spiced with the state of war in Croatia. These are four historical processes that hardly have a single country in the world gone through in such a short time, and that match at the same time. There are many of the causes of this injustice later, although sometimes it is helpful to say that what is legal is not moral, so some part of that privatisation can be said that it is not moral in itself. It's not moral, because most of the people who were in the process of production or working relationships were out of work, but they were not owners back then. It is that we all built our stakes in the company, but it was owned by the state. Thus, the later process had consequences. And now, at the end of that analysis, we see the number of companies that the audit has controlled since the beginning. We can also consider only audits, if anyone else should. What happened to monitoring, etc. I believe in the name of the HDZ Club, of course, that we are quite close to seeing, and most of the MPs around this painful process. About the analysis and the change in assets, in the company's capital we heard about these 1269, almost 70 companies that happened in those ten years before. We've seen mostly that the value of the capital has decreased. We see that much of the unemployed are left out of the process and we see that that other process of change is in fact forgetting the entry of assets may be the most painful part of it, although the most painful number of people who have lost their jobs in all of this, but also the reasons that we have already commented on and often happened to be unconsciously or perhaps unconsciously but unconsciously forgetting to enter a part of the property. That this property was changed also later in its structure and that it was also the subject of public polemics, but unfortunately not public responsibilities or at least the personal responsibilities of those involved in the process. In the next phase when the next companies are monitored in the last year which are also the subject of the report, we also see a similar trend. The amount of the employees' capital has already been heard several times, there is no need to point out. But interestingly, tendencies and phenomena that characterized the previous period, or time something similar follows this trend further. So it's changing or reducing capital again, reducing the number of employees. Now we have a new phenomenon that the structure changes, of course, because of the time of implementation of the process, that the structure is changing and that larger companies, medium and large, are shrinking and the number of small companies is increasing and the number of large companies is falling. Of course, it's almost analogous that it happens to employees, same with the result obviously from that process. In this sense, in this time, it can also be said that one of the fundamental goals that was to be achieved is to retain the number of employees, but also as we all wanted, which is development. Of course we were aware that at a given moment, because a large number of branches of activity had been working intensively and we must recognise that as a consequence of the socialist economy and that in this structure we expected similar but not such changes to happen. Therefore, in the event of such changes, of course we wanted to achieve that goal of development. Unfortunately, however, a large part of these development stories have not been achieved, and a very small number of companies unfortunately have not achieved a fundamental goal for which they thought to move on to the privatisation. The transformation of the number and structure of the stock companies or companies d.o.o. is also observed. which is also partly read that there is also a process that would be desirable if something were different or more favourable. Within that structure, we also see that a large number of companies that are newly registered, I'll say it in my mind, so I'm asking for correction so that it wouldn't be true, right, 150 and some new-registered companies that don't have any employees. 150 and something to the firm probably aren't even their directors. And that says something about another phenomenon within this structure and such capital if we can say relations within the Croatian economy. So these are, not going into why they form often we know the reasons why they are forming, as they are now at this point as we talk probably someone forms d.o.o. with the aim of part of capital extraction and closure of the cycles of all those who are part of the privatisation process, and then repay the debt. There are very perfidious methods, not only bank loans but also other ways of extracting money and returning back through all those types of services etc. So we don't go deep into it with the analysis. Of course, I'm saying now and there's another process that's also worth that analysis. Through the number of companies and the number of employees and the size of capital. We also see that companies or numbers up to 100 employees are increasing which can be interpreted differently, whether success or something else through this system, but apparently it says that there is also an increase in the number of companies in the system of value of capital and employee values during the observed period. Because we're finding a phenomenon that happened and we're trying to interpret it with a goal that eventually, in future time, we're retrieving some conclusions from it. We've also heard the analysis, but we've heard possible causes about it, and now here's a little dyspression. They say when a numberer theory that can be interpreted in socialist social relations sometimes is a small recession, that when a broiler gets out on the loose, and let him take care of food and the rest himself, he prefers to go back to where he has a minimum and where he can survive. That one could be an interpretation. Therefore, a large part of the companies, for these or those reasons or for the percentage of ownership in the structure, again want to return to the state. That's what this previous government felt, that's what she felt, unfortunately, that's what this one's gonna feel. If there's any problem, here's to you, so you're thinking. And if it's decision-making autonomy, if you have nothing to do with us, we want to decide. Okay, it's a transition from one ownership relationship to another and of course it takes a period in which we'll all get used to such relationships. Therefore, within this change and fluctuation within the Fund, there is this process that the Fund is changing ownership, i.e. its portfolio and here, recently say the phenomenon is to be re-boosted. Secondly, we must also respect the fact that the shares shared from the Fund's portfolio after the war were shared mainly by warriors, returnees and others, also experienced their sad fate because a large part of these people out of ignorance first, and then the status in which they found themselves, in fact, all the shares disappeared, lost, probably well cashed. But it's a painful process that we've been through and that's also behind us. So the Fund becomes the owner again, so that part of the capital. But here, to point out once again, and I point out, on behalf of the HDZ Club, we point out this issue of ownership that remains unrecorded, especially of the property that remains in the hotel houses on the coast. And finally, here I see the light, and it should draw the conclusion to the end, that the structure of ownership and management we heard and the causal connection between that and the process that needs to be brought to an end, the question is what with it. We believe that this analysis is a process of conversion and privatisation cannot be restored. He's the way he is, let's try to find solutions to the further process, he's sick. We find that it has not achieved its basic objective of faster development, preserving the number of employees and technological levels of development, but this means that it needs to be stopped. It should continue, however, what we have learned so far if we have learned to correct it and it seems to me in all of this that it may be the most monitoring or monitoring form that might have had more impact on all of this together, so give certain results and the framework of it. However, the fact is that private property is more successful than social property. Here, and China recently from the Socialist Constitution decided to go into private, so it wouldn't be good if we didn't even talk, let alone try the process again, the reverse process rather than simply us to continue this process, and that process should be brought to an end. But also so that all potential investors do not see in us the enemy, let them also see in Croatia the country in which it can be invested, can own it without risk, but without cheating on the Croatian state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9413	Thank you very much, colleague. No more registered representatives on behalf of the clubs. We're going to an individual debate, 10-minute session. For a 10-minute debate, you might be interested, 18 MPs checked in. This was a suggesting piece of information. Let's take it in a row. The first to apply for a hearing was a representative of the Mato Church. Here you go, my colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9414	Madam Vice President, Madam Chief State Auditor. The state office is undoubtedly making a great deal of effort in these revisions of conversion and privatisation. Each company should be approached with special attention and each of them in the audit is a special case. The audit results show that this effort is not in vain. Of course, it would be far more effective if the revision and the privatisation problems were dealt with when more could be done than can be done today. So that was going to be 90 and some years, instead of 2000 and some now. However, of course, we cannot change that fact. What clearly stems from all the audits so far, and also from this last one, and what strengthens us in the evaluation, is this. Simply, conversion and privatisation as a whole of the process in which there were, of course, different examples, good and less good and extremely bad, but as a whole of the process, conversion and privatisation in Croatia failed, and that is to be said here and it was not fair enough. In addition, it has been a significant influence of politics, politicians, states, administrations, red tape on all these processes, and therefore, of course, related to this area of significant violations, including criminal offences. The transformation can be assessed according to economic criteria, social, political and, of course, by various others. If we take economic criteria, then the fact that the conversion unfortunately did not receive what it said in the first article of the Privatisation Act did not contribute to the achievement of development programmes and development did not contribute to employment and did not contribute to efficiency. In social terms, it has not only destroyed to a large extent the middle layer, but it has largely contributed to and raised unemployment more than was objectively necessary in view of all the circumstances in which this conversion and privatisation took place. And in a political sense, the conversion cannot be assessed positively. Not only was it achieved during the era of war, so that it was a political simple fact with all the unfavorable repercussions, but such as conversion and privatisation was not a good basis for more rapid democratic development, parliamentaryism and everything else. So both economic and social and political implications of conversion and privatisation were mostly not good. Clearly, she did not get what we wanted and what we all needed together. Of course, there are already many facts about that mentioned here. Let me stress some more, though. Undoubtedly, here is a fact which has a particular weight is that out of the total of 269 companies that passed the audit here, in these companies after they were privatised, 62% of the employees lost their jobs. Of course, this did not only contribute to privatisation, because these companies were generally doing business at that time in very difficult conditions, each of them in terms of market, war and all, but it is certainly a failure of privatisation, failed new management, the owner, that they also contributed to 62% of the people found in privatised companies, after they were privatised losing jobs. That fact is so difficult and devastating that it deserves to be remembered constantly and done in a certain way. Secondly, it is clearly shown here that the reduced value of capital is. Therefore, privatisation that should have largely been the recapitalisation process because the companies that went into privatisation were not effective enough. Instead of ending up with more valuable companies, with investments in these companies, etc., it led to the fact that these companies had actually lost the value of the capital they had in them. Next, third. The significant value of assets in privatised enterprises is not included in privatisation. This is about 282 million marks as you have seen, which are shown in this report. So it's property that's in some way in the function of something, but it's just left out to be privatized, and in this way you can say that both failure and failure of the fact about privatisation. Of course, what's particularly difficult, what's already been said here, is that the key points in privatisation were development programs. Even the law conditioned that the development programme and its implementation are a key fact that the buyer may also be the one who became the owner of the company, in his own right brought into question, etc. In this regard, however, the law prescribed some very important provisions, none of which has ever changed. and the fact is that development programs are largely, here various data were used, but almost 80% and more were not executed. and nothing to anyone. And of course that led to the fact that privatised companies had not progressed. As shown above almost one-third of the companies privatised have opened up bankruptcy afterwards. It could have been from the current business, but it meant that essentially the privatisation in the company failed. And in the end, there is only this latest report, in 250 companies there have been 175 crimes and violations. Almost 80% of privatised privatisations were present. Thus, in 80% of the jobs done in privatisation, there were irregularities in the privatisations and conversions, not only at the border, but many were also crimes. In particular, in this case, there have been violations of 91 and criminal acts of 84. So 175 of the 250 companies surveyed were in criminal parts and violations in the process of conversion and privatisation. All this is clearly said and I would like to point out in the end that the privatisation in most cases did not achieve the objectives that the law intended to achieve. This is also the last, last item concluded in the report of the State Audit Office. These are certainly objectives, economic growth, a product of unemployment, technological modernisation, etc. However, the Office for Audit, therefore, could not say anything, but most of the above objectives were not achieved. You can see here that it's actually a large majority and over 80% of the cases. But, of course, the question is, what does that mean? Still, just to find out, it means statistically to point out a fact. Yet it is actually too passive, when we say only, in most cases the goals are not achieved. Of course, the State Audit Office is difficult and can do more, but the Parliament and the Government would probably have to. Simply, the fact that privatisation has failed now leads to saying or time has passed and nothing can or can be done. I think we should insist in the Parliament on doubt. First, to reiterate a call from parliament to the judiciary for greater urgency and greater determination in the procedures concerning conversion and privatisation. That's the first thing we can and must do. Because we can't accept the fact any of the past, there's all kinds of sayings, caravans, a statement of donkeys, etc. We can't accept that fact. Therefore, the first is that the judiciary can still do more. and the second is that the Government can also do more with a certain tax policy and must do more than the irregularities made in conversion and privatisation. And let me quite conclude, that it would be good to find out, that often privatization was a success, and also a conversion where employees participated in it. It's undetected. And that means actually a model assessment, that it's worth saying and grading the privatisation model. He obviously wasn't good at dating.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9415	A fellow representative of the time.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9416	It's okay to change that, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9417	Thank you very much. The next one was registered by a representative of Slaven Letica. He's not in the hall, he's losing his word. Then a colleague of Ruža Lelic. He's also not in the hall, he's losing his word. Joseph Leco. Here you go, my colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9418	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Parliament, colleagues and fellow MPs. This is the sixth State Audit report and it's almost a question, why discuss it? What are these conclusions that have been reached by this House? Is there any? Of course, we have to discuss it and we have to give a grade, and the Parliament can't make peace with the parole who's been bailing, moaning. The Parliament can't concreteize such a situation. By my court privatisation in Croatian way could be said to have genetically determined the development path of the Croatian economy and the standard of Croatian citizens in the last 14 years. And how and when did it start? It began during the Homeland War, during the defense of the homeland. And how did it start? It began in a way that banks, state-owned social banks, gave non-critical loans without the control of the banking risk to authorised persons, and those persons did not guarantee their return to nothing. And then the state decided to resuscitate banks with 50 billion kuna on the burden of Croatian citizens, so that our Croatian banks would sell them for 5 billion kuna. In my court then reviewing, then privatisation in the Croatian way comes in a phase when there is no return. When there's no going back. There's no change or model, because now the owners of banks determine the objectives of these banks. But colleagues and colleagues why are we really discussing the State Audit report, which so systematically shows what was happening and what was the cause and what was the objective of privatisation? One goal was to declare, increase production, increase capital, employment, create new jobs, strengthen the competitiveness of Croatia's economy, create a compatible system with the countries of European democracy, the countries of the European Union. Please, have we achieved those goals? Every State Audit report says we didn't and says why we didn't. He says it wasn't a model, that it wasn't a respected model, that privatisation was illegal and that there were no sanctions. And now we in the House say who is the pit, the pit. Well, gentlemen, is it allowed for the Parliament to question this situation? Well, it's not allowed. What's next? Furthermore, I think it would be very bad to say model not good, privatisation is not good, we will stop the process. The conflict of state and private surely ends in favor of private ones. This would be the new deception of Croatian workers, the new deception of Croatian workers. That's why I advocate a very reviewed continuation of the privatisation process is very controlled. Is there anything else we can do that makes it an illegal way to acquire a capital that was social, which was all of us in individual hands at least in a way to devolve or to get the state to say so to determine the measure. If we cannot presently introduce a tax on disproportionately acquired real estate of his income objectively reviewed, gentlemen we can enter records, we can introduce a property card of 1. Nine. In 2004, everyone is free to report what they have on the property. How much is his property, how much is his income? And then next year we can control whether that ratio was with his income. We can arrange the land books and bring them in line with the cathedral. We can arrange a depositary organization or record all stockholders or that it is possible to control them. We had a conversion that there was a stockholder, that there was a stockholder without paying for anything. We had a conversion that he had, got a loan on so-called. Worthless shares, then returned them to the bank. And then the state rescheduled the bank. One more if nothing works for the future should be determined. You should at least record all those who gave their signature, call in the professional that the privatisation development program was realistic, economically justified, economically designed, to see who certified our development. All of this must be seen by my court by this Parliament because it is indeed the representative body of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia and has no right to say to the citizens what it was, who it was, who it was, who it was, it was, and it has nothing to do with anyone. He doesn't have the right to do that. We can at least, at least for future generations, set up all records and have before us a review of public documents and public books and public records. This will certainly help us to believe foreign capital in the legal and regulated state of the Republic of Croatia. And finally, no longer, no, I'm not saying, the current review data from a relatively small number of revised or reviewed legal entities, companies could really say that it is a devastating way of privatising for jobs and for workers in the Republic of Croatia. Well, that's really a terrible loss, 329 thousand jobs. Well, that's really scary. And we say there's nothing we can do. So what will 329 thousand unemployed Croatian workers tell us? We can introduce a tax no matter what they call it, criminal, just, but we must introduce the tax in those who have wrongly, in an inappropriate way, economically, legally, morally, acquired an unwarranted fortune. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9419	Thank you very much, colleague. The next one is MP Zvonimir Mršić. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9420	Dear Vice President, the Honorable State Auditor. I am the new representative here in the Croatian Parliament, this is my first report on audit and conversion and I must admit that I am disgusted. I couldn't believe that a process that has been going on in the past 10, 11 years, or for the past 7 years could have such disastrous and negative consequences on Croatia. I'll repeat some data, I think we should repeat them, maybe I should build a board where it would show up with maybe big noses to see what the indicators were at the beginning, what the indicators are today. So, from the audited companies, the capital has been reduced by 16%, 17% or almost 4 billion marks. But not only that, but those who have vagorized the planet's assessment of the value of the company in Omak predicted 883 million marks of the value of the companies that have not entered the assessment, 2 million 303 thousand 84 square meters of land, 81 thousand square meters of building facilities of the area. The result, therefore, is that in these 1200 and some of the audited companies, 329 thousand 426 workers were out of their jobs. So 329 thousand 426 workers lost their jobs. If these jobs were preserved today, we wouldn't have a problem with unemployment in Croatia. Today, no one in Croatia would be unemployed and certainly if the privatisation and development objectives of these companies were achieved today would have to be imported into a large, large number of jobs. It's a general assessment. Of these 240 companies, of course, 245 of these 1269 ended up in bankruptcy as a result of the conversion. Of these companies that we are looking at today, 282 million marks have not equally entered the assessment and conversion of a million and a half square meters of land and a further 77,000 square meters of building, building land. As a result of the conversion of these 250 companies, 60,000 workers have lost their jobs. Sixty thousand employees of those who have had a certain number of years of internships have lost their jobs, and most likely a large majority of them will never get a chance to work again. That's general. Unfortunately, one of the companies audited this revision is the Source of Koprivnica. It was the company that was the most powerful company, the 90's commercial company, employed over 1200 workers, had huge business spaces in the best, in the best places in Koprivnica, had large building surfaces, land of building surfaces. Today it's a bankruptcy company. 13 workers of those 1200 ended up at the Employment Office, unfortunately the vast majority of these workers I know, and the vast majority of these people are talking to me, and most of these people are talking to me with the question of what it is, where these business spaces they've been creating for years, and it's mostly about salesmen and salesmen with 20, 30 years of work experience that almost doesn't seem to be working anywhere anymore because those who open new stores are looking for a wave of young labour, looking for young salesmen, salesmen with new skills, with new skills. What's a tragedy is that no one, no one, is even responsible for the disappearance of 1200 jobs in Koprivnica. There is not even in the audit that the procedure has been initiated even though the procedure has been initiated and suspended. The state's attorney's office, although it was written extensively about it, failed to find enough arguments to file criminal charges and all went nicely full bags from Koprivnica, and in Koprivnica there were 1200 people and 1200 fates and 1200 families without their jobs and without their bread. These shops were sold but from the sale of these shops, neither the company nor the workers had any benefit because at the beginning of the conversion 66% of the property was sold, and 33% of the ownership, 34% of the ownership was divided into pension funds and transferred to the Privatisation Fund. Today, when it was opened, the ratio at the time of the bankruptcy was 80% of the ownership ended up in the Privatisation Fund, but therefore 80% of the shares but not the kuna of ownership. Not a square meter of land, not a single employee. And no one's responsible for that. No one at the Croatian Privatisation Fund is responsible in either the Ministry of Finance or the Tax Administration or the Financial Police or the State's Attorney's Office or in the judiciary. Therefore, in this Croatia, 66 million kunas could have been destroyed legally, all of this could have been resold legally, and another 62 million kuna could have been derived from the company because such a loss has been achieved within 4 years and no one is responsible for it. That was possible after Croatian conversion. Croatian conversion has the features of crime and organised crime because if it could be done without anyone answering then it is almost a perfect crime, and here it is about 1200 people I know almost personally and about 390 thousand people who are out of a job that most of you probably know. We're here today to find that it's done. The state audit on 40 and some pages found a whole series of shortcomings in the process. From 1995 to 1999, such intensive shares were traded in the company that those shares were at least to triple the nominal value because of such demand. If the price is formed on the basis of supply and demand, they should have made a terrible jump in the price. In this process, a whole series of shortcomings were seen to be reacted to by the institutions that I spoke of but also by the Securities Commission, but also by the central state agency. But probably someone else. No one has responded, and no one feels called today when the state's audit has established and assisted us. The question arises whether we will really say as the Croatian Parliament ok, which was from 1990 to 2000 or until 2004 however you wish. No one's gonna be to blame for that. In any way we won't, we can't sanction it, but those 390,000 jobs are gone, that social value, the national value is gone, and what's still the worst is not secure development. It's not just about missing jobs. It is that these companies should have provided development and should have provided for and charged the state budget. We talked in the first part of the day about the 2002 budget revision. Where's the flaw? No one has the right to waste taxpayers' money irrationally or against the law, but I'm asking you how much tax money went missing by converting because they're not, because these people don't work anymore, because they don't pay any taxes. How much local self-government has remained damaged for taxes that have failed to charge from bankrupt companies, and no one can answer for that. It is simply inadmissible and this Parliament must find a way to sanction those who have taken advantage of the conversion. And to conclude, I wonder how many cars are purchased this year by the money of these poor, poor workers who have lost their jobs.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9421	Thank you very much, colleague. We have a replica. Florian Boras, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9422	So I'm going to replicate my colleague Mric to a part of the speech where he mentioned several times that the conversion was a crime. If that's really how we characterize it and accept it, then it's a crime to cover up a crime because the government in the past four years, so the former government has practically done nothing to sanction these crimes. We also saw from the State Auditor's report that very much of the crimes committed in the conversion went into obsolescence. I'd like to know and see how many of these crimes went out of date over the last four years? So I will repeat the crime is and conceal the crime committed by the last government in a term of four years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9423	Thank you, dear colleague Boras. We have a response to the replica. Mršić's representative, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9424	If it's a crime to cover up a crime for four years then it's twice the crime to cover up a crime for 10 years is it? Then at least it's twice the crime to cover up a crime for 10 years, or you simply claim that the HDZ government believes that this is not, simply that there is no malfunction here and that HDZ thinks that the conversion was quite right. If you claim that the conversion from 1990 to 2000 was quite fine, then the Government did not sanction it in 2000 to 2004, but the government initiated a revision of the conversion, and the government is not the one who can sanction it, it must be the judiciary because we are in favour of it, then I fully agree with you. However, it was not a matter of 3 January 2000 and ended on 23 November 2003. No work here, no HDZ or SDPs left without a job. Other Croatian citizens are jobless regardless of age, gender, faith or political commitment. And it's just as hard for everyone.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9425	Thank you very much. We have a breach of our Rules of Procedure and a replica of our colleague Boras. Both? Make up your mind.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9426	... Sure. [[The speaker was subsequently turned on]] Namely, Mršić did not speak at all in response Article 209, in response to the replica on the subject which he himself replicated. [[/Intruder: Excuse the article on which?]] I said if crimes were committed in the conversion and the cover-up of these crimes is a crime. Therefore, I did not speak generally of conversion but it is evident that a large number of criminal acts have been committed in the transformation that you have observed, has not been sanctioned by courts, either by any possible and new institutions that have passed through the legislative body could have been introduced. So it's a crime to cover up a crime. I said it.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9427	Thank you very much. I see you've agreed to your views. Let's move forward with the debate next for representative Jura Bitunjac, please choose a fellow representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9428	Madam Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Well, I'd like to reiterate what I said earlier, reporting for correction of the incorrect quote, conversion and privatisation is not a process that has stopped that is a process that has been going on since 1992. When it comes to only conversion, I can say that it is a famous Croatian model and probably that Croatia did not then have the opportunity to base the experiences of some former countries of a socialist lager or how you want to get who would in some way be tried and tried in practice to apply it and that Croatia would in some way also the Croatian economy and Croatian citizens have gone as well as possible in a better way when it comes to the conversion itself and the privatisation itself and in terms of keeping their jobs, and in terms of preserving the efficiency of the economy itself. I personally believe that conversion as a conversion in itself can be assessed even positively. Not going in and not being abstracted by those negative aspects that have happened and that may still happen. I think the biggest problem came from privatization. The defacto was about whether it was the '90s or whether it was the last three. 4 years where quality companies were bought, based on the law on conversion and privatisation, one company was bought under mortgage and then went in some way into one chain of privatisation, and all of them were aware that in such a one process there had to be errors that there was also malfeasance, and that it was only those actions when it came to the rest of the employees who worked in such companies or in such companies. The attempts of rehabilitation and privatisation can be said that it was also poor in the 1990s but I must say when it comes to privatisation itself that the attempt to privatise in the last four years is based on reprogrammed bankruptcy and such an approach when it comes to economic solving opportunities in Croatia that it has also failed and experienced fiasco. The bankruptcy should be as a last resort, but these famous reprogrammed bankruptcys have not received any results that should have been obtained and we defacto again so that we can conclude that both in these observed trading companies and in some companies, I am talking about phenomena over the past few years that we have come into a situation that people remain unsavoured and that through the bankruptcy process the value of the capital of companies. And that they're being bought as we've been given these four years in political likeness. That's what I'm gonna say about the previous government. Let me just say a few words when it comes to the County of Split County, at least in the last 3.4 years, in the bankruptcy process, or in the bankruptcy proceedings, the entire economy of Dalmatia was finished and I can say the most significant subjects about the coastal part of our county, Dioko, Dalmatia a long war and so on. And it's known to everyone, the public that these processes have ended people have lost their jobs, it doesn't work. What counterpart Tadic said with him, I absolutely agree that the backbone of the economy that was meant to be in Dalmatia was this tourist complex that by receiving refugees and then by taking expensive loans to survive came into one position that owners became mostly banks by means of a pretense, and later there was the sale of these tourist corners complexes and so on. However, I believe that this is one area of economy, one circle of economy that has its own chance and that in some ways we come to those positions where we were once with the possibility of further improvement in terms of tourism business. The number of employees through bankruptcy when it comes to Dalmatian Zagora and in general when it comes to Dalmatia in companies that have been bankrupt, not to be halved, but we can say that only 20% of those who have broken up have their jobs today in companies that have passed these processes, which have come out of them. But we must be aware in some way and objective circumstances I remember in the 95th storm I was then mayor of Sinja and a member of the headship. Better words from a member in charge of finance asked me, so Jure, if we're going to let the Dalmatian girl play again, it's about the siren that all our factories had. So I said it was over, that it was the time behind us, and the advertising factory went off every morning at 6:00 p.m., then at 2:00 p.m. and 10:00 a.m. when they were shifts. A Dalmatian woman who was in some way directed towards an east market, defacto did not have a great chance of competing in the open world market. Therefore, I would like to illustrate this to say that many of the societies we are considering today were in a similar position and that the defect in one market and open competition had little chance of survival. When it comes to the very audit that is ahead of us here, I can only conclude and accept the facts that the state auditor wrote here and absolutely agree in that part with Mršić, who highlighted the problems of the workers and that this is the biggest problem of us who are in the Croatian National Assembly and Kole Tadic said that we should in some way turn the future. And I expect and hope that after the new start of the study of forces in the Croatian National Assembly, we new ones who have come will find the previous opposition and current positions, the current opposition in the Croatian Parliament, that we will make a turn towards the future. And we're not going to keep in the loop that the current government is predicating everything that's negative in the former government and we're not going to talk about them in the third person. These are all Croatian governments and in this direction I hope that in the Croatian National Assembly we will turn to the future and the problem of employment thank God for new technologies for new knowledge. And in this direction as a parliamentary representative I will support everything I will support all those ideas that come from any side which will mean a plant for the Croatian people and the Croatian people and therefore for the Croatian state and its citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9429	I would like to thank the esteemed representative of Bitunjec. Next up for debate, distinguished representative Anton Perusko.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9430	Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, gentlemen of the State Audit, has given us time to say enough. Given the fact that I am also the new representative in this House, I am obliged to deliver the opinion of most citizens from my environment on this most painful issue of Croatian society since the Homeland War. In front of us is a comprehensive and qualitative report by the State of Audit, on the implementation of conversion and privatisation, and I agree with the assessment of all and most colleagues that the State Office of the State Audit really deserves all our praises. I don't have any objections, but every confession to all the employees in the State Audit Office. It is also good that in the Republic of Croatia, we have the State Audit Office as an independent and independent professional body organised apart from the Executive Authority and responsible exclusively to the Croatian Assembly, in accordance with the experiences and practices of other countries. It is also good for me that during the government, i.e. during the Government of Ivica Racan, the adoption of the Law on the Review of Conversion and Privatisation, which extended the jurisdiction of the State Audit Office to the tasks of reviewing all the processes of the conversion and privatisation of former social and state capital. It is as stated in the report on the revision of 2911 legal entities where conversion and privatisation took place over the past ten years. This is really a difficult and painful issue for the citizens of our country. It is the greatest injustice and damage that has been done to our country's citizens in the process of conversion and privatisation. Yes, colleagues and colleagues, the process of conversion and privatisation that was done at the time of the Homeland War has caused our country, our citizens great damage and this great majority of our country's citizens in a material sense. The process of conversion and privatisation according to our really specific Croatian model has disproved the vast majority of our citizens. To do great material damage to inexplicable proportions, but unfair conversion has brought pain into many of the souls of our citizens who have created wealth for decades, and then some similar, politically-like tycoons who have dragged their hands into our pockets, unfortunately by law, have taken property according to the laws. The vast majority of citizens were dissuaded and humiliated, taken away from them the most difficult and the worst human dignity, turned the vast majority of citizens into their servants. And it's really the hardest thing for a man, of course, when you take away his human dignity, when you make him addicted to him and his family about the one who took away his own, and to him the honest citizen of this country imposes his own conditions, his own philosophy of life. That colleagues and colleagues for man, for every individual there is no greater evil and greater suffering to be imposed upon him when human dignity is taken away from him. In the process of converting and privatizing that these particular injustices have been imposed. I cannot take away the impression that most of the citizens of this country have that these injustices are the expression of the political will of those who passed the laws. They have become rich many have become rich in the process of conversion and privatisation by law, and at times when a good part of our citizens have lost their lives by defending the Republic of Croatia, and they have seized wealth. With all the praises of the State Audit Office for the quality of the task, I am afraid that, unfortunately, the state audit with a lot of pain, a lot of work, a lot of time has created a product that those who should be in charge and invited to buy, which is primarily the law enforcement, the state's attorney and the special judiciary do not use for what reasons, and perhaps because the Croatian legal system does not allow the functioning of the authorities in charge to the extent that every objective citizen of this country expects it. The State Audit really presents its reports on the revision of conversion and privatisation to this Assembly. So far, as stated in the report by the Office of State Audit, it is covered by the revision of 1269 social enterprises and that I do not repeat the data already mentioned, data are indeed alarming when it comes to the number of employees. Also in the report that I am not repeating again the period for which the review report on these companies has been given recently 250, the same data loss of the value of the capital reduced, the reduced number of total employees, the open bankruptcy procedure, about the failure of development programmes. Therefore, all results that are truly defeative, citing identified irregularities in conversion, privatisation irregularities and business irregularities. And not to be too long, I'm asking one key question that my colleague, Leko, and many speakers before me, have asked. Can we really deal with the situation in which we are located, can we, as a Croatian Parliament, tell who has and who doesn't have what I can do? No, we can't keep up with that fact. And it's crucial to me, and I'm concluding my debate because I don't belong to those who think necessarily the red light has to go on and on and on and on and on and on and on to be wronged to the extent that it's possible for I.D. It is known that an attempt by the SDP initiative to at least introduce a property tax that has been acquired in one illegal way and the proposal has not passed. So I'm not in the mood to raise our hands on this key problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9431	I would like to thank the honourable representative of Peru. It is time for the distinguished representative Ljubica Lalić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9432	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Madam State Auditor, colleagues and fellow MPs. We have before us the sixth report of the State Audit Office on the audits carried out on the conversion and privatisation of former social enterprises. And this report confirms what we concluded during the debate in the first report. Privatisation didn't happen by accident. It was in the service of the realization of the goals of the philosophy of 200 wealthy families, and the price paid by the Croatian people for the realization of these goals is: in 1269 by reviewing the companies covered, and to remind us there were about 3 thousand, of 536 thousand 726 unemployed, 329 thousand 426 workers. 245 companies ended up in bankruptcy after privatisation, and the core capital has been reduced by nearly 4 billion marks since conversion and privatisation.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9433	I'm sorry, your microphone's not working. It won't be recorded to change.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9434	I don't know, I don't need to say it again, because this one doesn't work either. These aren't final numbers, but also based on them and the following...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9435	Try it now.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9436	I don't know if it works. Now, please get your time back to square one, and I'll do it again for the phonogram. So here is the sixth report of the State Audit Office, and the revisions of the transformation and privatisation of former social enterprises. And this report confirms what we concluded during the debate in the first report. Privatisation did not happen by accident, it was in the service of the realization of the goals of philosophy of 200 wealthy families, and the price paid by the Croatian people for the realization of these goals is a thousand 269 audits of the companies covered, and to remind us that about 3,000 companies of 536 thousand 726 employees were privatised, with no job left 329 thousand 426 workers. After privatisation, 245 companies ended up in bankruptcy, and the core capital from conversion to privatisation was reduced by nearly 4 billion marks. These are not final figures, but based on them and the accompanying reports, we can conclude that privatisation was made in accordance with the Law, and severe adverse consequences have occurred by abuse of legal disadvantages. Instead of keeping an eye on the implementation of the Law and proposing amendments to the Law in order to prevent the adverse consequences that were already visible, the State closed its eyes before the shortages, and the Government of the Republic of Croatia during the mid-90s characterizes complete care for state property and allowing its relocation into individual pockets. That it thus confirms the fact that privatisation occurred through the transfer, or by the sale of shares on payment, that... it has not been paid, and the acquirers have nevertheless managed or better said, ruled and made available to the capital companies and sucked capital, booked mortgages on the property of those companies to ensure the payment of loans granted to certain other companies owned by the shareholders of the shares or shares. [[You don't understand.]] In spite of the non-payment and non-payment of shares, the state government did not terminate the contracts but allowed the company to be further exhausted, and when it remembered to terminate the contract after a few years, it returned the amount paid by the acquirer immediately after the conclusion of the share acquisition contract. It was their reward for millions of wealth during the management of the seemingly acquired capital society. That's how it shows an example of the revision of the merchant organisation "ship" in my county. The citizens of my county must know that the contract with Lipovac was concluded in 1994 only on 3 March 1997. In doing so, they should not be reminded that the transfer of shares contract was completed 3 years earlier, i.e. in 1994. So, all this time, Mr. Miroslav Lipovac not only managed Tobe, the largest trading organization in the county with nearly a thousand employees. He held the property so he sold in business premises, the purchase did not take place on the jury's Toba account but rather paid the debts of his other company called Frigo univers. Booked mortgages on Tob's real estate to secure loans granted to his company Frigo univers in the amount of as much as 106 million kuna. He traded more valuable Tob property for a less valuable Frigo universal property by principle of equal value, transferred Tob's property into his personal property and even moreover, incredibly but truthfully, that property registered by the resolution of the competent judge in the land books. And after all that, so in 1997, the state government broke up the contract and imagine, it paid Miroslav Lipovac 2 million 339 thousand 86 kuna to return money paid on behalf of the share payment. And not only do he get paid back the amount but he gets paid as much as 150 thousand kunas more than the amount paid to the state he certainly never paid back. It is a picture of the relationship of the then state government to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia who are taxpayers and who pay from their pockets the bills of errors and failures of state authorities. The Toba is gone, a bankruptcy procedure opened in late July 98. During the 98th year, criminal charges were filed against responsible persons at the County State's Attorney's Office in Požega, and the County Court is still under investigation today. Former Toba workers and their families, county citizens, cannot be satisfied with the fact that an investigation is under way. I have said more than once in my previous term in this Chamber, every mistake the people will forgive us, but they will not forgive us if we do not bring to justice the ones who robbed the property that was partly created and created by working denial. We failed, and the people did not forgive us. In front of the new government, the commitment is greater because it is about correcting your own mistakes and your own failures. Whether among the 50 names published by the richest Croats there are those who have become rich in the way of the previously mentioned Lipovac or, for example, Ivan Radosevic, Mirko Matozan and their company Dragun. We have seen in the review report of the Ship of Wine from Slavonski brod and by assembling mosaic cubes we will easily conclude that in the privatisation process of Krma from Vinkovac, the purchase of shares for Mirko Matozan and Ivan Radosevic did not accidentally perform a society with limited responsibility of Dragun. Radosevic has been called an emissary, and the great Croat has reached for foreign citizenship leaving behind the destroyed Krma, Dukat from Brenovac, Zagreb, etc. In the same way as in the case of Toba, Krma, Dukat, Tanga, etc., the Slavonian and Croatian economies collapsed, without being unknown to the regional authorities at the time also proving the conclusion of the County Assembly, County of Brod-Posavia since 27.6.1996. At its meeting, the Assembly considered the state of the economy in the county and found that the economy is in an extremely difficult situation, the production stagnates, the financial results of almost all activities are unfavourable, the potential and the resources for investments are missing, the number of unemployed is growing, and the cause and reason of such a decline has been established privatisation. For such a conclusion, the arguments were found in the fact that the vast majority of the privatisation was doing very well, as evidenced by the audit reports ahead. The County Assembly then requested a report from the Croatian Privatisation Fund about the privatisations carried out, but by lettering the manual number, they can even quote it, from the Croatian Privatisation Fund, responsible for not being concerned about what happens to privatisation because of the state property of the state. As the state's watch has already been made clear to us at that time, and today's review confirms it. The Assembly then concluded, quote: "It is indisputable to protect the property of the Croatian State in its own area and to control the inflow of funds into the state budget that comes from the sale of shares and the share of capital companies based in the County of Brod-Posavina. The county requires the annulment of immoral and illegal privatisation," the quote concluded. This and 5 similar conclusions from the county were delivered to all the country's competent authorities, including the country's president, Prime Minister and President-in-Office. The State's silence followed, and today we can only conclude the justification and foundation of the conclusions of the Assembly of the County of the Ship-Posavina. If time could be restored in 1996, the economic picture of the county would look quite different, and the county would not be at the last place at the height of the standards of its citizens, but time could not return, but there is a way to return from the private assets of former shareholders where political will and courage should be moved. The previous government didn't have enough courage to correct other people's failures, so that's why this courage is expected from this authority that corrects its own failures and mistakes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9437	I would like to thank the esteemed representative Lalic. A distinguished representative, Zdenka Babić-Petricevic, appeared in the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9438	Is he right twice? I've picked up the replica twice. Mr. Vice President, my esteemed colleague said, with the quote I'm starting "the goal of conversion and privatisation was the philosophy of 200 wealthy families" which is not true. Ma'am, my colleague. Your party when it was in the coalition for four years, or was in power of your pre-election promise was a revision of conversion and privatisation. Why didn't you do it? Because among 200 families, they would find names from the former government, and perhaps most alleged from the HSS, that's what I heard. However, at the initiative of the Croatian Democratic Community in the previous assembly of parliament, we have reached a conclusion, where 200 families will be published. And you have not learned it until this day, or have done it. You're saying that we're going to do it in this next period, to correct the mistakes. However, collective responsibilities do not exist, every criminal has a name and name, including these cases that you have brought. And be sure, the place, among 200 families, is at least HDZ's, state those names at last. and don't tell lies all the time in this Croatian Assembly, because collective responsibilities regarding crime are gone. Why don't you in your party, if something happens, why don't we call HSS or individuals? These are two replicas twice. And I'd still have something to say. Because you didn't say anything exactly.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9439	First of all, for the violation of the Rules of Procedure, the distinguished representative Lalic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9440	... [[speaks not included, can't be heard]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9441	This was a replica. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Lalic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9442	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My dear colleague. The philosophy of 200 wealthy families is not unknown in Croatia, and every adult citizen knows that. As for the revision of conversion and privatisation. My authority, which you say is my authority, has begun to revise conversion and privatisation, and precisely because of what was then launched, here we are now discussing and finding solutions. It is perfectly clear to me as a lawyer that privatisation was made in the most possible criminal way in 93, that it would no longer be subject to criminal responsibility because of old age. And that is why I purposely returned to my presentation at the time when a county assembly was the only one in Croatia to have the courage to say that illegal and immoral privatisation was taking place, when the assembly and the proposal, which was politically identical at the time, asked the government to cancel that privatisation, but that county assembly was not being heard by the dadadaca, they were told what you were worried about, and my 22 thousand unemployed workers in the County of Brod-Posavia paid for it.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9443	I thank the distinguished representative Ljubica Lalić. Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, I am predominant and I ask you to give me an article of violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9444	I will. Thanks, buddy. I'm going to quote him now, because that's what I'm talking about. Mr. Vice President, I appeal to the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, Article 209(2). If the representative requests a word to correct the incorrect statement, the chairman will take away his word, etc. If I did not quote this item, let me do this, I quote, I have not yet corrected, I quote Mr. Former President of the Croatian Parliament, in your time I would have no right to either, nor to the replica, nor to the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Ms. Lalic expressed her opinion on conversion and privatisation. I repeat once again 200 families you should have published..
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9445	Dear MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9446	...between 200 families would be at least the names of HDZ and I repeat that collective responsibilities related to conversion and privatisation.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9447	Dear Representative Zdenka Babic-Petricevic..
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9448	...with a warning every criminal has a name and a last name. Now give me a warning.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9449	No injured Rules of Procedure 209. You've just injured the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9450	It's much more serious. Much more serious, and more human.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9451	It is up to the distinguished representative Frano Matušić. He's not in the assembly. He's losing his right to debate. The next word came from the esteemed representative Ivana Sučec-Tracostanec.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9452	So, of all things...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9453	I'm asking you upstairs in the bench not to throw.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9454	Of all things today, Mr. Vice President and dear colleagues I see and don't see discussing at least this report, and much more about what should be called the conversion of privatisation in the broadest sense of that word. So I'd let you do the same as the one who, when he's talking about something, wants to have all the elements in sight, and I think it'd be very fair then to have a comprehensive discussion about the economy, from 88-89 to today, which is part of the process and conversion and privatisation. So, we must not be alarmed about what we entered the new Croatian state, so one survey published in 88th said that in then-Socialist Croatia, or Yugoslavia, I apologize, and even in Croatia if it was part of it, one third was too busy, which will say that, in the course of the inevitable processes created by the introduction of a market economy by the decay of socialism and restructuring of the economy regardless of the type of ownership, that third of the million employees would have been left out of the business of the naked market laws, regardless of what type of liberal economy they were working on. So it's a finding and a fact that stands. We must also remember the structure of the economy we inherited. And I will never forget a fascinating lecture, Dr. Slavko Kulić, about 83rd in the Faculty of Economics that showed the dependence of the Yugoslav economy on power centres vertically outside Yugoslavia about the capital that was entering and had no chance to connect horizontally, so you had the case, that in Croatia we had no ability to produce and conclude certain works, so I know the exact example specifically. One agricultural machine in... Osijek, here's Mr. Kramaric and the beds from... So we found a whole warehouse of things that couldn't be put into operation because economic co-operation with Serbia stopped, and the bearings could have been that way, because they couldn't be found across Europe, because they were specialized and adapted to this particular type of machine, so they were these lawnmowers or these machines were totally unusable. It was a real state of our economy. Not to mention the work intensive activities of everything else. And whether or not we wanted privatisation had to come and start as a normal sequence of adaptation to the world we started connecting with and formally. And unfortunately, we had a condition that we didn't have a raised mengment. Today, we have very few people who are willing to take the risk of entering entrepreneurship and bearing responsibility for the job. So that's what happened in the privatisation process. That when the Croatian Democratic Community created together with the people of the state, it left all those directors, which, of course, someone would evaluate to the good, someone bad, means the legacy of the experience where in companies, we were all mastered in a way that nothing was mine, and I'm acting as if it were all mine and about those legacys, therefore, the financial results that were cut off, no one said a word today, therefore, and I would like it in that broad debate to take into consideration. It's the foundation with which we started to privatize. And I'm not going to talk about what's called book value and real market value because it was also a stumbling block all this time and today. So someone can get on paper, so this is a report as a set of historical data that I greatly appreciate and accept and support, but in that report there is no really going on in life because accounting only records what is written in some business documents. And that often doesn't have to be in agreement with the real situation in the economy and I'm saying it based on my own experience because we had a trial where one director taught five times a crane with a decision and a plaque of the supervisory board that I was in, and of course when the fifth time, or I don't know which time he sold it to the public auction under accounting value he ended up in court because they wanted to prove that he abused the company, of course it wasn't the case, so he was happily released. So, in all of this, there is a privatisation that has great examples. So we're just talking about bad examples here today, and nobody's talking about great examples of what they're going to say is that the whole process and the laws that were there gave them the opportunity to deal with it one way or another, so I also condemn anyone who deliberately abused a possible system. And let us be assured, regardless of the political structure that is currently in power, this is more a problem of our society's morals than that of a foreigner, unfortunately the lack of it is visible in all areas and also in this part of conversion and privatisation. And from this data, it is evident that applications have been filed and are not sanctioned, therefore, and the judiciary, with its trimming and unresolved problems, has contributed to the overall creation of that picture that all crime, theft, although I say it is not. Also, I don't have my dear colleague Mršić now, I didn't want to replicate him, a concrete example of the Source of Koprivnica is an example of dozens if not more of such companies so-called. the transport carrier in certain areas, which for years the decisions of the municipality were monopolies determined that only they were allowed to trade in some space swept into such an unreal state with high prices, too many employees with wealthy managers and poor businesses, would simply be converted or not in competition with privates, with foreign chains confused from the market and the following happened. So since 93rd, Koprivnica has not been in power of HDZ. So these hive directors could consume a better way to convert than to look for someone from outside and sell their shares when someone seemed very handsome for cash, so when they realized what they had done left without them and found themselves in unguarded grapes, they couldn't master what they themselves had acquired. So there were great examples, the pandan of this was the freedom of Great Gorica, who at the time was an excellent company because she had a management that knew how to recognize both the employees and the owners as well as the environment in which they live. It's also managerial contracts. Let's remember those big debates I watched on the other side of the television screen. And I would say that today is no less important talking here together than people watching us, because it turns out that we don't care what happens to conversion and privatisation than what we tell our voters about what they already know, so I guess they're for... Everyone in Croatia has heard of these other examples. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But maybe they're not really into all this, which is what we were talking about here today. And if I may say, perhaps not in the end, these reports show that in a lot of businesses, and we talked about the discrepancies of these values as an item of thieving is an exceptional land. Therefore, land in some companies that had antiquated technology may be worth more than the square meters it has, but also where it is, therefore, one of the market values that may bear more than the entire company. So in that part, I cannot accept that guilt is exclusively on the wrong laws, but the possibility of abuse of those who wanted to do so has made it possible for them to cast shadow on those who did so well. And I can't accept that privatization has genetically determined the standard of citizens. Unfortunately, citizens have been more affected by the legacy I spoke of over the past years and by the war, of course, which has brought all those costs that we would not have had and the additional consequences of the war. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9455	I would like to thank the esteemed representative in front of the Trakostane. The replica was reported by distinguished representative Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9456	I don't want to resist at all or deny my colleague who says that socialism was enormous losses, perhaps a third of the employees employed and the real need for their work was not. But that detail was also known by every entrepreneur and anyone who appeared in a stock exchange contest. However, it was still at wartime, so the risk was greatly increased. Not to say that the risk was increased because it was a transition period from one economy of socialist and agreed... They were all known elements but still these individuals signed contracts, contracts where they committed to increase the number of employees, increase economic activity, change the quality of capital, modernise. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, they knew everything, they signed differently. That's what's important to point out, that's what the review tells us. All those who went into conversion later to privatisation made it a good part irresponsible. They were neither aware of what was happening nor were they responsible for their signatures. But their biggest failure, I'd say what needs to be sanctioned is certainly the problem of being ruthless and firing workers but also by saving the property for themselves and moving on to themselves. They knew how to do that, and that was their primary interest. Therefore, one sign and with interest come to social property in order to kidnap both workers and others. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9457	I thank the esteemed representative Linic. For, next to the replica, the distinguished representative, and not, is a little late, the reply to the replica of Sučec-Trakostanec.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9458	So I'm not going to replicate this too much, if we've agreed together, so there have been some, so not everyone, not a general phenomenon, some who've done it with intent in advance. That's where we agreed, I suppose. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9459	Next in line for the replica, the esteemed representative Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9460	My colleague Sučec-Tracostanec certainly has the right to his opinion but I will say very briefly about fictitious employment and poor results, of course, that it was, but the solution to the conversion was given by the agency, the State Agency for Conversion and Privatisation. It also made the revision of conversion projects before privatisation, but it cannot be any reason to commit illegality in the privatisation process. Second, she has great examples. So we're not talking about privatisation here, we're talking about reviewing the audit and exactly the cases of illegality. And the third thing is why many, many of the illegalities that have been found here have not been sanctioned. So we know that, on two occasions, there was a change in the Penal Code when some of the acts in economic crime were abolished, business abuse was abolished, unconscious business. The deadlines have been reduced. All these reasons are that today many of these irregularities that the state audit is through the process of reviewing conversion and privatisation cannot be sanctioned and therefore it is Parliament's obligation to find opportunities for such cases to be also, if not otherwise, at least tax penalties.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9461	I thank the esteemed representative Zgrebec. Next in line is Honorable Representative Gordan Jandrokovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9462	Mr. Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. The sixth report presented is very similar to previous reports, and the irregularities found are almost equal to those established by previous audits. The data's not good. Irregularities in conversion, privatisation irregularities and business irregularities have been identified. It is concluded that in most cases the objectives set out in Article 1 have not been achieved by conversion and privatisation. The Privatization Act. It is therefore not achieved faster economic growth, the preservation of productive employment, technological modernisation, the introduction of new modern and efficient management methods and skills. Personally, I think it was wrong for the Privatisation Act to define the objectives mentioned because they depend not only on privatisation but on a whole series of social, political and economic elements. So when we talk about unachieved goals, we need to keep in mind the whole picture and not just one segment. So when we talk about conversion and privatisation, we should consider the following elements: inherited problems and inefficient agreed socialist economy, non-trust with private ownership and entrepreneurship, too many employees and technological backlogs, lack of quality management, loss of market due to the collapse of the former state and the collapse of the eastern bloc, and what is most important is the Homeland War or war conflict. Further, by looking at the figures presented in the report, we cannot conclude anything about the theory of 200 wealthy families, nor can we conclude anything about the system that was aimed at robbing national wealth. Nowhere in transition countries, privatisation has achieved its objectives and has caused dissatisfaction and great dissatisfaction with citizens. I believe that every privatisation has been a success, a failure of story to myself and I support those who advocate individual approach in the analysis and achievements of privatisation, as well as individual consent in responsibility for the possible crimes committed. Why would I bring that up? Because there is a small number of successfully realised privatisations whose cases should also be mentioned and taken as a positive example because privatisation is necessary, and there are many more companies to privatise and achieve the objectives defined by the Privatisation Act. I therefore believe that mistakes and certain injustices have been committed but I believe that, in the course of privatisation, they must not be repeated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9463	I thank the esteemed representative Jandrokovic. Next is the distinguished representative Slavko Linic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9464	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues. I remember the time of the adoption of the Law on the Revision of Conversion and Privatisation. It is very often then pointed out that if we enter this process, it will endanger companies, create a certain instability in the economy, in some ways drive foreign investors and entrepreneurs away and threaten domestic capital. Today, after the sixth report, we can really say that none of these black forecasts have been realized. The economy is going its own way. There's no instability, and we have a sixth report indicating that maybe by the end of the year we'll bring in the whole audit business to an end. But now we hear certain debates. Did we need all this and what are the effects? And obviously we have a different approach to the work of the State Audit Office, and what is business and policies and executive authorities, judicial authorities and parliamentary authorities? What we can say today is that the State Office as well as its regular audit and this job has been extremely completed. Why extraordinary? So remember, we've had a lot of audits, and I also remind you that the defense attorneys, the resistances, the conflicts, the prerogatives, and here's one hard job in even private companies, I believe that no one has been comfortable, but properly well done work, professionally done work. And what's worth saying is a job where we have irregularities, we have names, we have values regardless of whether they're financial or other material values. We have it all in this lab. What can we say that we won with the implementation of this Law? We can get, say we finally got real data on the privatisation failures. Real data on what's been going on. I would tell politicians first and foremost that we are no longer talking about what is legally or unlawfully implemented in any commercial society, whether the figures are such or such, whether we have less real data now. I must say that I resent my colleague Caine, who in the debate today also mentioned successful legal privatisation and once again put a sign of suspicion from this pay phone. And why did he question him? Well, because he thinks they've earned too much, that they're successful. The mention of the tobacco factory is four or five of them are now rich, and privatisation and conversion have been carried out in the spirit of existing laws with shareholders. No one will say that there are companies really in these 12, 13 years that they knew very well thanks to the owners to choose the right path to development. Now we're unhappy because they're rich. And that's why this audit serves us so we can tell them who was bad, who was a failure, who was successful? And who else was on the trail of the law, and who broke them? On the other hand, I believe that sociologists will certainly have a chance to deal with this revision and this problem. Has the right path of privatisation and conversion been chosen, where we have sinned, in what we have sinned? Why didn't we sanction? How many failed administrations didn't know enough about matter and problem? How many of those who connected with each other and simply caused damage? It's something we need because we need to talk about where and how we could change something and be more successful. We need to get closer to all those problems we didn't know how to deal with properly. That moment and the problem among our citizens will be resolved more easily. When we openly discuss these problems, when we simply try and answer that the workers themselves who entered the stock exchange have become owners, lack of supervision, simply mischosen administrations, a lot of bad people who didn't know how to deal with or deal with the problem of the market economy. This is all what we openly need to talk about in Croatian society, and then your problems and I would say suffering will be easier to cure. It remains and what is fundamental is not a problem just over 300 thousand lost jobs, 500 thousand people are retired and there are no conditions for retirement. So 800 thousand jobs are one way or another because of the problem of transition, because of the failures of people, but also because of the failure to implement this law model, it has clearly lost regular income from its work. We've lost the opportunity to do military work and create good RH but it's clearly good for your family. That's what we need to talk about. We have to say that the audit of the wet finishes its work, no one has any objections even the companies in which irregularities were removed could express themselves but do not dispute the findings. Which is now. Well, as with this morning's audit, do we have the courage to consider what steps we need to take. One state office did its job. Apparently, the former coalition government and I have been struggling with criminal legislation, but let's open this topic. Let's not give each other a chance, why we're not politically responsible, and we don't open up a topic which means retrograde punishment, we can give just one crime, or I'd say a failure of lawlessness in that conversion and privatisation is a retrograde punishment. So let's talk about it. Or we'll totally throw it away because he doesn't know what. Let's talk about what else we can use with the tax system against those who destroyed the companies. Fired the workers but made a personal fortune. Is the one who lost the company lost the workers and the same sirmah is one story, but the one who got rich because he pulled the property out of that company for his personal account. If we can miss him, we can't. It's an executive's job, it's a job and a parliamentary government. Are we going to talk about how taxes can get their hands on them? On the other hand, the fired labors of unpaid wages, huge wealth in individuals, gave paid taxes. These are all our decisions that we can enforce and how to engage in sanctioning these decisions I would like to react to the data now concerning the functioning of the tax administration, but certainly certain laws that can be made. Of course, this revision with these data aggregated that points to enormous material damage, but I would say those 800 thousand people who have been victims of such failures can serve justice. A court that has been slowed down in the adoption of sanctions measures. We know that there are both Kutle and Gucic that not all of them, who have not fought for the market economy, but even trade systems have drawn money and have not developed activity. This is what the judiciary now and with such data must have in its decision making and on the speed of proceedings but also for final decisions in the prejudices a little bit different to observe. I therefore believe that this report can indeed have a huge value both sociological and political both economically and legally. And it's up to all of us to try and use it. And for us, it is part of our responsibility to take action through legislative regulation, individual sanctioning of what has been observed in this revision.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9465	Thank you. Replica esteemed representative Ivana Sučec Trakoštanec.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9466	I don't know if it's a very special replica, but I'd like to remind you all together Mr. Linic that and the success that we're talking about in principle is a very relative category. Why? Because we live in an economy where the country's biggest investor is so sad to say that sometimes success can only be measured by how successful you've got a government job, and that's where we go to war until the end, so to speak, if that's what I know from my life and that's the building lobby. So the success of a company depends on the success of getting a job, and that is what we need as representatives to create a positive climate of entrepreneurship in the private sector to eliminate and reduce to the least possible measure. So that they work for a market for an unknown buyer or for a buyer in the private sector rather than solely for the executioner of a job, for those paid from a state budget. Here in that part I don't know if it's a replica, but I think we're complementing ourselves in this presentation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9467	Thank you. Reply to the replica, respected representative Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9468	So it is certain that private entrepreneurs did not support the development of the Republic of Croatia enough, they have insufficient projects and are under-independenced in development. The question remains whether to rely entirely on foreign communications and foreign entrepreneurs and to expect them to be the salvation for Croatia. Or there is a red answer that is to expand the investment market in Croatia, and that is why they were state investments in the previous four years. It means not to suppress private entrepreneurship, and in some ways to take away any market but vice versa, to create a basis for them to be strengthened and to work on the domestic market, working for the state of the attempt to really rely on investing in their own development and investment in Croatia. I therefore believe that based on state investment, many entrepreneurs will find challenges for their own development.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9469	Thank you very much. And the last speaker, the esteemed representative of Ivica Clem.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9470	Mr. President, the state's chief auditor, colleagues and colleagues. Here's a brief review of this audit report. It's what he's aware of. The problem with conversion and privatisation was. Perhaps the causes should also be sought in the times after World War II when there was also one privatisation, where every private enterprise was taken away, the society and where the main cause of all the troubles that the Croatian economy had after this Homeland War had just come out. The failure to privatise and convert is certainly and there is no law that is ideal and that will give us everything that life will give us in a typical form. And today, we need to take advantage of all the experiences we've had and not repeat these mistakes we've made in recent times in times ahead. It is thought that the task of both the Croatian Parliament and of course the Croatian Government are to move towards a strategy of the operational strategy of the continuation of privatisation, because that is the only way we will keep up in the region as a country that should be leading right in this region. Therefore, on the road from the planning economy to the social market economy, there is a need to continue to privatise state-owned enterprises, but also to transform public administration, as we can also witness today that many of the laws that have been existing in Croatia for a long time have not been implemented, such as the completion or recording of all those social ones owned by the Republic of Croatia. There are certainly problems and the Croatian judiciary, but we will face these problems until the moment we simply create such a public administration that will be able and staff to respond to all the conditions ahead of us and who expect us. Of course, we can and must make a great contribution and of course this State Audit report will serve us as one foundation and one lesson that we do not make mistakes in future times. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9471	Thank you. Does the State Auditor want to take the floor? Would you like to take the word Mrs Krasic? No, I don't. Thank you very much. Then I'm closing the argument. Report of the State Audit Office on the work on the implementation of the audit, conversion and privatisation, Report on the audits of conversion and privatisation carried out. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposals of the working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: A report by the State Office on the revision of the work on the implementation of the audit, conversion and privatisation shall be adopted, the Assessment of the revisions of conversion and privatisation carried out. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? I find that with 111 votes for and 1 abstention, the proposed conclusion has been reached. In accordance with the proposal of the Club LIBRE, I am voting on the following conclusion: The State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia is in charge of providing the Croatian Assembly with the Report on the Procedures relating to the Crimes in Conversion and Privatisation at the same time as the Report of the State Office for Auditing the work on the implementation of the audit, conversion and privatisation and the Report on the revisions of the conversion and privatisation carried out by 30 June and 31 December of the current year. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? I find it unanimous with 113 votes to mention, the proposed conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9474	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I think that all those who have read this extremely short law is quite clear on what we have decided to propose it to the Croatian Parliament, under what conditions and what we want to achieve with it. At first, I stress, the Republic of Croatia guarantees, by its Constitution, the right to help meet the basic and life needs of all the weak, powerless and unsettled. It's a constitutional provision. The Republic of Croatia has a social assistance system that unfortunately does not include all those who really need help. This is especially true of the older part of the population, especially those who are no longer able to cope with life’s age, perhaps sickness, life - related circumstances, which they have followed through life, who are no longer able to care for themselves or their mate anymore. According to the Croatian Peasant Party, when it comes to social assistance and when it comes to all resources allocated from the state budget for social assistance for various support, care, etc. and those who are guided by the needy, therefore weak, powerless, unsettled, that all these means must first and foremost be distributed on the fundamental principle of righteousness. So justice is a fundamental principle for us to distribute available resources. We are fully aware of the fact that few countries are in the world, and especially that Croatia is not in a position to say that there are enough budgets for those transfers that serve precisely these purposes that I am talking about. These funds are never enough and we will probably wait another whole number of years until we are in a position to say Croatia can use available means in view of the level of development of its own economy, creating a new value, the total level of gross domestic product can separate enough funds by some objective criteria for all to be satisfied. Since we are not in such a situation, and since we have the dare to say quite adequately developed social care, it would be a shame to leave out of that concern part of the public who is really calling for such care and for such help at this moment. And precisely because all the groups of our population in our country could be in a situation of realising their constitutional right of assistance for the fundamental needs of life, given that this principle is not satisfied for now, we have organised and we propose to the Croatian Assembly the adoption of this Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Pension Insurance Act. We estimate and believe that these estimates are quite accurate, that about 58 thousand people living in the Republic of Croatia now over 58 years old, who are either without any income or with a pension or with social assistance less than 640 kuna. 640 kuna is a minimum pension under Article 22. Pension Insurance Act, which is set at 19% of the budget base. We think it's some kind of social consensus about the minimum resources needed to meet the basic needs of life, and that's why we're actually starting with the fact that it's connected to that minimum pension. Under this proposal, those who have no income would be entitled to a full national pension of 640 kuna and those who have either a lower pension or who receive less social assistance, they would make the difference between what they receive and this full amount of national pension of 640 kuna. In addition to what I said, there are some other laws that provide basic assumptions about who and how he has the right to realise, or to run for a national pension. Since we have tried to be careful and according to the future necessary resources from the state budget and the creation of what kind of environment of total justice we have been determined to propose to the Croatian Parliament that if they are married partners and both of them at the same age and in the same material situation that only one of them can exercise the right to this national pension. That only those who lived between 15 and 65 years of their lives and who lived in Croatia for a minimum period of 30 years can achieve this right. That a person entitled to a national pension in this amount, and eventually moved out of the Republic of Croatia, would lose the right to that national pension. And yet another restriction, that income, which determines the possibility that at all human beings are competing for national pensions, therefore, the amount of his pension that is below 640 kuna, the social aid that is below 640 kuna, with the number of his incomes would not enter the compensation for physical damage, would not enter the allowance for care and assistance, would not enter the orthopedic supplement and would not enter the person with disabilities. In this way we think that we have actually created circumstances for those who are relatively healthy under similar conditions to consume this right at 640 kuna, and for those whose health and work opportunities are further affected by some additional diseases, to retain their rights and additionally to their national pension. It is no coincidence that we have attached ourselves to Article 22. The Pension Insurance Act and that we are actually with this 19% budget base and these 640 kunas, which are certainly not too rich, they are the same at the edge of objectivity and objectively possible life of these means, but considering that these 640 kunas are through Article 22. In fact, the Pension Insurance Act represents the pension of an insurance man who spent a minimum of 15 years of his life at work. Of course, it is possible to criticize this proposal, especially from the point of view that why should we even the one who has worked for 15 years and the one who hasn't worked at all? These criticisms are certainly possible, but I don't think that these criticisms should be too strict, because we have to remember the fact that it's the first thing about people of a certain age, when they're no longer in a situation to worry about themselves, when it comes to people who probably haven't been lucky enough to buy through life these 15 years of internships or those who couldn't, say, Croatian peasants, farmers pay for pension contributions or pay for only one part of the years and give up because they simply didn't have more opportunities. Therefore, criticism is possible for this criterion, to equalise the national pension with 15 years of internship, but we do not think that this fact should be judged too strongly because, in fact, all these categories of people still fall into that part of the constitutional provisions of Article 57, which states that the state guarantees all minimum means of life. There is a certain resistance, but always with positive assessments that the idea of introducing a national pension for those who need it most, for the poorest, the oldest, etc., but that it should not become part of the pension system. And I have read such criticisms in the preparation of this Law. I would like to make it very clear, according to this Bill National Pension proposed this way, and for it is required at an annual level of approximately nearly 300 million kuna, it would be financed exclusively from the state budget. And it would be financially neutral compared to the pension system. Therefore, the Law stipulates that this, provided that this national pension is financed exclusively from the state budget and that only the transfer of those, according to those, goes through the pension system because we simply hold that it would be inappropriate to do so in a different way. In this way, the national pension would not go on the burden of any insurance company, would not go on the burden of any pensioner, but on the other hand we have to admit the fact by considering this Law and wanting to be objective, that part of these people out of the 58 thousand on our account and our assumptions were still working. Because our peace code says legally on a minimum pension has one who's done 15 years of internship, and what about those who are 14 and 9 months old, which is with those who are 13 years old, which is with those who are still a few years old. The largest number of people who do not have the right to retire worked and our peasants paid 5, 6 or 10 years of payment to the Mirovinski Fund because they could no longer simply pay. So, if we're saying that someone is going to go into a ban and eventually use their assets then and there, we need to be objective, that the state has still accumulated in the pension fund some of the funds of those who have never earned the right to a pension, and 5, 10 or 14 or a half years have still paid, they've been paying their funds into pension funds. I am very often reading the conclusions of our committees, so in the end and the conclusions of our government, the government's view that the idea is acceptable, that the idea is good, but that there are a variety of reasons that I, through the debate, have already stressed through this exhibition, that it could not be through the form of a national pension in this way but that other solutions should be sought. I would say, the acceptability of the idea, the assessment of the idea as good, and the rejection for some formal reasons, I would simply call it a good model to reject the idea of good, to get the impression that we are all for this idea, but that by law we do not adopt it and that these 48 thousand people still have no help. So I simply appeal, let's not only evaluate this proposal as a good idea, it costs a lot, but let's remember the principle we're trying to inaugurate here, the principle of justice, let's try to remember constitutional provisions, that the state must help everyone and ultimately try this injustice for those who need social transfers and social assistance in the most just way. Among these people there may be those who are watching us, who often see the Croatian Parliament as a straw for all of their life’s problems. No one knows in life how or where it will end, and no one knows what age it will be, so I see no reason why this House would have greater understanding and no understanding for others. So, I ask that what is on all committees, and even in the opinion of the Government, is written, that the idea is good, that it should be realised, but not under this Law. I'm asking that we try to solve through the amendments, try to solve through some alternative proposal, I don't care. If it's important to anyone in this assembly who's going to wear this feather that brought a national pension in this sense to the Croatian citizens, I'm going to give up the idea, there's no problem, but let's try to understand that there are people who expect honest, eager, for years to be helped. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9475	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP Club, a respected representative of Gordana Sobol. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9476	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. Mirovina, I suppose we all know that, is a public institute through which citizens can earn income in that age when they are no longer able to contribute to life. The end line is about the allocation of goods and services to the individual required throughout his life council. Namely, under the means of the pension insurance system, an individual part of his spending that could reach an active age delay for the future when he will be older and more powerless. Minimum contributions for the safety of old people can be given in different forms. Thus, we distinguish conditional grants such as social assistance, income check fees, contributions or unconditional giving to old people, such as retirement or national pensions. The national pension is intended for all old people above a certain age, nationals of a country who have lived for a number of years in that country and have no other income, whether or not they have been or have not been formally employed. Such national pensions are mainly financed from general taxes. In this case, the government finances the minimum pension income of all citizens through fiscal means. The starting point of civil status of pensioners, not employment and payment of contributions. As it is in Europe, I will give a few European examples. In Finland, the minimum requirement for a basic pension is a 3-year stay after 16 years of life, and is retired at 65 years of age. In Denmark, a 3-year stay is between 15 and 67 years old, and is retired at 67 years of age. In the Netherlands, he retires at 65 years of age and there are no minimum conditions for a basic pension. There is always a 3-year stay in Sweden, and it retires at 65. In the strategy of the development of the Republic of Croatia, Croatia in the 21st century of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, in the pension chapter, is proposed to introduce a basic so-called Zero part of social security for old age. This part of the pension and social system should be financed from the state budget. It would protect persons who had not been employed or who had been insured for a relatively short period of time and who had no income whatsoever. In this regard, we at the SDP Club and we support the good intensity of the proposings, which wants to exercise the right for older people who are not insured on any basis, and we therefore consider it acceptable and necessary. However, in the SDP Club, we cannot fully agree with the proposed solution, under which the beneficiaries of national pensions would be entitled to a pension of the lowest pension of 15 years. Since it is, however, the right for which no contributions are paid, and the level of the right must be different. So we think that they can't be equalized by people who have spent years of their income and financed their pensions, contributions, people who haven't been formally employed or singled out for pensions. We are also in the Club of Opinions that we should discuss the name itself. In the SDP Club, we believe that under the concept of national pensions, the right to retire should be regulated, for example, to the credited citizens of the Republic of Croatia, academics, scientists, well-deserved artists, athletes and the like. The SDP club, otherwise these days, referred to the procedure of its draft law, which we propose to introduce the Institute of Social Pensions. Which would be covered by a pension insurance system with social security elements. At this stage, we have found ourselves in the existing minimum ageing frameworks in the framework of pension insurance and social care, as well as the international organisation of work on the minimum level of social security, as well as the European Union rules on the application of the social security system for workers, members of the independent activities and members of their families moving within the community. Finally, I repeat, the SDP Club supports good intensity, the proposal of the promoters, and we will support this bill's proposal to go to another reading and, by the way, I hope that, in the meantime, our proposal on behalf of the SDP Club will be on the agenda, and we believe that it would then be an opportunity to discuss one and another proposal, and hopefully find the most favourable solution, which could be acceptable for all members of this House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9477	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS Club, the esteemed representative of Dragutin Lesar. He's gone. On behalf of the HSS Club, respected representative Ivan Kolar.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9478	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. So here's the second time right now for the first time in this session, but the last term is the same, we're trying to present it and bring it closer and finally solve it. Our name national pension also implies a national consensus on such a single proposal better said. There should be no difference when we talk about taking care of those who need it. It has already been said here that we are trying to take care of in one transparent way all those who are not aware under what conditions, that I do not now list them left without any income, either at the level of social care or this time pension. I remind you that it is the obligation of the state to care equally for the rich and the poor to take as much as possible and under known conditions as those who have and distribute it in a just and just way, to take care of those who do not. I know that it is difficult in this way that it is now established to worry about and that it is a huge burden of the social community, but it is our obligation, equality, availability and justice that we should be given the basic tasks especially to us advocates, and in this sense this initiative assumes more injustices to correct. I in one segment, I say a little wider now, and these are peasants, those are the categories, or that group of people who preserved faith, tradition, who in the way of peasant pride resisted both dignity and preserved this pride, where he worked with his work and then, while the greatest conukture was a worker, when the worker had to do well in order to feed the population he gave up and it aimed at the price repeatedly that the product was undervalued, achieved less income, but the social useful work was. I realize it's not adequate or marked or fund-raisers were created. However, time has passed, time is running away and this is an initiative for all of us to agree on such a way to take care of these people. Namely, these are the mahogany households, which now, by no law, except for their dignity and pride to step down, to apply to social work centres and to beg to be taken care of. They were left behind from children and descendants for mercy and mercy; the earth did not give birth to itself, for they have nothing to bear, and they are unsettled. This is an appeal primarily for those. It is also an appeal to those already mentioned, and today the debate has shown that privatisation of conversion and all that has been proved by a large part, many people have left that their pension fund payments have simply been violated by their right and inaccessibility of the use of such rights. I appeal that the good intentions we have can easily turn into a useful idea. The funds if they are inaccessible now is and such is the government's position they are not impossible to take care of at this time. And here we have, the possibility of delayed application, but that's what we need to express ourselves clearly. I know it looks like a certain point to someone right now. However, I can assure you that the situation is not in our favor. That every day there is an increase in the number of such cases that they are a serious threat to the violation of a system that has been set up and inability to calm down all needs that arise. If they are such intentions as ours are now analysed, it is easier to control them, because now, mostly where social work centres are presently involved, the local administration, the state budget and it is difficult to control all these funds are spent in this section in one way or another. In particular, one category that would take care of this legislative proposal is those pensioners of the rural population who are not covered by the amendments to the pension insurance laws, better put forward those pensions where part of the population of the peasant population remains at 364 kuna, below any average and where the country, the expensive budget does not directly participate in the settlement of peasant pensions. This proposal balances such a pension with the lowest pension that is now 760, 860, or if it happens to be a female person and how a family pension and 1000 kuna. The proposal is to increase such pensions to the lowest basis, as this is the assumption that such nursing households get real satisfaction for society to care for them. I warn that we have repeatedly warned about this status of peasant pensions that are actually unsustainable. If nothing more than this law, intervention should be made in this section to equalise such pensions with that lowest basis for obtaining a pension. Because these peasants were wrongly abolished, they paid for some years as long as they were allowed to retire and their pensions were not corrected by those amendments and amendments to the laws on the settlement of peasant pensions. Here, these three categories we're talking about have a lot of moral right and wait for this Parliament to be materially secured. Well, it's our appeal to the HSS Club not only to end up at the government's conclusion as the last time the government accepted it as an initiative. To consider a possible proposal and make her own proposal. If this is the case, we accept, on behalf of the HSS Club, that we wait for all initiatives and eventually unite but that all these proposals are united and that this problem will ultimately be resolved. I think we're absolutely right about this. We expect ultimately support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9479	I thank Mr. Representative Evey Kolar. Does the proposaler's representative, the respected representative Zlatko Tomcic, want on behalf of the promoter? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9480	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The debate was brief, it seems contentable and I will complete the content of this House's thinking with quotes from some committees. The Committee on Family, Youth and Sports wrote, among other things, that the idea of introducing a right for older people who are not provided on any basis is acceptable. And now there's that but. Something similar happened on the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry, which says it fully supports the idea of introducing the right to receive older people who are not provided on any basis and who, without minimum social security, are. However, behind this we have a Committee on Labour, Social Policy and Health which is the same they went a little backwards, they wrote first why the law could not be adopted and then they said, however, the idea is good, that it is the obligation of the state to take care of this category of their citizens who did not work and based on the work they did not achieve receipts etc., etc. The Government of the Republic of Croatia wrote something similar. In her opinion, she said about it. The government of the Republic of Croatia fully supports the idea of introducing the right to certain receptions to older people. However, the issue of whether the requested solution is found in the proposed concept of the law as the right to a national pension in the pension scheme has been raised has been raised. All those doubts I understand and understand. All the remarks that were made by the two clubs that discussed, of course they could be the subject of serious conversations. I don't have any conditions, I think the subject is so important that simply neither the Proposer nor anyone can around this topic be stubborn. Whether this is going to be called a national pension, whether social or otherwise, it doesn't matter. Whether it's just going to be 640 kunas or 620 kunas and it doesn't matter. But it's important for me to base these obviously identical thoughts on committees, obviously the same thinking on the government, obviously the same thinking in this brief, in this brief debate that what Mr. Representative Kolar calls a national consensus can be built. Let's try it on one question, it's a neutral question, a question that is primarily social, human, moral, let's try as a House on this issue to create some kind of agreement on national or social pension is quite whatever. Let's try to ignore the fact that we don't come from all the parties, try to ignore the fact that we're all fighting for some kind of political point in public, etc., let's try to say HSS gives up this project as its project, this will be the project of this House. Let us try to think in this way that these 58 thousand people see that there is one Parliament in this country, their Parliament, their highest national representation of these 152 people who can at least agree on the fate of old people over 65 years old. Let's try that. We can do that if there's any good will, if we miss this law in the second reading. You know those who will vote for the rejection of the law in the first reading will not refuse the HSS to reject these 58 thousand people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9481	Dear fellow Tomcic, please choose on the amendment law and amendments to the pension insurance law. He's a proposer of the HSS Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9482	Thank you very much, Mr. President. For the last few days, I have appealed three times to this home to try to reach a consensus on some issues. This was the issue of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the VAT Act. It's a transportable subject. My appeal has not been accepted. It was an appeal related to the gradual exclusion of ships with a single shell. We did it today. My appeal has not been accepted. Last night, by presenting the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Pension Insurance Act, I was also present with representatives who, for the sake of their will, were very little in the Chamber, asked the same thing to try at least to reach some agreement in this House, thus proving that there are questions that we do not make ideological differences, in which we do not only conflict because there is a majority and some minority. And yet here I am, just before I vote on this law in my first reading, I will appeal to know what the proposals of the working bodies are that this Law be missed in the second reading. The reasons for this appeal are very clear. In its opinion, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has also assessed that this idea is fully supported and the Committee on Labour and Social Policy and Health has also supported the idea but has its own reasons why the bill refuses? The same happened on the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry, which says it fully supports the idea of introducing the right to certain receptions to older people who are not provided on any basis and who are without a minimum of social security. The Committee for Family, Youth and Sport with very similar conclusions concluded the same. I talked about it in more detail last night, describing all these conclusions as supporting the idea but refusing the law. So let's not be naive. There's no such thing as support for the idea. There is either support of the law or rejection of the law. And I think it's simply one farce towards those for whom this Law was written. Let me remind you: this law is written for those people over 65, who have neither minimum existential conditions nor minimum income to be able to achieve such a normal life. We pulled a parallel with the people who worked for 15 years who thus gained the right to retire from 19% of the budget base, which today makes up 640 kuna. Not much, not quite sure enough, but yet some possibility of life and existence exists. I also said that the voices that say we can't even the ones who worked 15 years and those who haven't worked for 15 years or didn't work at all are justified. Of course, when it comes to the existence, when it comes to the constitutional provision of Article 57, which guarantees all its citizens minimal means of coping with basic living needs, then even this possible objection should not be so harshly tried. So I'm recapitulating. This law provides that people who are over 65 years of age who have not obtained the right to a minimum pension and who have not obtained enough social assistance and social assistance or pensions are below 640 kuna or do not have it at all, are entitled to those 640 kunas who have nothing entirely and those who have some kind of income difference between those who have up to these 640 kunas. I also said that we estimate that such persons of this moment in the Republic of Croatia have about 58 thousand. I believe that all those who have been discussing on the working bodies and this very short debate yesterday, had precisely taken into account the fact that it is the rooms that can no longer provide themselves with material income for some bearable existence. And that's exactly why this idea was called acceptable, good and so on, but when the law is to be passed then everyone has written the conclusion that the law is not accepted. I simply appeal once again and ask to consider what part of the population it is. I'm not asking for the adoption of a final bill, I don't have any right either personally or on behalf of the club to be the authors of this law. In view of the fact that the government has also made a clear statement of the atoms to a whole series of working bodies. Since the SDP Club has also made a similar proposal in the procedure of simply this moment please, for the sake of great agreement both clubs and working bodies have on the fact that the idea is good to miss out on the second reading. And try to find some common solutions in my second reading. And another sentence. By rejecting this proposal you will not reject HSS you will reject these 58 thousand people who do not have minimum living conditions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9483	I thank the esteemed representative Tomcic. In accordance with the proposal from the working bodies, I am voting on the next conclusion. The draft amending and supplementing law on pension insurance is not adopted. who has proposed a club of representatives of the HSS for the reasons set out in the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the reports of the working bodies. The club of representatives of the HSS asked for a name vote, so we will clear this name vote and do it. We therefore vote on the proposal for a conclusion is not to accept the draft law amending and supplementing the Pension Insurance Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9484	Jane Adam-za, Đurđa Adlešić -, Irena Ahel -za, Zdenko Antešić -, Ingrid Antičević-Marinović - opposite, Željka Antunović -, Franjo Arapović -, Mato Arlović - opposite, Zdenka Babić-Fričević -za, Stjepan Bačić -za, Ivan Bagarić -, Marija Bajt -, Drazen Banac -, Ljubica Brdarić -, Mate Brletić -za, Mirjana Brnadić - za, Jure Bitunjac -za, Florijan Bukić -, Boras -, Dražan Bošna Božaković -, Živ, Živanje, Živanje Hrović, Žir, Žirić, Žirić, Žirja Brletić, Miračina Brletić Zdenko Antešić, Željko Antunović, Ivo Banac, Snježana Biga-Friganović, Radimir Čačić - v, Ivan Čehok, Miljenko Doric, Valter Drandić, Anto Đapić, Srečana Ferenčak, Mirko Filipović, Ratko Gajica, Zdenko Haramić, William Herman, Nikola Ivaniš, Ljubo Jurčić, Damir Kain, Alenka Košina Čicin-Sain, Pero Kovačević, Zlatko Kramarić, Ivan Lončar, Šime Lugarić, Marija Lugarić, Božidar Pankretić, Jelena Pavić Vukić, Dorotea Pesić-Bukovac, Valter Poropt, Milorad Pupovac, Vesna Pusić, Jozo Radošić, Miroslav Sobol, Darko Šantić, Šantić, Šentić, Šunić, Šjem Pović, Vović Pović, V.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9485	My colleagues and colleagues find that with 75 votes in favour and 39 against the accepted proposal for a conclusion. In accordance with the proposal of the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry, I am voting on the following conclusion: The Government of the Republic of Croatia is obliged to regulate, on the occasion of the addition of the pension system and social care systems, and the right to certain receptions to older persons who are not insured on any basis and who are without a minimum of social security. Who's in favor of this conclusion? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? I find it unanimous with 112 votes to reach the proposed conclusion. Thank you. I'm closing the debate. Next item is. - Final proposal for a law on the safety protection of commercial ships and ports opened for international transport, with a final bill, an emergency procedure, first and second reading of P.Z. No. 60 The Proposer is Government. When establishing the agenda, we accepted the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of this Act. The emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committees on Law, Maritime Affairs, Transport and Links and European Integration. You received the reports at the session. I would like the Secretary of State at the Ministry of the Sea, Tourism, Transport and Development of Branko Bačić to further explain the proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9487	Thank you, Mr. President, distinguished ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. The proposal for a law on the safety protection of commercial ships and ports opened for international transport is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia by emergency procedure in order to comply with national legislation in due time with international acts laid down by standards, in particular in the section relating to the protection of commercial ships and ports opened for international, international transport. Otherwise, the initiative itself to pass this Act was created on the subject of amendments to international conventions on the protection of human life at sea... Conventions that the International Maritime Organisation amended following known tragic events that took place in New York on 11 September 2001. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Immediately after these events, the International Maritime Organisation wanted to establish international instruments and legal frameworks to try to carry out as much protection as possible of commercial ships and, and ports as possible, because it is also in its jurisdiction. Since the adoption of international conventions often requires a long time and it would have been safe and several years before the International Maritime Organisation ratified the new Convention, the decision of the International Maritime Organisation within the existing Convention "Solas Convention" would have adopted an international Code on the Safety of Ships and Port Spaces and thus, practically, in a very short time, ratified and adopted a document obliging all parties or members of the International Maritime Organisation to comply with this international code or ASPS code. On the basis of this code, the Government of the Republic of Croatia in its last term of office, on 13 November 2003, at a time when the Assembly did not meet, adopted a Regulation on the security of commercial ships and ports opened for international transport, just to bring our legislation into line as soon as possible with this international code on the protection and safety of ships and port spaces, and later the Assembly at its session 1st constitutive session and adopted it and thus became a regulation with legal force. What was the result, in fact, of the International Maritime Organization responding very quickly? After these, as I said earlier in the tragic events in New York, certainly today in international maritime transport, which is rapidly increasing by the fact that the seas are sailing and significantly larger ships, larger capacities and carrying various loads are primarily harmful and dangerous and there is a possibility that virtually new tragedies in international ports would happen for reasons why, which such ships could become... how an acceptable means clearly for the market that such ships could use for new tragedies at seaports. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] So as a party to this international maritime organisation, we have a duty and our legislation to comply with this, with this convention. In that sense, this Law goes into this procedure today by emergency procedure. What's the most important thing to say here? The most important thing to say is that the deadline within which we have to comply with this legislation is to force our commercial ships and our ports open to international public transport on 1 July and practical if it did not, if commercial ships did not make their own safety assessments and protection plans, and if international ports or ports open to international public transport would not bring their own safety assessments and make their own safety plans, it could happen that after 1 July our ships could not sail to foreign ports, and so our foreign ports would be blocked and could not be boarded by international or foreign commercial vessels. In addition to the provisions defined by this ASPS Code on the Security Protection of Commercial Ships and Ports, this Act is also based on the International Convention on Standards for Training of Authorisation and Keeping of Seafarers and then on the International Code of Security of Management and as regards National Regulatory, the Law is based on the Law on Infringements because, as you could see in the law, in the criminal provisions provided for in the establishment, the establishment of a Violation Council is practically based on the Law on Infringements. So the aim of this Act is to create this one, one framework in which they should cooperate on the one hand, commercial ships and on the other hand, an international port open to international traffic, so that the level of security, clearly in the state and first order, and on ships and in the ports themselves, can be raised to the highest possible level. What is particularly regulated by law is the general provisions define the purpose of the adoption of the law. The essential concepts to which the law is later applied and relating to the type of ship, the cargo of passengers, the usual manner of operation of the shipowners and the significance of the port to which this Law applies. Articles 5 to 7 define the national authorities which control the enforcement of this Act and which prescribes the manner and procedure in which the State, to which the national authorities refer in determining, determine the safety plan of the ship itself. Articles 8 to 19 define the safety protection of the ship, define the business of the ship's owner and define the work of the ship's commander, ship's officers and other crew members, and procedures related to safety plans, safety plans, ship's safety protection. Articles 20 and 21 also define the activities of the ship-owner company and identify the persons responsible for the safety of the ship in the company. Articles 22 to 31 define the tasks of the port security guard and the obligation to draw up for each port a security protection plan and, on the other hand, is defined, so a security protection assessment is defined, the design of the port's security plan. In, this, here, it is important to mention that this Law is prescribed, there are organisations that can develop a safety plan, security of the port and, and I must say, at this point, only one in the foreign ministry is a recognised organisation that develops a security plan for the port. When I speak, to return, when I talk about the safety of the ship then it is the duty of society and shipowners to draw up a Security Protection Plan, and this security plan is certified by the Croatian Register of Ships. Articles 34 to 37 identify how to train persons for the safety protection of the ship itself and the port itself and the prescribed exercises that must precede the training of crew members and members of the responsible persons in the ports themselves. I still have to say here the next fact that for three months the Ministry has been active with port administrations either public port administrations or port administrations that have been conducting training responsible persons in the ports themselves so that the law can be fully implemented. Articles 38 and 39 are laid down provisions on inspection supervision to be regulated by a detailed, detailed rules and regulations which have actually been done since practically this Act came from the Regulation on the safety protection of ships and ports. Maritime infringements are also prescribed, which are resolved in the first instance by the Council for Infringements of an individual port captainship, and in the second degree is resolved by the Ministry of the Sea, Tourism, Transport and Development and which is practically based on the Law on Infringements. The transitional and final provisions of Articles 51 to 55 stipulate the entry into force of the Law and the regulations adopted in the meantime and resulting from the Maritime Code. What I can finally say is that, that the Croatian Register of Ships is already fully monitoring and effective implementation of this Act in the part relating to the safety protection of ships and in that part, with more success, all our shipowners practically comply with this Act because it is an extremely serious threat that if they did not fully execute it, it might practically happen that on July 1st they could not sail into any world port. On the other hand, the Ministry also through the management of navigation security and why it must regularly monitor developments in state port offices and county port administrations so that ports can be prepared clearly by July 1st and that this law would be fully incorporated and implemented in terms of ships in relation to companies and stood on the other side in relation to the security of the ports themselves. Here's Mr. President for now so much so later on.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9488	I thank the Secretary of State. Do the committee's rapporteurs want to? The Committee on Legislatives, President of the Committee Mr. Florian Boras, please be my guest.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9489	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. At its 8th session on 24 March, the Legislative Committee discussed the proposal for a law on the safety protection of commercial ships and ports opened for international transport. And such a bill of law is supported by the Legislative Committee and does not object to an urgent procedure. On a bill of law, the committee found I mean if I'm not mistaken for the 38 amendments. So by considering the proposal for this law, we actually tried to determine on the board how there was a proposal for a text that I would have said in a major conflict with the legal methodology, with legal technical and terminology rules and terminology in our legislation. And just the ones in general I'd say didn't fit into the uniqueness of our legal system. We claimed that it was actually a salad convention based on which this law is passed in Croatian very badly in the first day, and it was transformed as such into a regulation of the same name as this Law. And then, in talks with the international community, in particular the European Union, it was agreed that the regulation should be translated into law. Of course, as I would have said herei, it is a warning to the Committee on Legislative Affairs and the Government's Office of Law means that with more attention and more transparency they approach the making of a prose already in the stage of the draft and understanding the need to es this law and supporting the need for this legislation to be adopted by an urgent procedure, we have tried in 38 amendments I hope and succeed in my amendments to which I hope and accept, significantly correct this text and I would react to a text that is readable and applicable. Here, Mr. President, that would be a brief report from the committee. I won't read all the amendments, they're given in writing you can see them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9490	I thank the president of the Committee. The Maritime, Transport and Communications Committee, the rapporteur. No, I don't. The Committee on European Integration. I don't. Then we'll have a club debate. On behalf of the HD ClubFor the esteemed representative Zivko Nenadić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9491	Mr. President, proceeding to the vice president of my colleague and colleague. The safety of people and property today is a global problem on the rise is maritime transport, which is good but unfortunately, terrorism is also bad. And that's why we need to protect traffic both people, things and the environment. The former government has brought our legislation into line with international standards on this matter of security. And today, or these days, we should turn that regulation into a law. Thus, to create a legal basis for cooperation between the governmental authorities of local administrations, shipping companies and port authorities for preventive action in order to prevent possible disasters. That's what the Secretary of State said in detail. I won't repeat it. HDZ will support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9492	Thank you. It's the club of MPs I.D.S.A. Walter Poropat.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9493	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. At the beginning of this exhibition, I must say that due to the time narrow, we are already late to pass laws on the safety protection of merchant ships and ports open to international traffic. After a number of ragic events that have actually spent the track, nothing will already be the same as before 11 September 2001. The government of the Republic of Croatia has introduced a regulation on the safety protection of commercial ships and ports opened for international transport by taking over international obligations and the Convention last year. However, since the Convention is defined as an impeling period and the provisions of the Convention and of the Rules of Procedure shall apply from 1 July 2004. This proposal will practically translate the government's regulation into law, until that time, so up to 1. 7th of this year, all ports open to international transport and all ships covered by the international rules on the safety protection of ships and port protectors shall have carried out safety assessments and established security plans. And so we can be subject to review and certification. I would not even like to mention that the consequences of the delay in application would mean stopping Croatian ships, as well as the possibility of but also the inability to sail foreign ships into our ports. So I note that the work that needs to be done for checks and certificates is very much and our time is very short. So I.D.S. Club finds the adoption of this law necessary and will support the same. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9494	Thank you. It is the turn of the HSPa Club's respected representative, Tonci Tadic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9495	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Your Honor, Mr. Secretary of State. The HSPa Club is in a difficult doubt what to do with this law and we hold that it would be best given the whole series of amendments that have been submitted to simply accept the law in the first reading. And then access itself through a certain time to another law reading. It is unacceptable to pass a law of this kind with this number of most terrible procedural failures, and it is really unnecessary to accept this law by an urgent procedure because we already have in force a government regulation that regulates this area. So in the procedural sense, we are absolutely not late, because everyone who is obliged to coordinate their actions in ports and on ships with ISPS protocol can already do so under the government's regulation, and if we want to pass the law then it must be done really correctly following the strict ISPS protocol, so the protocol on the security of port facilities and ships, but also the law that corresponds to Croatian reality and Croatian reality. So first of all, the law continues on an ISPS protocol that speaks about the safety of merchant ships. However, it is actually a termology because in English under... sheep all ships that are not in the state service are considered as warships, either as public ships owned by the state, or as lists of ships that the state mobilizes at the moment of war effort. So it's not just about ships carrying cargo, it's about ships carrying passengers, and I think it's primarily necessary to ensure the safety of ships transporting passengers and passenger ports, and that there's actually the main point of gravity, so the gravity is actually given to it in the ISPS protocol. I read that protocol just like the others. It is really necessary for Croatia to adapt to this, because in this paranoia that is ruling globally after 11 September 2001, there is a real danger that Croatia is not harmonizing its ports from the direction of sea transport on the Adriatic and in general on the Mediterranean and in the world scales. So that port on the Adriatic which has so far been open to international traffic, and these are not only the ports Split and Zadar, i.e. Dubrovnik, Rijeka port, Sibenik port, Pula port etc. but these are all the ports on the islands on which the ferry from Italy docks when transporting foreign tourists. These are the ports of Starigrad on Hvar and Vela Luka and the ports of Lastovo and the ports of Vis and the port of Hvar. All these ports are actually ports for international traffic. And in all of them, we need to carry out this same procedure until 1.7. So in all of them there must be a special system of people who care for safety. We don't know how much paranoia will go in the international maritime organisation, if we're going to have a special anti-terrorist team at every port, but what's indicative is that each of these ports must have its own safety assessment, it must have a security officer, it must have a team that is conducting a defense against a security threat and that all of this must be from someone coordinated. Now who's it from? The ISPS protocol says it's about the state government and about... So some kind of port administration. [[You don't understand.]] We have this here that we have a very badly solved Law on seaports, it interferes, so the Ministry of Interior and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and port captains and port administrations are also mentioned. If it's a concessionaire for certain ports and we're not going to experience this concessionaire hiring a security firm, I'm not going to mention them here not to advertise them, which will then implement anti-terrorist protection measures. So it really doesn't make sense, and that's why we need to read and make a better law together. I believe that should be the role of the Coast Guard. For the Coast Guard to be engaged in this case and to carry out an assessment and to verify that a designated port or a specific ship is suitable for sailing in international waters and that it is indeed safe. In Italy, it's simpler. Why? Because there are port captains part of... part of the coast guard and in Italy it is unimaginable that the port captain is beaten by the ship's owner and his sailor because he banned them from sailing because they don't have enough crew numbers for the intended boat and the number of tourists who think they're going to drive what happened in a Dalmatian place, I won't mention what it is again. That's impossible in Italy. Now, if you have a system of port captains where you can beat the port captain, then such a system cannot guarantee security, it's perfectly clear and therefore a coast guard is necessary. What is, of course, important to mention when all protocols and supplements are read, so various annexes at the end of the ISPS protocol then it's actually about this whole system actually dealing with two typical crisis scenarios. One crisis scenario is that terrorists take the port, another crisis scenario is to take the ship and use the ship with all hostages as a platform to attack the port or other passenger ships. Whatever happened that we do not have any ports that are only for international traffic but it is also for domestic traffic, it is absolutely clear that what is stated here in Article 3, which is, of course, in the ISPS protocol, that everything that is written in this law, and in terms of safety, can always be transferred to all ports for domestic transport and to all ships in domestic transport. It is quite clear that one Jadrolinian or Sam's ferry occupied by terrorists can be dangerous for any other ferry that is on the line to our islands because it can crash, dive, sink in front of Split and shut down Split's port, etc. It is quite clear that in the event of a problem in one of our island ports for international traffic, we can have the same difficulty in domestic transport, because until terrorists are removed, domestic traffic is becoming difficult there. Of course, we need to talk about all this. There is no reason to sow panic or paranoia, but in Croatia it is to show itself as a safe country that has no problem with terrorist threats and that as a safe country we attract tourists who may be partially and terrified after the assassination in Madrid. This all together would be good when talking about ports open to domestic traffic extend to the marinas, as there may also be safety threats in the marinas. There is no difficulty in anyone thinking of attacking or intercepting the ferry, let's say they don't take the yacht from Zeljko Kerum, of course without Kerume on it and use that yacht to attack any of the ferry or any of the ships in international traffic. The thing is, every ship must have a security officer on it. That officer has to be licensed by someone, not clear enough from who. The ship must have a security procedure. Likewise, there must be a security officer at the port, the port must have a security procedure as it acts itself and as it relates to the ship on which the problem occurred. All this must be done quickly until 1.7 and in secret, and there must be clear procedures and accompanying rules that the Ministry of Maritime Affairs must make very quickly. We suspect that with this law, it can all be done quickly enough to take care of all the problems that arise from it, and the least of the problems, but not least, in everything I've already said today, to our naval officers who want to sail on international traffic ships, is picking up another ridge because they will have to have an even more safety barbed on board. The law is really fast, because, for example, Article 7 left out one part of the regulation, it starts from point 19, and so I keep it in mind, taking care of everything I said to be the best, so the HSP Club thinks it would be best to leave this law in the first reading, to accept what it is and that the Government takes care of all the amendments made by the Committee on Legislatives. I was very rarely when I saw in the House that some law was given as many as 38 amendments, by the Committee on Legislatives, judging that the Law was poorly written in a technical sense. That there's a whole series of doubts that this law is, of course, regulated in a second reading. There's just one more detail to add. This all applies naturally to mobile facilities in the territorial sea and protected by the ecological fishing zone. And we have to keep talking about a protected ecological fishing zone. It's good that it's also highlighted in the Law, and we mustn't give it up no matter what our neighbors tell us about it. Therefore, we support this Law with insistence that it be accepted in the first reading, but not as a final draft of the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9496	Thank you. SDP club, the esteemed representative of Antun Perusko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9497	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. I've prepared a more extensive discussion, I'll give it up. Time has elapsed, however, I want to say a few key things. It is, I agree with the predecessor, with Mr Tadic, about unusual practice to refer 38 amendments to a proposal. However, we are not in the SDP club for formal reasons to delay the adoption of one law, unless these amendments, which the government has sent, are sufficient, there is still the possibility of intervention. This law also concerns only one act that the existing Ivica Racan Government Regulation has passed at the end of last year has become an appropriate law and is in fact a harmonisation of national legislation with the legislation of the European Union. I would like to say that this proposal for a law with which the IMO went, the International Maritime Organisation is actually an organised response to the threats of organised terrorism that threatens the world and we as a member of the Anti-Terrorist Coalition and as a maritime country, the country of signatories to a number of international maritime conventions is obliged to implement those regulations in national legislation and therefore the SDP Club will always lead a principle policy, whether in opposition or in power, when it comes to the implementation of our country's commitments and when it comes to national interests, in principle. I repeat, whether we are in opposition or in power. As a result, I, on behalf of the SDP Club, could not agree to a previous debate on the prohibition of entry into Croatian ports and the coastal facilities of single-plate tankers, not to say political reasons, to bring regulations that do not comply with European Union regulations. Because if that were the case, if there were no safe passage institute prescribed by the International Convention on the Law of the Sea of 1982, then surely the European Union would have introduced into its legislation a provision prohibiting these and such tankers from entering the territorial sea of the European Union. However, the fact is that the European Union did not do so. The fact that the two countries, members of the European Union, have deviated from that principle, namely France and Spain, should not, for bad examples, be guided by us in the SDP, and this should also be taken into account the geographical and natural circumstances of the coastal sea of these two countries in relation to the Adriatic Sea. And that's why we couldn't agree to the amendments that talked about entering a restraining order just because of this safe passage institute. This is evidence of a principled policy when it comes to the state interests and this enforcement of our international obligations, and not to be mean, so let me say that we have led such a principled policy, for example, to the Hague tribunal. With what Mr. Tonci Tadic said in front of me, I agree. As regards ships in international transport, ISPS does not recognise any exception, but as regards the implementation of ISPS code at the ports of the Republic of Croatia, this should also be cautious when equiping ports with regulated equipment and devices, so that ports and port administrations are not subject to unnecessary high costs, as ISPS approves it. He's right about what Mr. Tonchi Tadic was saying. It should also count on those ports on the islands, etc. All these ports are open to international traffic and therefore it is necessary to take advantage of these opportunities that ISPS gives at the time, to go to the fitting of these ports gradually in line with the objective risk assessment that exists in each port. I have to say, unfortunately, there are no major dangers in Croatian ports for now, and there is no God knows how many dangers because, as you are witnesses, there is no traffic. So there's no ships, and there's no ships for what? Because our ports aren't connected to the back, they're not connected to the Central European swimming pool. We know that from our ports in history, burdens have moved all the seas of the world and that they have come to our ports, however, there is a need for connection. That's what Racan's government recognized, and that's why she went with a project to modernise Croatian railways because we don't have railways in our ports, we have ferns. Ferate from the Little Mist at a speed of 10, 20 km an hour and here, you have today's appeal from Rijeka Port. There's a burden in the Rijeka harbor, and the railroad says it can't translate it. As a result, the former Ivica Racana government recognised the development project, however, the existing government delayed the implementation of the modernisation of Croatian railways. And to finally bring the debate to an end, insisting on this, in the rationality of approach to a particular problem in line with international opportunities is a selective approach to good. It is good that the legislator provided for in Article 22(2) that a security officer, we call him so conditional, could carry out these tasks for several ports of a specific port basin because otherwise, in our old bad practice or good practice, they would be able to abuse it. Therefore, the SDP Club will vote independently on any observations which are partly and procedurally in favour of the adoption of this Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9498	Thank you. We've exhausted the debate with this. On behalf of the motionary, Secretary of State Branko Bačić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9499	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, ladies and gentlemen. I have a few things to say after this debate, which is that together on the Legislative Committee, we discussed the text of this law itself, and I agree that there are a lot of amendments, but first of all, these amendments refer to nomotechnical nature. In view of the fact that this Act is practically rewritten, and the regulation is almost in the most possible part based on the ISPS Code. It seems to me that perhaps someone else who has implemented this English text might have additional new amendments in the translation itself. So the fact that it could have been a happier translation, a happier solution. But this does not mean that the law itself is contradictory, because to this best evidence is the existing regulation. I can, on behalf of the Ministry with full responsibility, say that, on the basis of an existing regulation which has not been corrected in accordance with these amendments, the Office for Law is fully implementing the ISPS Code itself. and we at this time have no problems with the Ministry regarding neither making an assessment of the safety of a particular ship nor of a certain port, nor is there a problem with the Croatian Register of Ships, nor is the Ministry implementing the regulation itself. Therefore, the regulation is not contradictory, it is clear, that this law will also be clear, so it is not disputed to implement the law itself in terms of material law and material provisions. And the fact is that perhaps some happier solution and translation could be in itself and that there would then probably be fewer amendments to the very text of this law. But I repeat, you can still look at the amendment of the nomotechnical nature that refers to a different expression, a different approach to individual allegations and provisions per article. That's one thing. Another thing I also want to say. It's true, I don't think it's disputed that this law applies to and ports on islands and that smaller ports, larger ports, apply to both marinas and to shipyards. Therefore, this law applies primarily to ships, merchant ships, to ports open to international traffic, but also applies in the law itself and to ports for special purposes. And we, in that section, the Ministry is controlling whether special purposes are maintained and implemented in ports. We held a meeting yesterday with the directors of the port administration and a few days ago, and yesterday with the directors of the county administration, with the port captains, and this is exactly what I'm telling you about right now, we alerted them again to the fact that there could be a roadblock. and in that sense, and these ports that were mentioned on the islands, Vela Luka, Hvar, Korčula, Mali Losinj, etc. We are with the directors of certain port administrations that cover these ports in the county sense, we have met them about it, and according to their allegations, and what will be clearly later has to be certified, there will be no problem for this law to be implemented, so the more the day is honorable, or one person in each port administration will cover more ports, because in a certain way it would require too much costs, and on the other hand it would not be justified that for any smaller port open to international traffic practically has a person responsible for implementing this law. Therefore, to conclude, I do not see the essential reasons why this law is contradictory, because everything the ministry is doing now, it is working under the existing regulation and we do not have any problem in implementing the regulation itself, and I do not see any reason why, in the first place, a large number of amendments relating to the no-technical content of the law should then go to a second reading, but it should be accepted by me, because the best evidence is the regulation itself. Here, thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9500	Thank you. With this we have exhausted the debate for today, and the agenda for today. Continuation is tomorrow at 10 o'clock.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9501	Final draft law on the safety protection of commercial ships and ports opened for international transport, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 60. The draft law, the debate on the text of the law, is over. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Links and by the Committee on Law. The esteemed prisoner Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9502	Mr. President, on behalf of the HSP Club, we're looking for a break of 10 minutes because we can't believe that such a bad legal object is even put to the vote. We need to figure out what to do and how to do it.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9503	Dear Representative Zlatko Tomcic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9504	Thank you very much, Mr. President, if I can reduce the trouble of taking the same break for two clubs. So I would ask that what Ms. Ljubica Lalić asked for the Pension Insurance Act to get the right same break to use together with the HSP Club. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9505	Thank you, thank you very much. I'm setting a 10-minute break. Ladies and gentlemen, let's get back to work. Stanku was sought by the HSP's representative club and the HSS representative's club. I'd like an honorary representative of Peru Kovacevic on behalf of the HSP Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9507	Mr. President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Since the beginning of the HSP club has been calling this House, can't you hear it? Since the beginning of this assembly, it has been drawing attention to the Government of the Republic of Croatia to refer to the procedure for adopting final draft laws that have been legally incomplete. We have had many situations that the government is alone on its final draft laws containing two or three articles. After that, when we're sitting on the working bodies of this tall house... which means, she was making amendments, so if so, there have been cases of amendments being tabled in two articles with, three amendments or more situations. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] And we warned it specifically to the minister of justice, Secretary of State Palaric and others who, as representatives of the government, defended such... and instead, the government could not believe what kind of legal service the Ministry has, or in its Law Office, when we received the proposal for a law on the protection of commercial ships and ports opened for international traffic with the Final Bill. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] What has been done in this proposal, the final draft of the law, is visible that no one has read it. From the meaning of the facts when the translator translated conventions but the translator translated... very bad because of the fact that he obviously doesn't understand the professional expressions that are very important. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Afterwards, we know how the procedure went, it had to be discussed and at least be on the minister's college. Apparently, no one read it there either. After that, with the College of Ministers in order to come to the government and co-ordination they discuss and the Office for Law gives an opinion. Obviously, no one read it at the time. He's coming to a session of the government itself. Obviously, no one read it at the time. And that's what we got. We've got something that's impossible for the amendments to fix. It's impossible to fix with amendments. Here's Mr. Boras knows and the members of the Legislator's Committee, we all grabbed our heads when we saw what we got. That, that, that's hard to believe. I think that if a student wrote after graduation this part so that a legal provision could be introduced to take away his degree in law school, to take away his degree in law school. And so I appeal first and foremost to the President of the Parliament as a top lawyer, gentlemen, to Mat Arlovic, all of us fellow lawyers, Professor Ivo Josipovic, and all of you colleagues and colleagues stop this part, people will laugh at us. People will laugh at us for voting today. I've tried to make a simulation of the variant now, and nobody's gonna know what it's gonna cost when we say it. It's objectively speaking. Since we have a regulation that the former government has passed, which is in effect, it's not our fault. We've got one piece of order. Let's make this the first reading and bring it in a way that is appropriate, so we know why we vote. Now we don't know why we vote when we take the number of amendments and what's in the text and that's not it again. My colleague Boras spoke on behalf of the Legislative Committee, he normally chose words because he wouldn't, he didn't even know what to say. But this is really embarrassing, embarrassing, and I'm asking for it on behalf of the HSP Club to protect the legal profession, to protect the dignity of this high home. If that's how we make the rules, what will the professors of law school tell us? What will the students tell us? It is the Croatian Parliament that destroys the legal profession. I wouldn't talk about lecturing or anything else, but this, I don't think we can go over a bill like this, and so I suggest, reasonably, on behalf of the protection of the legal profession, the integrity of this high house to make this the first reading because of the fact that we have... Thank you very much. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9508	My colleagues and colleagues, when this proposal for a law has been incorporated and discussed before being discussed at the plenary session of the Assembly, the Legislative Committee has mainly established on the Legislative Committee that there is an inequality of legal terms from, in the proposal for legislation resulting from the non-compliance of the legal term, as provisions of the Solas Convention, provisions of the International Convention on Standards of Exercise, Authorisation and Keeping the Watch of Seamen and the International Code of Security of Management have been incorporated in the final text of the Law. The provisions of these conventions are therefore incorporated into the text of the proposal of this Act. The Legislative Committee then, together with the representatives of the ministries, brought about the unification of legal standards and legal expressions and norms and as a result of this joint work of experts from ministries and governments and the Legislative Committee were incorporated into the amendments of the Committee on Legislatives, and then we will discuss this with the amendments. If you insist on the proposal, the final draft of the law will return to the regular procedure so as to remove the urgency of the procedure, and I will therefore give the vote of the HSP Club proposal to return the final proposal of the law on the safety and protection of commercial ships and ports opened for international transport, which has already been adopted by the emergency procedure and the final debate to the first reading. Who's in favour of this proposal's conclusion? Thank you very much. He didn't get the necessary majority. I'm asking a respected representative, or you're going to do this point, and then we're going to do this one, yeah. We're going to discuss the amendments now. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Links and by the Committee on Law. Please Secretary of State Branko Bačić, Ministry of the Sea, Tourism, Transport and Development. We go first to the amendments of the Legislative Committee. Amendment number, please? And you've already prepared yourself before for the sea? All right. Then amend the Maritime, Transport and Communications Committee. Amendment number one.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9509	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9510	Thank you. It becomes an integral part of the Law. Amendment number 2.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9511	It's accepted with the correction. The Committee has proposed an amendment to paragraph 5, Article 7 and it is, in fact, relevant to the amendment of paragraph 4, Article 7.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9512	I'm sorry I didn't.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9513	This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Committee has made an amendment by mistake. This part refers to paragraph 4 of Article 7.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9514	So it's pure nomotechnics. Then it becomes an integral part of the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9515	Yeah.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9516	Amendment 3.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9517	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9518	Thank you. It's part of the law. Amendment 4.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9519	It is not accepted because it has been accepted by Amendment 10 of the Legislative Committee which I will talk about later.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9520	We must vote because there is no representative of the authorised rapporteur of the Maritime, Transport and Communications Committee. Who is this, for this amendment that the Government says has been incorporated into the amendment of the Legislative Committee? Thank you. He's not accepted. Amendment 5.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9521	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9522	Thank you. It's becoming a satellite part of the law. Amendment 6.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9523	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9524	Thank you. It's part of the law. Amendment 7.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9525	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9526	It becomes an integral part of the law. And Amendment 8?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9527	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9528	Thank you. It becomes an integral part of the law. We're going to the amendments to the Legislative Committee. Can you tell?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9529	I can, if I can. The Government therefore accepts the amendments by the fact that the only thing that accepts the amendment number 5 is, in addition to the amendment relating to Article 6(3), because the same amendment has been proposed by the Maritime Committee, so it has already been accepted and therefore concerns that, instead of administration and maritime law, it states: “the competent shipping safety authority”. So we accept only what it is, so it is already regulated by the previous adoption of the amendments to the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Communications.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9530	President of the Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9531	Well, basically the amendment has been accepted, I agree.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9532	Otherwise you're Mr. Secretary of State accept 37 amendments to the Legislative Committee we hope to have?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9533	Agreement between the Ministry and
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9534	Yes, and what the esteemed representative Pero Kovacevic pointed to those expressions.. [[Intruder: Yes.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9535	If only I could, if I could add something else, namely this Law came from a regulation that the Government had adopted earlier, and that regulation is not absolutely contradictory because the Ministry, in accordance with this Regulation, is still in force to carry out all activities that commercial ships and ports open to international transport so as not to block on the one hand commercial ships and on the other hand ports open to international public transport on 1 July. Therefore, we at the Ministry accept that the law actually prescribed by the regulation could have been made in a nomotechnical part of a better quality but in that part of materially it is fully implemented and the Ministry exercises the design and assessment of security protection plans and plans of the port and, on the other hand, the Croatian Register of Ships in accordance with the existing regulation and now by this law, if this House adopts it, then, practically, the Croatian Register of Ships enables Croatia's commercial ships to be able, even after 1 July, when this Law enters into force, to enter into foreign ports open for international transport. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-01-0.u9536	I thank the Secretary of State. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? I find that, with 92 votes for, 12 against the adoption of the Law on the Protection of Commercial Ships and Ports opened for international transport in the text, as proposed by the Proposer, together with the amendments adopted, in accordance with the proposal of the Committee on Legislatives. I am voting on the following conclusion: The professional service of the Croatian Parliament is authorised to edit the text of this Law before its publication in the National Journal. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? I find it unanimous with 104 votes for the proposed conclusion. We would now only have a brief break on some elections and appointments and I would ask the chairman of the Branimir Glavas Committee to take the floor and explain the proposals.
