ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20015	... the social protection system in accordance with European standards and in such a way as to weigh matters relating to the protection of families, children, minors leave in the jurisdiction of regular courts, as is common in European countries that are in this part of our role model. [[speaks later turned on, can't be heard]] However, this is a serious process, and this was discussed yesterday, and it is necessary to prepare courts for them to take on such important tasks and to enable the new social protection system to function. In the transitional provisions of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Designation and Part-Corruption of Ministrys, we have extended the transition of part of the jobs concerning the protection of the family from the Ministry of Health and Social Care to the Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity on 30 September 2004, because we were convinced that by that date the courts would be able to take over jobs and that the new system would be able to function from 1 October 2004. Unfortunately, that wasn't possible. Therefore, this law as a technical follow-up to the law, a law that you discussed yesterday on the delay of the application of certain provisions of the Family Law, must be adopted by an urgent procedure so that a new system can be established in a thorough and quality manner and that our regular courts are qualified to apply the new social protection system in accordance with European standards. We suggest you pass this law by emergency procedure, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20016	Do the committee's rapporteurs want a word? Chairman of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and Political System, Mr. Bosnjakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20017	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. The Committee has discussed this law on the basis of its competence as set out in Article 57. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament as a parent working body. We propose that the proposal for a proposal be adopted and the proposed law adopted by an urgent procedure. In the debate, the Committee supported law enforcement which reduced the number of central authorities of the State Administration. He also supported the proposal to transfer part of the business to the Ministry of Family, Defence and intergenerational solidarity, while transferring competences in certain procedures to municipal courts. However, it is expressed the view that the possibility of the central authorities of the State administration to set realistic deadlines for the implementation of these laws is established when the law is passed and, in accordance with the possibilities of the central authorities of the State administration. After discussing most votes 5 for and 3 abstentions we propose to the Croatian Parliament to pass this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20018	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the SDP Club, Honored Representative Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20019	Thank you, Mr. President, the honourable representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. The SDP Club will not support this proposal for a law amending the Law on Construction and the Part-Corruption of the Central Authorities of the State Administration. And for the following reasons. First of all, at the beginning of its term of office, it was something that was in favour and that was welcomed by citizens with the enthusiasm that the number of ministries had decreased. However, it is now clear that this is why no organisational conditions were created, so the preconditions for this reduction could occur. But this effect, therefore, is now being broken by everyone’s head, and most of all by the users. We have already indicated after a few months that users in various ministries do not know until then which ministry they will address, and when they find out, the administrations within the ministries themselves do not even know which ministry they fall under. So it's been eight months now and it's been time for these jobs to be put under the Ministry of Health, under the Ministry of the Family, the defenders and intergenerational solidarity. Because it's purely technical business. It's not done. Now you're looking for a delay. Unfortunately, this is the call "start Croatia" every little bit when it comes to essential laws, then these laws contain one possible two articles, delaying, delaying. So it's not good to stop processes, especially these reform processes in the administration. Because they also facilitate refoming operations in other areas and sectors, for example in the judiciary. It is now called that the Ministry of Justice, in particular not even that, but that the courts are not ready, they will never, in themselves, be ready unless the executive authority, and we, as a legislative authority, do our part of the work. It's an extensive part of the job that needs to be kept working, but it looks like these processes have been stopped. Zjape empty buildings, which the former government has provided just for the Ministry of Justice, or not, but for its users for the users of the courts. By the end of this year, it was now planned to rebuild the building, to employ new judges, and not only these jobs concerning child protection, so the status of children to solve themselves in such a way, but also all those other problems. So I say it very incorrectly now to call it that the courts themselves are not ready when the administration has not done its part of the job. It would be very interesting here to hear from the promoters what has been done during this eight-month period. Well, then maybe we'll figure it out, wait, wait, wait, let's support this law in that it's necessary, that these necessary jobs are done. But that's not the case. Here's yesterday we had a chance to hear and it's a wonder why the debate on the bill on amendments to the Family Law was not united, so we discussed last night, so maybe the public is not even aware of that, that the application of that law is delayed. The committees were also told by independent experts who are outside board members that we are perpetuating and specifically warning the legislative authority that we are persecuting the anti-constitutional state. The Constitutional Court would be interesting to hear here, and surely the Constitutional Court is following closely and monitoring what is happening with the Constitutional Court's decision based on the Convention, the European Convention on the Protection of Human Rights, where the Constitutional Court told us by saying that exactly the issues of child protection have a fall under total jurisdiction, and the Administrative Court which oversees the legality of the work of the State Administration body is not a court of full jurisdiction. And that's what we have nothing to discuss here, whether welfare centres are teamed up enough, professional enough to trust them, or whether they're still doing these jobs when I say it again, I say it with the saying of the Constitutional Court. And that decision has to apply. Warning, yesterday was debated here and it was a top argument and it is good that the legislative authority also listens to what the representative is saying, and the Supreme Representative of the Judicial Authority has been here often calling for a letter sent by Supreme Court President Ivica Crnic to the Prime Minister, which warns him that they are not court teams, that material conditions are not created, that neither courts are filled with allowed or approved vacancy and let alone a new increase. Here it is now justified that the process of appointing judges takes a long time. The truth lasts long, but what happens to us. A recent case has occurred that the Justice Department has just informed the State Judicial Council of its choice to cancel the ad because there is no means for judicial officials in a specific case. Well, then how can you come out here with us suggesting and here you're mistaken that these actions are ongoing. True, some are ongoing, and that is true but not in that scope that must follow an adequate filling. What about the material improvements because one is simply tied to the other. If the necessary means are provided and you simply in particular in the burning problem, the most intense problem of the judiciary is right in the City of Zagreb where also representatives of the judicial authority have repeatedly indicated that they do not have the physical setting of judges. We were here as the SDP Club proposed additional funds especially for the completion of the adaptation of these buildings that have been secured over the past years. It was rejected and it wasn't some big asset and we'd really start to solve it. Yeah, this has everything to do with it because it connects to each other. What is in particular, here is what has been done for these eight months on this issue that could possibly take a long time and there are some justifications, and whether in this direction at all, the steps that have been taken, this is on the one hand a question but here as regards this concrete proposal of the law amending the Law on the establishment of the central authorities of the state administration, there is absolutely no excuse that one administration from the former ministry no longer exists under the Ministry of Family, Defence and intergenerational solidarity. Once again, it is very irresponsible to complain that the courts are and to extract that the courts are overloaded. That's absolutely correct, but then what we do is relieve them. We have recently heard that it will not apply, in public, I would like the voice of the motion to arrive from the government that it is not so, that the discharge of courts will be carried out on the basis of amendments to the executive law and that the whole series will be delayed because the largest number of these deficits is just land-booked but also executive cases will be transferred to public records rather than even be delayed and there will be absolutely no funds, at least no funds from the state budget and all of this is related to this issue and adequate functioning, both judicial and judicial authorities. However, this did not happen and on the other hand with the bombing announcements of the Interest Law, where the government made a pompous appearance that would end up with interest rates, which is certainly welcome, but that is one aspect of the problem. It also raised the power of judgment and said what it means is that citizens in most cases were not debtors but creditors who are asking the state, that with not here, thousands of cases such as these family nature and the problems which are now justified that the courts cannot absorb it, and one move of feathers, we put on them the burden of the future eight hundred thousand cases because so many of the possible powers that arise, which can claim their right in court under that law. And the courts talked about it publicly. So, now this meddling with this letter is nothing but an excuse because in this direction, what's the content of the problem is that we're deafening ourselves, we're pretending to be deaf, dumb and blind and this part of the problem that was meant to be done by the state administration, which was supposed to be done by the government isn't done. So neither this technical job nor the technical job might be just to change the maybe plate so that the name that the ministry now belongs to would be the social care centres themselves, and that would be enough and there wouldn't be a problem with the delay of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20020	Thank you. On behalf of the HSP Club, respected representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20021	Dear Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues, dear Secretary of State! On behalf of the HSP Club, again, I must warn about our situation in the functioning of the rule of law on the one hand and on the other hand that we are obliged in this Croatian Assembly to protect the dignity or dignity of the legal profession because what we receive from the Government in this composition is no longer legally possible. Every time we get it, yesterday we were talking about that legislative proposal on heat energy that it was about copying a directive, but it was literally cheating on customers, on the burden of Croatian citizens to raise prices and all other things, and in this case it wasn't, even though this law on the establishment of central government bodies should be the main law for the PZE to place the PZE mark on all of us, and we will bring Croatian citizens into a situation if it continues at this rate to "coordinate" Croatia's legislation with EU legislation that no one will be able to manage it anymore. But nobody will be able to do it anymore because this way we will directly, in such a way, endanger the functioning of the rule of law and endanger what is most important to the legal certainty of Croatian citizens. This HSP expert team is at the disposal of the Government, we have long said that we are at our disposal because this time we have tried to fix with two amendments to the bill which also has two articles, with the second article being the one when the law comes into force and today we will see further what the proposals of the laws that go again in the urgent procedure to be copied and cannot be copied. That's the worst thing. In order for something to be copied to be copied, it is necessary to be able to copy. The government likes to give a lecture to the opposition when it comes to legislative proposals, so often it gives a lecture to the opposition that it cannot change the transitional and final provisions and that is where we righters agree. The transitional and final provisions could not essentially be changed but what is not allowed for us or for us is allowed to be allowed to the Government. We talked about this law in the third month when the government itself went on to amend and supplement the transitional and final provisions, our proposal was accepted, it went with the amendment, but now it's done the same thing. Yesterday it was the Family Law, but now as it was done, it's another proof of scandal. Look, the law with changes and supplements is the whole thing, right? We first passed a law called the Law establishing ministries and state administrations in December of last year, which is the National Journal of 199, and then we changed that law in the third month, that is, March of this year, and it was published in People's newspaper number 30. So, for me as a lawyer or I'm gonna have to go back to law school or somebody else, that law has two wholes. Here, Mr. Zubović he already knows as though he's a dentist that... Better than me, and that's fine. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So let me take away my diploma, let him go back! I don't mind. So the law represents a legal whole. That's two, two "The People's News" Act, 99/03. And 30/04, right? It has always been legal for me and for all the lawyers that exist. And now, the name of the law has been changed and it is correct to say that the final proposal for a law amending the Law on the Construction and Part-Corruption of the Central Authorities of the State Administration is. But where miracles are said in the first article, it says, in the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Construction and the Part-Corruption of the Central Authorities of the State Administration, but only quote "The National Journal" No. 30 from this year and they don't quote. So if such a name were to be left, then the name of the Law would have to be the Law on Amendments to Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Construction and Part-Corruption of Labour. That's what happens when you go wrong, you can't get on the right path, come out like this. Now, we rightists suggest here, we normally save this situation, we can't even regulate it legally, and we've proposed two amendments. But I think the first amendment is important here. Our first amendment is what the Croatian defenders are looking for. What their families are looking for, what the families of the dead Croatian defenders are looking for, is that the name of the ministry is not to be the Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity but rather to be the name of the ministry, the Ministry of Croatian Defence, the family and intergenerational solidarity. Why? It's very simple because the Croatian defenders stand behind us, they all protest openly. And we know for a fact that it is the fundamental law, the fundamental law is the Law on the Croatian Defence. So why does it bother you that there are no Croatian defenders in the name of the ministry? Are these some kind of games we don't know about? Is that some kind of agreement? But we keep pointing out, the government tells us, so why don't you suggest?- I'm sorry. Well, here, we've proposed an amendment now and we're saving the situation. Therefore, we must make sure that we are not allowed to be a voting machine here, we must keep in mind where these unquality laws will lead us and what legal security of Croatian citizens will be. So let's make assistance to the government, let's also get involved from other parties in the HSP expert team that what comes in the interest of Croatian citizens and not that I have to be ashamed as a lawyer that Mr. Zubovic tells me it's great. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20022	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS Club, PGS's respected representative Nikola Vuljanic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20023	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. This is a short bill, two three lines of everything. And it's a shame to actually spend 20 minutes of valuable time as Parliamentarians. 150 MPs per 20 minutes 3000 minutes, 50 hours, so one working week of good working overtime. But on the other hand, and such a brief Law speaks very clearly of how the executive government looks at this House. This House serves almost exclusively and here this is confirmed as a service for services of short-term political interests. They are voted in spite of the warning of pointlessly short deadlines that are repeatedly extended after which the meaning of the Law is actually lost. Let's look at the pace, the first six months extension, the second 8, 9, the third 15, the fourth one will be, what, by the end of the term, right?- I'm sorry. Is it fairer to say, we can't do it or do it even better we don't know how to do it?- I'm sorry. For exceeding the deadlines that, in fact, doesn't explain themselves in the reasoning of the law at all, no one's to blame. It's not even the pronoun who suggested what he proposed, it's not the one who chose the job, who should have respected those deadlines and done something. Until the location of the place and the moment or persons and persons responsible for such moves and those responsible for the fact that the deadlines voted in this House were not respected until someone submitted some kind of convention about it, we will have these situations happening to us. Accordingly, the HNS Club, the PGS, cannot support such practice or this way of passing the Law and the Club will oppose it. Floscule of the legal vacuum that would arise if not adopted by this law are, and well not only floscule, it's true, it comes to a legal vacuum. However, this concerns us, of course, but no one is particularly concerned that we are already in the constitutional vacuum for a long time. What we are in a situation that is contrary to all European conventions that the authorities of the administration decide on the fate of the child, which excludes the authority of the judicial authorities everywhere in the civilized world. So it's a fundamental question to decide where the mistake is. Whether the error was made at the time of the adoption of the Law, so at the time of the vote of impossible deadlines, or the error in implementation, therefore, in incompetence, negligence, unhappiness, whatever the authorities, the state authorities that were to implement it. If it is a mistake in the decision, in the way we make a decision and at the moment of making a decision, this may teach us something sense, it is the only benefit of such a proposal that the next time the law comes to the vote that will have an integrated deadline in which we suspect and where it is in this situation that we know perfectly and clearly that it cannot be implemented. So, which we suspect, so that law works then we won't vote. If we are not sure, well there are competent people we are now calling upon, such as Mr. Ivica Crnic, who can evaluate things with perhaps more experience, more brains and more knowledge than the promoter. So, if the promoter is incompetent to evaluate it the way it should, then let him ask smart people. There are people who know. Today, calling on Mr. Ivica Crnic's opinion is at least untasteful. Why didn't anyone ask him anything when that law was passed? On the other hand, if it's a mistake in the implementation I personally don't see what it was so difficult, which is, where the big problem was that things couldn't be implemented, but if there's been a mistake in the implementation then this House and the authorities of the state should know and assess who made the mistake, because it should carry out the consequences. The sentence which particularly distracted me in the explanation of Mr. Secretary of State is a sentence, we were convinced that we would be able to honor that deadline. No one could be convinced that in 4, 5 or 6 months, they would succeed as they are today. Today we are no longer convinced that in a year and a half we will be able to achieve all the intensities of this Law. So, the HNS Club, the PGS, will vote against this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20024	I'd like to thank the esteemed representative. On behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Club, respected representative Ivanka Roksandic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20025	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues! In the beginning, I must point out that the Croatian Democratic Community Club will support the proposal for this law just as it was supported yesterday in the debate by the Proposal for a Law on Family Law Amendments. The proposal for this law concerns the amendment of Article 26 of the Law and provides for a deadline for taking over part of the tasks of the centre which do not go to the jurisdiction of the courts but to the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity. If we recall yesterday's debate, which was proposed by the Law amending the Family Law, that the taking over of matters related to the handling of family matters should be considered. those matters relating to special protection in families in which mutual relations are violated, the protection of children whose parents live separately, the protection of children who are not cared about, the adoption, the protection of children with behavioural disorders and children and adults under care, who were due to be taken over by the courts until 30 September of this year to postpone until 31 December 2005, and all due to today's several times the request of courts and for reasons of unprepared courts to carry out these tasks, i.e. Yes, no, more so because of the insufficient number of judges and professional associates who would do the mentioned jobs because of the still large number of pending cases, and today pointed out here cases in courts. We believe that partial takeover and transfer only part of these jobs to the Ministry of the Family, the defenders and intergenerational solidarity could lead to a disturbance in the functioning of the system. My colleague Anticevic said that people don't know who, where and when to turn to. We believe that just this kind of partial takeover of jobs would also cause difficulties in the work of the welfare center. From what has already been said today, we support yesterday the proposal to amend Article 26 and this law and to have the deadline for taking over this part of the ministry by 31 December 2005 and with the date of 1 January 2006.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20026	I thank the honourable representative. We're moving on to an individual debate. It's the honorary representative of Stazic's turn.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20027	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues! The law is small, two articles. First, the application is delayed, the second law enters into force. That's what happened yesterday with the Family Law, the same case. In general, there is the impression that this government is acting with a delay. The restructuring of railways is delayed, the VAT reduction is delayed. Yesterday, the application of the Family Law is delayed. Today, the application of provisions related to the handling of family matters that regular courts were due to begin on September 30th is delayed. So now how does it come to these delays? First of all, who set the deadline for it to be by the end of September? That deadline was proposed by this government in April of the month. It's not some inherited deadline from the incompetent former Racan government. You set yourself a deadline to do something by September 30th. So what now? You came in September, you need to apply the law, and you're not able to do that. And why is that? You say the courts aren't ready. And who's to blame that the courts aren't ready? Is it this Parliament's fault? Is it the citizens' fault? Are the families to whom this Law applies? Or is it the government's gentlemen's fault? Why didn't you team up the courts? So what did you do from April to September? You weren't doing anything. You've done nothing about this law. And now you come before Parliament and say, "We are not ready." In the light of this law you write, it says: “After a concrete insight into the situation”, you realize that you will not be able to do something. What does that mean that in April you had no concrete insight into the situation when you suggested it? It's just that you've just made a concrete insight into the situation and you've seen that you can't do what you've given yourself. Dear government gentlemen, that's very unserious. That's very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, Now it's not just the courts that are unprepared, it's the Ministry of the Family that's unprepared. Well, it's a little easier to find the guilty one. Well, it's clear who's to blame that the Ministry can't take the responsibility it's legally accepted. So let it be settled within yourselves, and go out to the public, and say, "These ministers are no good; the Presidents of the courts are no good, let us replace them." And not like we're passing laws here, and then we're prolonging their application. Because this isn't the first case, and probably not the last one. So, I think, in conclusion, that this law and that of yesterday's Family, they have a common name. These are laws that testify to the government's inability to do its job. And in that sense, it should vote for these laws as a confirmation of that same incompetence. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20028	I'd like to thank the esteemed representative. It is up to the honourable representative Drazen Bosnjakovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20029	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, so we really cannot be satisfied when we see laws being passed that delay the application of some of the solutions that we have previously set. However, here I must say that we must accept one fact as a reality that our courts are not prepared to take over certain things from the authority of the welfare center. It's true and it's not disputed that our government hasn't prepared these courts in eight months. However, it is equally uncontestable that these courts were not prepared even during that period before to take over these cases. Because just as we today claim that on a very dubious constitutional jurisdiction of the welfare center in solving these matters, it has been questionable and before means these eight months. But here I think we can still say with a clear conscience that, compared to the judiciary, we've done this eight months a lot. In these 8 months, we have passed a very important law in relation to the judiciary, which is the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Courts, where we have adopted a very important measure, which is that those courts that are meant to be cumbersome with cases, that the President of the Supreme Court may give part of these cases a solution to the courts that have fewer cases. And what's even more important is that it works today. The President of the Supreme Court, with his solution to many cases of the County Court in Zagreb, has deployed to courts in Koprivnica, Čakovec and other courts and today we have that those cases which were condemned by the former system, according to the former law, to wait for years for their resolution, are now resolved in courts which are smaller but which are more efficient. And that is a very important measure to me, and we can really say that we have taken such a measure and done a great deal. We also brought some changes in the land-book process that people also feel because the process of bookkeeping, ownership rights and other rights in land books is going really faster. So on the other hand, I think we can really say that we've done a lot in the area of the judiciary so far, and if we continue with these kind of measures in the judiciary, I think there are a lot of better days going for the judiciary. And that's why I'm going to support this law, I say I'm not too happy because we're extending the deadline, but that's at this point our reality. We all know that the judiciary is covered with cases, we all know that we need to take measures and I think that we've taken measures in these eight months and that these laws that I've been talking about we've actually passed them with a pretty high consensus and we've all been there for them. There were also words that we didn't ask the judiciary in some things about interest and that, but I don't think that's part of the subject today, so I wouldn't want to talk about it, but I'm also going to mention that this is a good measure of justice, because we all know what kind of interest we had before the adoption of this interest law with the principal 1 kuna, for how many years we don't know how long the total debt was. And we also passed that law with one high consensus. And that's why I'm going to support this law, and I hope that in these years, there are really going to be assumptions that the courts accept these items, too, because we're actually going to do some more things, because our courts are if we look at them a little bit buried. Another letter came to our Committee on the Constitution and Rules of Procedure and the political system, from the President of the Supreme Court, which is the election. We all know that our judges are involved in the elections and that they are holding elections, and we will have presidential elections, we will have local elections, and it is a job of several months in which judges participate. So, at the time they're working in the elections, I can't work in my courtrooms. So we will likely be forced to take some action in the future. I believe that the problems of the judiciary will be solved in one good way as we have begun, and this is personally truly sorry, but I think that in these years we will prepare the courts so that these cases can be taken over. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20030	I'd like to thank the esteemed representative. It's time for the Honorable MP Opacic. ... I'm sorry, I made a note. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Replica, the esteemed representative of the Korenika.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20031	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. It's just fascinating how the majority coalition is trying to justify a delay in the application of this law, and I must say that the claim that the courts are not prepared stands, only gentlemen, my dear, what have you done all this time? Apparently, the government and all those who were supposed to participate in the court’s preparations went on a long vacation, since it was very appropriate for them. I think it's worth saying here that "good gold excuse" is worth it. And as for the election, when the fact comes, that a good part of the judges will work in the election process and election procedure, but dear fellow, they won't do it all the time. There will be a few days before and a few days after the election, and I'm afraid that one part of the excuse, and for which they are quite well paid, is welcome that they may not be doing their normal procedures, because the preparations of the election may work an hour straight in contact with the election committees, but it can't possibly be an excuse for everything they need to do, and one part of the judges unfortunately doesn't.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20032	Thank you. Replica response, respected representative Bosnjakovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20033	Well, look, pal, I haven't questioned at all that in these eight months, the courts aren't prepared to take these items out of the table, but it's also the fact that they weren't prepared even in that period eight months ago, that what I said was in this perhaps unconstitutional sphere in solving these issues, perhaps from the 90th and beyond, but it's not just us that we're dealing with these issues, you have in Sweden, the judgments of the international court regarding Sweden, where the same decision is made in the administrative bodies. And as for the election, I have to tell you that you're wrong, because it's not an hour's work a day, you probably weren't in election committees, it's a lot more work than that hour's work a day. And that's the thing about international standards, you know. It's not just judges doing it outside, other experts are doing it, and that's how the courts are unloading. We'll have to follow that for sure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20034	Thank you. The word has a respected representative, Milanka Opačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20035	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. Under this law, I think it's very clear that the reconstruction of the ministry has not gotten the less and more effective government, we've only got it on paper. Unfortunately, in reality, we got by the number of employees of a much larger government than she was before. Unfortunately, and by efficiency we got a no less, more effective and more efficient government, we got a government that is in some, or rather, in most of its resors actually much less functioning than it is so far. The biggest damage, which we warned about when the law was passed quite quickly in order to present to the Croatian public that HDZ would make a smaller government and reduce the number of ministries, went very quickly into the cleavage of some systems and we have warned here that it was very dangerous to split the social system into two ministries, the Ministry of Health and Social Care and the Ministry of the Family. The social system is a very large and very sensitive system because it deals with living people, deals with our problems in the family, deals with children's problems, so a very sensitive problem, and this system is now very difficult. The fact that this division among the ministries is bad is also the data in the implementation of the state budget in which it is, for example, It is evident that the Ministry of Family and Intergenerational Solidarity is actually a single ministry that does not exist in these first 8 months because the Family Administration spent on some items 0 kuna and on some items a maximum of 17.65%. So, it's the Family Administration that hasn't done anything, not a single programme has been implemented in the past 8 months, and the Intergenerational Solidarity Authority has a government budget for the first 6 months of 0.30%. 0,30%. So, for the first eight months, nothing was done. The non-existent administration, the non-existent ministry, in these two segments that I said: family and intergenerational solidarity. The fact that such a division between the two ministries brought bad social care is also the fact that in the past budget rebalancing, some 3 or 4 months ago, 11 welfare centres were seized and funds were seized for 7 centres and homes for rehabilitation and children's accommodation. Every one of you in your place who went to the welfare center, I think it's very few of those centers where people work in good conditions. It's more or less a sneaky thing, and people are really doing it in very difficult conditions, and there are more and more people looking for help in welfare centres, and the number of employees remains the same. Therefore, their burden is very high. That's why it can't stand a claim that can be heard here earlier, which is that a solution like this would, therefore, where a part of the social care center business would be transferred to family departments, so that it would be kind of a bad situation for welfare centres. One part of the job would be to relieve these people, one part alone, because then I'm going to say what we predicted and without which they won't even be able to function in this model that we're forced to do primarily by the Constitutional Court's decision. So this, this law that we're talking about here today, and that was talked about yesterday when the Family Law was changed. Therefore, it is the Constitutional Court's decision to respect the Convention on Human Rights and to which it is no longer possible to decide certain status matters in the family, so at the level of the Centre for Social Care, it must move to the jurisdiction of the courts. For the second time, therefore, said my colleague Stazic, it is not a deadline that someone else has set for this government. The HDZ government set itself a deadline and Minister Jadranka Kosor when she defended for the first time in the 4th month to postpone this deadline for the establishment of family departments, she said it would be bad if such a one postponement took place in September. This could mean that the minister was somewhere suggesting that this law would not be implemented and that in September, as we now have, we would have another amendment to the law that we would extend to form family departments. What is the future of Croatia are family courts. We do not have the resources in Croatia today to build new buildings for family courts, nor do we have enough personnel to do so. However, family courts are something we will have to go towards, but the transitional solution we can and must make are family departments in existing courts. The law says there are no experts. It's just not true. He's got an expert. First of all, there are judges who judge family disputes. You should, therefore, only put those judges now to judge exclusively in family dispute departments. It needs to be done, of course, and further education. Namely, in courts as well as any other activity education must be life-long, as long as you work, you need to learn something new and you need education. If they were to think of experts who must take part in a decision in court, they are also wrong because they must and can be used by the Social Care Centre. It's about people who work in centres, so mental health professionals or social workers or any other kind of people who deal with family problems in centres. People who, in the end, begin to meet a family that has the most information about the family and about a particular problem of children whose dispute will be in court. Therefore, no judge will be able to decide without them, without their support and without their knowledge. Therefore, there are experts from both the judges and from these other lines. Therefore, the question is only our good will. I agree that perhaps with one finding, which is that all major systems and so the judiciary are going on a less-resistance line. I know that there have been very strong resistances, and yet unfortunately there are them in the implementation of the Law on the Prevention of Family Violence, where many courts have resisted that part of them coming into their jurisdiction, to deal with it according to a special law. Of course, however, there are a number of courts that do so neatly. I think it may also be about one, one line of less resistance where such a large system such as the Croatian judiciary resists some change in their ranks. However, the Government of the Republic of Croatia is here to protect the rights of citizens, the courts are here not for themselves but for the benefit of the citizens. Therefore, they must also be run and this Law must be implemented. The next delay can no longer be put up with. We are now forced to this delay, for it we will have to vote otherwise there would be very large disorders indeed in the system when this would not be left somewhere in the status quo. But in any case, this condition cannot be tolerated further, something must be done. So, both experts and decisions, therefore, this Parliament is to form a family department. That's what we should go for. That's enough, I mean, stories and declarative behavior. It is high time for something to start working and for these family courts to be formed and to begin to determine what is rightfully theirs.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20036	Thank you. We have two corrections to an incorrect quote. Dear Representative Babic-Petricevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20037	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. It's not true, fellow Opačić, that this government is not effective. This government is effective in its executions, and fewer promises such as the coalition government. You promised 200 thousand jobs to a new direction and, thank God, the Croatian people re-elected this government and stopped that direction that was very wrong. And that's not even the first case that you're telling the truth. You confirmed that when you were a guest at ATV Split. Like the host, so are you. If you're going to continue the controversy with me, we can move on.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20038	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative byte.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20039	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. In a number of incorrect allegations, I'd correct those that my colleagues said we'd gotten a government that worked worse. Unfortunately, regarding this Law on the Construction and Circular of the Central Authorities of the State Administration, it is forgotten and that in that part it is incorrect, too, that it is related to the Family Law adopted on 14 July 2003 and whose application was to be applied on 22 January 2004. That Mr. Crnić sent a letter saying that the courts are not teamed up, that they do not have adequate human and material conditions, and I am surprised that colleagues are forgetting and are trying to free themselves of responsibility over the past four years. And Mrs. Anticevic, who spoke on behalf of the SDP Club, also forgot that she was a minister in that part...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20040	Thank you, thank you. You cannot correct the incorrect quote of the distinguished representative Antičević. It's our guest, Ivo Banac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20041	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. I had no intention of commenting on this Law because it was actually nothing but a typical improvisation and tampering. And it actually deserves only pity on the state in which this country is located. In the administration of your own. However, I am caused by the incredible comments that have fallen here, which show that the good part of this House does not want to be a subject but is at peace with this situation. We all know, it's said. So you know what? We don't all know. We don't know that this has to be like this. We don't know that we have to deal with one of these brown situations. I don't think the courts' congestion, the question of circumstances, etc., is any argument. This House must become a subject and ask the question why our administration is what it is, why our courts are who they are. Until we do it, we simply second one loop that was designed to do almost nothing from October 30th of this year to the end of next year this Parliament will not be a subject. Please be a little responsible for those who chose you and don't repeat "we know." We can't know.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20042	Thank you. It is up to the respected representative Zeljka Antunovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20043	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues. In these eight and a half months of the term of office of this Parliament and the mandate of the Government, we have met four times with different amendments, i.e. amendments and additions to laws that regulate or define the structure and work of administrative organisations. We have warned very well at first several times that such an approach to the reorganisation of the State Administration calling for reorganisation is bad, irresponsible and that it will not result in what the Government has always given us in reason, which is that the State Administration will be more efficient, that the costs will be lower, that there will be fewer officials, that it will all work better for the benefit of the citizens. We knew it wasn't possible. That things in such a large, complex, tromic system cannot be changed only by political decisions that are not based on some kind of analysis and that will not be conducted over time and into continuity. And what's happening is exactly what we did in January, it seems to me, in December, at the first session of the Parliament, we warned. The reorganisation we are constantly meeting, including through these laws, is actually delaying the application of some of the reorganisations that have been so strongly announced, not one goal has been achieved. The number of state officials has increased, we do not have any information as to how much it has collected, it has accumulated that part of the state administration, efficiency has not been increased, and citizens are finding it harder and harder to reach those services that the state administration must provide them with. We specifically warned about the social care segment, and we said that it was not good to throw this large complex and burdensome system into three ministries and that it would not be possible to implement it. Today, we are discussing and delaying the application of a segment of obligations to be undertaken by the Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity, under an exclusively propaganda phrase that the new Government will now take on one extremely large and better responsibility for the family in the new term. It's nice to say so, but it just didn't happen in practice, because once again something Croatia has to do is delayed. The Ministry isn't ready either. I'm saying today in this segment, but there's still a whole series of segments that have been scattered around some new, old ministries and that don't work at all. There will be opportunities, I think, even today, to mention some other segments that have been deployed into the field of social care and that do not produce any results. I'm going to take a brief look at the controversy that was led, that is, the debate that was held yesterday and that is closely related to what we're talking about, what we're talking about today. Who is to blame and why are or are not the courts willing to take over this part and create family vessels. According to the Justice Department, there are no experts. And it's one part true that there's no expert. But even more accurate is something that doesn't say here and that doesn't want to be acknowledged and hidden, which is related to the budget with budget planning and budget implementation. I don't know how much you know, but you'll hear it now, and let our citizens hear it. In Croatia, we have courts that received the latest in the state budget from the Treasury in February, March this year. And we're in September today. We have courts that shut down phones, which have no faxes, which have no communication with either their own ministry or anyone who has to communicate with those courts. Although little in an open conversation when judges quietly dare to say, they too are a little afraid of the repression they can experience because they can be replaced. When you talk to them, then they will tell you that never, not compared to the previous mandate, but that in these 14 years, the Croatian state has never been that way. I didn't say this to criticise you, but to confront you and the government gentlemen. And we're really leading the controversy here today, and it seems to me, if these little polemics exist, between the impressions and the facts. The fact is that even within these deadlines, if it continues this way, it will not be able to fulfil the obligations required of us in relation to international conventions, in relation to the laws that we have passed and which are not disputed for anyone here. It's enough and it's time to stop talking about care, about love, about how people love someone, and people don't like someone, because it's our duty to do and do things, to act by law, not by law, so, like in this case, to change them with changes and supplements, to spend time on these discussions, let's stop doing it once and start working. Or even worse, when the law is passed, and then the rules of the law change which I say is not so in this case, but I'm afraid the next time it can't be covered up, then it won't change the law, but only some cracks will solve things.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20044	Thank you. The word has an esteemed representative, I think, Ingrid Anticevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20045	Dear Mr. President, honourable representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. I will now here in my individual debate what is the obligation of a parliamentary representative but also of all parliamentary deputies to warn of constitutionality. It's anti-constitutional law. Article 29 states that everyone has the right to decide, within a reasonable period, by law, the rights and obligations of an independent and impartial court. That it was precisely the affairs of the jurisdiction of the Constitutional Court. So we all took an oath that we would stick to the Constitution and at a time when the government is proposing militant laws that almost every citizen enters the vehicle almost as soon as he has committed a violation, so he may have to follow various regulations and instructions that are very difficult for those who are engaged in the application of that sea and the flood of legal regulations at all to know whether or not to apply them and adhere to them, perhaps for a start to the government would be enough to adhere to the Constitution itself. It might already be the first step. And a significant step. We have one situation, that a living man cannot understand, that we prevent courts from dealing with matters that the Constitutional Court has said must deal with. And on the other hand, we don't want to apply the law that, and it's done by a few thousand, maybe a few thousand objects. And on the other hand, we don't want to relieve them of cases that aren't fateful, which are hundreds of thousands of objects, and where we already have a law prepared, and where this country costs nothing to apply. So what's this? So much for an enormous amount of incompetence. And what my colleague Zeljka Antunovic said, that is unfortunately true. We, when we took over and we took over that resistor, first we had to pay for the electricity, the water, there was no means, now the judges don't even have the paper. What kind of reform? It's gonna be hard to keep things up. We're going back again. It is necessary to invest and provide more and more resources, and that is not the case. It is true that he told his colleague Bosnjakovic that a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Courts has been passed which, in some ways, redistribute the work from loaded courts, will relieve these cases, i.e. direct them to others. And it works. It was the law prepared by the former government, but it doesn't matter. This is our business together. So I say, first of all, it's time to relieve the judiciary of unnecessary cases. You have a law that, whose application costs you nothing, you choose to apply it, it doesn't seem. And now there's a question of responsibility. But what's here today when we're discussing this bill. It is now evident that the Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity has not functioned. It's not working. He doesn't do jobs that he put into his own task, that's obvious. But that's why we've got a lot of nice words, we've got a fictional speech behind which nothing stands, and that speech that sometimes grows into the speech of the spine and nothing since the realization. Well, you've been defeated by the results of your colleague Opačić and no one. Results from some items, especially where we swear to children, about child care at zeros. Well, that's something we all need here to worry about. And one more thing. You don't need to keep it a secret to the citizens. They need to be told openly here. That's not gonna protect the state budget. All those in front of the Social Care Centro have the right to sue the Republic of Croatia for any decision. The European Court of Human Rights grants compensation to individual countries or condemns a particular country. The last case was with Sweden and the Netherlands. This is what Croatia is waiting for tomorrow under this anti-constitutional law. Who will be responsible for this damage? We will pass this law, we warned that we should loudly oppose this law because it will cost Croatia compensation and it would be fair not to pay the tax bonds then, but to those who contributed to such an illegal, anti-constitutional state. And it is certain that our citizens will benefit from this, especially dissatisfied parties in these administrative procedures at the Social Care Centre and have the right to do so, and you will be responsible for this damage which, tomorrow, the European Court of Human Rights, in the enormous amounts of judgments, Croatia. Then don't say you didn't know. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20046	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect quote, the esteemed representative Tomljanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20047	Mr. Vice President, I'd like to correct one or two incorrect allegations that the distinguished colleague has made and according to her words on the disastrous state of justice now. It is said that "the judges have no paper, the judges do not have for phones a catastrophic material state that has never been in the Croatian judiciary". It's simply not true because it can't be that it's only eight months in that material, so I'm only talking about the material status of judges and courts, that's what happened. So, the truth works because it was all in this one catastrophic tone and it is said that it is not such a dramatic state. The courts are mainly municipal courts burdened with a whole series of problems. It is also true in this material sense, but that such a situation has, in particular, occurred in the last eight months, it is simply not true, and in this sense I am correcting the quote of distinguished colleagues.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20048	Thank you. Before correcting the incorrect allegations, I forgot the violation of the Rules of Procedure. Honorable representative byte.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20049	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. In her speech, a colleague of parliament injured Article 214 if you listened carefully and among other things said that the government is proposing militant laws and that it does not adhere to the Constitution, so if Ms. Anticevic is too much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20050	Thank you. Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, respected representative Antičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20051	that the whole Rules of Procedure is misused, in particular the provision of Article 209 when it is intended to be polymerised or corrected, distorts the exact allegations. [[You can't hear the conversation later on.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20052	What article was injured?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20053	Article 209 is because my colleague has not corrected any of my incorrect allegations but has distorted my exact quote and other than that. And the provision of Article 214.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20054	Allow me. The esteemed representative byte did not report for the correction of the incorrect allegations but for the violation of the Rules of Procedure. You've reported for a breach of the Rules of Procedure and tell me the article that was injured.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20055	Let me finish. In this regard, it is also the provision of an article 214 which says that I should be the one to give the warning because I am the one to insult. So is it true that this is an insult?- I'm sorry. Can you claim here that this isn't about an anti-constitutional bill? So please be nice.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20056	It's not working. Thank you. Dear Representative Anticevic, this is not a violation of Rule 209 of the Rules of Procedure. Next to correct the incorrect allegations, the respected representative Markovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20057	Mr. Vice President, here's a colleague in her characteristic losing style who said besides the rest that the government is not sticking to the Constitution which I think is a very arbitrary interpretation. Just to remind you that the previous government looked like a fragmented orchestra where every minister did what he wanted to do, regardless of spending no money on budgets intended inside without respecting the Public Procurement Act or anything like that.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20058	Thank you. You've corrected an incorrect quote. The word is a respected representative of Gordana Sobol. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20059	Mr. Chairman, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! I would just like to stress and confirm in a few sentences today what I did yesterday evening during the debate on changes to the Family Law, which is closely related to these amendments to the Law on Design and the Part-Corruption of the Central Authorities of the State Administration, so confirm what I said last night in the debate on Family Law. Both my predecessors and predecessors in their discussions highlighted today an already evident and devastating fact. I think that, as Parliament's advocates, it is defeating that we, in fact, have an inefficient large-scale state administration and that of those announcements that we have been about to execute, that the new government is going to reform the state administration so far, there is no sign of that. And unfortunately, today and what we have been saying is that from the crackdown on the number of ministries, it doesn't come out immediately and efficiently and faster management. Moreover, it turns out that we were right when we said that in certain segments it would come, I dare say, and total confusion, and then today it allows for a practical ball of responsibility to be transferred from one ministry to another ministry. I want to repeat what I said last night, that on certain committees representatives of the Ministry of the Family wonder why they are actually present when this is actually a problem directly related to the ministry, of another Ministry of Justice. I want to say it here today. For what is now happening, so the re-longing of the legislation is the responsibility of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of the Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity. She is responsible as Deputy Prime Minister, primarily because she is the one I know as well as I am in charge of coordinating all these resistors. In a debate that was in January and April, this is how I'm going to say, then we could probably still point fingers at the former government and say, well, you're, you didn't do what you were supposed to do in those six months, but now it's already been over here and over eight months, we're in the middle of the ninth month. And now I'm asking the question of who are we gentlemen to point a finger at? I now point my finger to the current government, to certain ministers who have not done their job. I claim that this ineffectiveness of the government and the dissatisfaction of certain segments in that government is being expressed, and I suppose this will also show the debate in those reports that are just ahead of us. These are reports on the implementation of the State budget where exactly on certain items there are none or minimal or not to say ridiculous. So I repeat, the responsibility for what is happening today is borne by me regarding these laws primarily by the Deputy Prime Minister and I am now calling on her to really be the last pro-longing of these laws and to make an effort to coordinate in her portfolio and finally agree to take over what belongs to her according to the name of the Ministry of Family, Defence and intergenerational solidarity.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20060	Thank you. Does the Proposer want to add? State Secretary Palaric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20061	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen, whenever it comes to reforms, changes in the system, it's clear that we're opening up polemics and we probably all want our new system to function as soon as possible. It is important for us to prepare a new model thoroughly, in whole, so that there is no confusion as to the jurisdiction between the state administration body and the judicial authorities. Therefore, we remain on the proposal to adopt this law as proposed. But the debate took place in the direction of the state of justice. The debate went in the direction of the government's indictment that the government is violating the constitution which is totally unacceptable to me as a representative of the government, so much so that I won't even look back in particular. The Croatian Government respects the Constitution, it is its obligation and it does so in each of its activities and the only body that can assess whether the law is constitutional or not it is the Constitutional Court itself. The government is making huge efforts to implement Croatia's judiciary reforms. This is a long-term process, the process requires both time and resources and personnel. And I have to say as a man who has denied justice, who for many years has been a judge and president of the court that actually the material position of the judges has never been better than now, that in this budget, the paragraph for the judiciary and this year has increased by about 20%, that huge projects are under way and that the reform moves in the judiciary are well assessed by the International Community that is working with us on these projects. The reform of the administration is also going into phases and is now ahead of us, this autumn’ a new phase of state administration will be proposed according to European standards that must be seriously and thoroughly prepared and therefore cannot be said that the reform of the administration has ended or has not begun. The first phase has ended, and the second phase will be proposed to this Parliament this fall. But in order for me not to get off the subject too, I suggest that this law be adopted as proposed because it is better to preserve a system that works rather than force something, a new system that is not ready. He's not ready. We're preparing it, we're working on it. The entire government, along with the Fatal Authority, will be prepared as planned. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20062	I thank Secretary of State Palaric. I'm closing the debate. The vote will be later.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20063	Final proposal for a law amending the Law on Construction and the Part-Corruption of the Central Authorities of the State Administration. The debate on the text of the law is over. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee. Yes, please, Mr. Edmond Miletic, Deputy Secretary of State of the Central State. 1st Amendment of the Committee on Legislatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20064	The government accepts the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20065	Thank you. It becomes an integral part of the law. 2nd Amendment of the same... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20066	The same government accepts.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20067	Thank you. It becomes an integral part of the Law. We also have amendments to the Club of Representatives of the HSP. In respect of the first amendment, we cannot also for the same reasons as Article 163(3), paragraph 3. The Rules of Procedure shall be voted on as it does not apply to articles covered by the proposed amendments and amendments. The same applies to your amendment 2. So also yours, your Club's proposal in Amendments 1 and 2 does not apply to articles covered by the proposed amendments and additions.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20068	He's reading it wrong.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20069	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20070	Mr. President, you are first misreading our article 2. Our article 2 we went nomotechnically to fix. Tried to fix what was badly done. So, because it's impossible to go on changes and supplement that you don't mention both... What I was saying. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's why we gave the copy because it changes Article 26. It's just the Law on amending and supplementing the law, and it says in the text the whole law. What's he for?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20071	Here's why he didn't. Because you are in the article, because you have proposed in this amendment 1 that Article 1 be changed and read, and that it is changed among other things and that the name of the ministry is changed. This is not covered by amendments and amendments to the proposed law, so no such amendment can be submitted.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20072	To be submitted for talking about the ministry's affairs. We're asking it to be the Croatian Defence Department. You're against it.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20073	Well, yes, of course. Well, that's what we're talking about. But you're looking for something that wasn't suggested.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20074	The Constitution for Croatian defenders is foreseen. That's why... [[speaks out loud, doesn't understand]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20075	That's another thing. That's a fellow dear, that's another thing. However, amendments may only be submitted to the articles covered by the proposed amendments and amendments. This article, which is you, your amendment is not proposed by amendments and supplements covered. For these procedural reasons, you can't stand him. The government ministry did not propose to amend the name of its own ministry in its draft law on amendments and additions to this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20076	That's why we did it.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20077	That's why you are. But you can't. So you have to go with a special law if you want a change of name. The same applies to the amendment to the second. Please. The adoption of this Law requires a majority of the votes of all MPs. At least 77 votes in favour. In accordance with the provisions of Article 226. Rules of Procedure. Who's in favor of this bill? Thank you. Against? Abstained? I find that, with 77 votes to, 16 against, 11 abstentions, this law was passed in the text as proposed by the Proposer. Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, respected representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20078	The Rules of Procedure got hurt in that section.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20079	Which one?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20080	Not well-counted votes. Just before it was 75 for, no one came into the hall. There was no change of voice. In addition to not applying the electronic vote, it will not be possible to miscount.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20081	A colleague. I, like the esteemed former president, Mr. Tomcic, would be happy to apply this electronic voting system, we've all taken over alive, all expensive but vas major.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20082	We're going to the 14th point of the agenda. 14. Proposal for a law on the power of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to regulate certain issues from the Croatian Parliament's section, with the Final Proposal of the Law, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 157; The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and when establishing the agenda, we accepted the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of this law. You received the proposal by mail pursuant to Article 159. The Rules of Procedure, emergency procedure, unites the 1st and 2nd reading of the law. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate, Article 164. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? State Secretary Palaric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20083	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, the constitutional position of the Croatian Parliament is that it regulates the legal order by law, but the Constitution also provides for the possibility of transferring a legislative delegation to the government in certain matters when the Croatian Parliament does not sit. The Croatian Parliament regularly does so each year by passing a law authorising the Government to regulate certain issues other than those which are forbidden under the Constitution itself, which is state structure, electoral system, political system and the like. Therefore, we propose a law authorising the Government to authorise the Government to regulate certain issues of economic policy between 15 December 2004 and 15 July 2005 when the Croatian Parliament does not meet from 15 December 2005 and from 15 July 2005 to 15 September 2005. Extraordinary, since we can never be sure that some facts cannot happen we propose to leave power to the government that in the event that the Parliament is dissolved, that his mandate expires, which is unlikely to happen, that the Government can also edit these issues. If this law is adopted, the government will submit a report at the first session of the Parliament on the regulations it has adopted on the basis of this legal authority. I must say that the government is very rarely used by this authority and that this will be a very rare case in the future, but that the situation would not occur when the Assembly does not have a session that a particular issue cannot be settled, and it is necessary for the conduct of economic policy that we propose that this law be passed by an emergency procedure since it ceases to apply soon before the law. The technology we use in our work is a major aid, but sometimes a mistake occurs so that in Article 4, those who wrote this law are undercut by a slip in the wrong name of the law on which regulations would be based which would be valid until December 31st. We saw the same thing when we got the power to represent, but in that sense, an amendment has been tabled that we will accept, and I don't think technical mistakes should be much insisted. I'll warn the authors that such things don't happen anymore. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20084	Thank you. Does the Committee’s rapporteur want to take the floor? On behalf of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system, the respected representative Bosnjakovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20085	Mr Vice-President, colleagues and colleagues, the Committee discussed the law under its jurisdiction as set out in Article 57 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament as a parent working body. Most votes suggest that the law be passed by emergency procedure, but the opinion is also expressed that the adoption of the law by emergency procedure is not necessary because the Government of the Republic of Croatia can use the powers laid down in the bill only at a time when the Croatian Parliament does not meet i.e. From 15 December to 15 January 2005 and from 15 July to 15 September 2005 Five votes were in favour, three were against it. The debate stresses that the draft law should use the titles in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, and the Committee considers the inappropriate name of the Croatian Parliament referred to in Article 4 of the Reasons in accordance with points 5 and 6. A bill of law. In this respect, the Committee unanimously set out the amendment to Article 4 of the final draft of the law, and after the debate, the Committee proposed, by a majority of votes of 5 in favour and 3 in the heart of the Croatian Parliament, to adopt this Law. With that, I've already said, we're proposing an amendment means that the words "representative home" are deleted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20086	Thank you. The Legislative Committee. We're going to a club debate. On behalf of the HSP Club, the respected representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20087	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. State dungeon. Although this situation is a little different than in that first example because the charming secretary and his office did not do this Law. So that these criticisms that I'm going to say on behalf of the HSP Club don't go to his expense, it goes to the expense that we found out about the Office of the Government's legislation. Who was doing this text. Well, then we are not surprised at the fact that the regulations come to us when the Office of Law which should coordinate and coordinate both nomotechnical and legal processing when he does such regulations. So the Office of the Government's Legislative Authority, which is most important in the Government, should be responsible before the Prime Minister is referred to the procedure of any legislative proposal. When he can't prescribe a law that doesn't apply. Then what are we talking about here? I will now go to concrete remarks, first normally to oppose an emergency procedure in the adoption of this law because there are no valid reasons why this Law must be adopted in an emergency procedure. Due to the fact that Croatian means in the regular session, this period means from 15 September to 15 December. And I don't see any urgency in passing the law exactly by emergency procedure. And I also don't see any reason for the law to come into force on the day of its publication in the People's Newspaper. We don't see any reason here. But the biggest problem for us was with all these powers given to the government, which we have one all slowly quiet in the provisions and in the laws of a quiet transition to the office system. We have all these regulations. It is a great danger for us from the parliamentary system to move slowly in all regulations to the office system. You saw it yesterday and in these other laws. That the government can change everything beyond that and power, that it can do other things, means exceptions become a rule and slowly in this way we move into an office system which is very dangerous. And that is why we cannot agree that when the Government adopts regulations with legal force, it means in a period in which it can pass, it changes the principles of law on the basis of which the law is adopted in the procedure in the Croatian Parliament, and also means that it must not change the essence of the law. We had a situation that the former government had passed around 11 regulations, and in those regulations it essentially changed both principles and essentially made amendments to the law. Let's just say, that regulation was about telecommunications, and all we can see is that today is still the day of the five regulations that are more intrinsic than the government. Since this government has done the same to oppose the adoption of a regulation with legal force. So we need to be very careful here because in the way we do regulations and how this regulation is made, we are slowly changing constitutional regulations and entering the office system. Therefore, we ask the Government to amend Article 6, Article 4 said it would change. But also to add in Article 2 to that fence that regulations with the legal force cannot fundamentally amend the law. You can't. We had a case that the government immediately after the break period, immediately adopted two regulations. Well, she could've given it to this house. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20088	Thank you. On behalf of the HNSa PGS Club, the respected representative Nikola Vuljanić. Here you go. And Dragutin Lesar ate seven minutes each.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20089	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Once again, we have one of the laws that is passed by a standard procedure that we shouldn't think about, which is technically. And which government will react quickly to the situation when the Parliament does not meet. These nomotechnical errors occurred again, and the Croatian National Assembly are, of course, mistakes that can happen to everyone. But there's a bit of frido. Apparently, the system the law was working on was digging up the traps, being copied, being taken out of one law and moving into this one. But the basis from which it was taken wasn't passed the law but passed. So it's from another millennium. I guess there's regret for that. However, in the sense of the matter, the law speaks of a delegation of the legislative authority of the Assembly. But what happens in practice is not a delegation, but a violation of the laws that the Parliament has passed. For example, at its last meeting, this last list of regulations in the light of Article 4 of the last Regulation concerns the Law on the municipal economy, which was adopted at the last session of the Assembly. According to the government's proposal. In order for that same government's regulation to change, I don't know within 15, 20 days, a month. Which is definitely not the purpose or function of this law. So the government is using regulations not to react to the current situation when the Parliament is not in session but to change the law next to the Parliament. And whether or not in accordance with Parliament's will. Such a law and in particular such practice definitely cannot be accepted by law if it remains in this form and we have some amendments, the club HBVA PGSA will not vote. Such a law, regardless of what it applies in the past government, represents the possibility of a direct attack on the parliamentary system of the Republic of Croatia. And it's our responsibility not to accept him like this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20090	Dear ladies and gentlemen, this moment with us in this high house is the President of the Parliament of the Kingdom of Norway. Mr. Jergen Cosmo, with his associates, please welcome him. Dear Ensign Dragutin Lesar. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20091	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Is there a need to enforce this law? I also claim on behalf of the Croatian People's Party club and the Primorian Mountain Alliance, yes. It is indisputable and as explained in the explanation that Article 87. The Constitution provides for the possibility for the Assembly to transfer part of its powers to the Government under certain circumstances and conditions. However, I do not believe that the Parliament itself, in its nature, wants to give up part of its legislative powers, should always do so on a proposal or request from the Government. And if the government is asking for Parliament to give up parts of its powers in its favour, it is expected to give arguments. Arguments to prove the necessity of such transfer. The only argument in terms of the law is, in this proposal, that's the only thing that's happened so far. I can understand and it was good that in the 1990s when we were creating a state and when we were at war, when we were occupied that the Parliament had transferred part and given the possibility that the government would change the laws that the Parliament was adopting. However, I believe that after 1995, no government had the authority to demand such authority. After 95, none. When does the government seek legislative law? Between 15.7 and 15.9., and 15.12 and 15.1., on the grounds that the Assembly does not then meet, but Article 78 of that same Constitution provides for the possibility and the right of the Government to request the extraordinary session of the Assembly for Laws, which is a restriction that it cannot be transposed, which is sufficiently quorum 77 MPs, and that the decision is voted 39. And what's the problem? Both during the summer and winter holidays, the government has the right to request an extraordinary session of the Parliament, if the law needs to be amended. So, at that time, I don't believe there would be any, and it doesn't say, in any argument, any arguments. The example of the municipal economy was presented by his colleague Vuljanic. A second time when power is sought, from the day of the Parliament's disbandment to the establishment of a new one. Okay, there's no Parliament. However, I must remind myself of the recent adoption of the law in the process of handing over the authorities previously, I think on 2 July we adopted in this same House when a large amount of criticism was spoken, large and difficult words fell on the former government which, after the election was called, made some decisions to the handover and was said: From the day of the election to the constitution or confirmation of the new government, the old government is the technical government, and this law has forbidden them the appointment of any duties, only possibly v.d. where national interests are at risk, the signing of any contract of a more significant value, unless it is an international obligation and nothing else is to be done. That law is in force. We are now coming with a request from the government that it can change the laws in that interregnum after the Parliament's disbandation and so on. So why didn't we write in the Law on Handing Over Authorities that then the Government was passing laws, not just changing them? We said then, nothing, and now let's let them pass the laws. It is therefore not correct to claim first that nothing must be done, that it is the rest of the technical government, that they only have to enforce existing laws and make technical decisions only, and now they are required to have legislative legislation in that time. I think that by accepting our amendment to the eradication of Article 1 of the law, the law could correct and tolerate the time of the Parliament's disbandment until the constitution of a new one in the case of natural disasters, perhaps war dangers, anything when Parliament is gone, but beyond that time they could not accept it, the more this House said on July 2nd that it simply cannot have any serious authority after the election is called. The final provisions go with the government's report to the Parliament on the regulations adopted. And why not amend and supplement laws that were only valid until that justified reason when the Assembly did not exist? Why is it coming with a report, not a request for confirmation of amendments and addition of laws, rather than a confirmation of regulations? Because there's no debate opening. And that's why we won't vote for this bill, we won't support it, especially if our amendment isn't accepted. And in the very end, Mr. Vice President, yesterday we were once again witnessing the indignity of technical aids in this House when this system that cost nearly 2 million kunas didn't work again. If, please, if the Siemens can't function this system, then let's call Shimatsu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20092	Thank you. It's the SDP counseling club. Dear Representative Mato Arlovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20093	Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues, allow me to say immediately on behalf of the Social Democrats Club that we will no longer vote for this bill, for the simple reason that we think it finally happened that they have acquired both real and legal reasons that such a law, fortunately, no longer needs to exist in the Republic of Croatia. Moreover, the arguments stemming from the Constitution itself, and even in the light of this law, actually point out that it is unnecessary. In fact, the fact is that the legislative delegation of the legislative body to the executive authority is actually practiced in situations where it is possible to expect not only that there are legal gaps, but that simply because of the nature of things, because of the needs of economic ones, because of the resolution of certain issues of importance for the majority of the population, and that Parliament is unable to legislate the issue, that it is then for such a legislative delegation to enable the government to settle these issues until Parliament, or Parliament, again, is in session and that this Parliament confirms it. The time of war, the times of the most difficult forms in the economy around privatisation and economic disturbances have passed in an extraordinary state are not, fortunately, and for these reasons we believe that this law is not necessary first. Others are practical reasons. We believe that it would be necessary to analyse the draft of this law perhaps in the last 7, 8 years, and how many times has a legislative delegation that has been allowed by the Parliament to pass such a law, and how many times, instead of a legislative delegation to regulate the legal gap, has actually been used by this power to exercise the legislative authority and instead of implementing the laws that Parliament has passed, that it has actually amended and amended these laws and amended those laws. First, we believe that under the Constitution, such a delegation cannot be transferred and removed by the legislative authority, because it is very clear there in Article 87. The Croatian Parliament may, for the most part, authorise the Government of Croatia, on a time of one year, to settle certain issues from its own circle, but not to settle those issues that have already been settled. We only have in this attachment the fact that all regulations have been amended or complemented by existing laws, and no individual issue has been settled. The other thing they would like to point out is the fact that, in fact, the third thing they would like to point out is that the argument that this law should even be passed by emergency procedure is neither practical nor legal. First, this existing law expires on 10.10. and is actually meant to say, if before 10.10. no law is passed which would be in force again since 10.10., then onward, that there will be major legal problems, even if it will occur, it is possible that there will be no way to prevent the creation of a legal void, as it says in the context of an emergency procedure, and in its essence there is a request in the executive government, that it has a permanent possibility. Not for a year but a permanent, continuous possibility, though, that is being renewed every year, that it has a legislative part, a legislative delegation passed on to itself. And that's something that's inadmissible, it's actually intrusive, it's seriously intruding the executive authority and in the legislative authority and by the will of the legislative authority, which is not good. I think that because of the principle of power-sharing or strengthening parliamentary democracy, and ultimately, strengthening the position of the legislative authority should be stopped as a matter of particular control. Fourthly, you know, it has to be said that the argument about an emergency procedure doesn't stand at all. It has to be said that the Constitution didn't set it that way. The constitution has made it possible for the legislative authority to pass it on to the delegation rather than make a commitment. And in that respect, if there's a legal gap, then it comes from a different position. Moreover, I am the proponent of this Law, but also in all the laws so far, in a textual sense, very different approach to resolving this issue than it states in an explanation for the needs of the law. In fact, Article 1 states: "The Government of the Republic of Croatia is empowered to regulate current economic policy issues by regulations", but not to amend the laws. This is already a regulated question that does not need to be arranged but needs to be implemented. Moreover, if there are economic disturbances that require urgent legislative intervention, the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which has the possibility, according to the Rules of Procedure and our Constitution, should seek an extraordinary session and ask that the legislative issues be regulated especially since the Assembly can meet. Therefore, there are no real reasons to prevent the Assembly from being ambushed in such a situation. Fifthly, we must say that seriously at this stage after almost 14 years of independence and sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia, we are of the opinion that there is no longer any need to doubt the incompleteness and dysfunction of the legal system from the aspect of the legislative part. The legal system is legally looking round. It should be developed, coordinated with the European Union. Yes, but it cannot be said that it is not rounded up and that there are some issues left, areas that are not regulated mainly in terms of economic and social policy. And in a situation like this, a bill like this is actually a counterargument. It proves that we have an incomplete and imperfect law that, in fact, a legislative legal system that is crawling with legal gaps and which does not regulate the current, the issue of economic policy and, that is, economic policy, which is why a legislative delegation should be given in order to deal with these issues. We feel that these questions are no longer standing and that we should actually give up on such a law and should no longer be dealt with by this law. The more this is taken together, the more this law opens up the possibility that, during constitutional breaks, regulations with legal force can be passed to regulate the current economic policy. But gentlemen, there is an institute for an extraordinary session of the Parliament. Therefore, it is also possible to call an extraordinary session at that time if there is indeed a need to regulate economic, current, economic policy. There's no need for us to have this work. I remind my colleagues, just to get a copy of this law and read it. So to see all the regulations, then you'll see that it's actually about regulations, amendments and additions to regulations with legal force, additions to the regulation, amendments to the regulations. And in such a situation, it is quite clear that this authority no longer needs it. It is mostly inadmissible that what happened is actually happening with the last regulation that has already been mentioned by colleagues. It is unacceptable that, at the last session of the Parliament, we have changed, the Parliament has changed, and in essence, no more serious amendment that has been engulfed by the Law, the Law on the Communist Economy, which was given by representatives of Parliament, therefore, regardless of party membership. The executive power proposed by this Act has not been accepted. Yeah, but what happened? A few days, practically, after the entry into force of this Act and the start of the need for its application, the Executive Authority amends the Law. I'm sorry, or she's changed her political stance on how the municipal economy should be run in the Republic of Croatia, without informing the Parliament or actually knowingly playing the legislative authority. It cannot exist because, of course, there is a third component, and that is that it has not properly prepared the law to resolve those issues that we want, and it is again referring to the fact that it does not access this Parliament with due attention and great care when a certain law is proposed and when certain solutions are offered. For all these reasons, we also believe that in the executive government, when it comes to the implementation of the law, when it comes to the preparation of possible laws and the referral of them as a proposal, more attention should be paid to legislative activity. Not only in a formal and nomotechnical and linguistic sense, but above all in a substantive sense, which and what policy is meant to be achieved by this law. After all, it is an instrument in the rule of law state, in parliamentary democracy, an instrument to realise and implement economic, social and any other policy that the executive government offers to Parliament. Now, there are a few more arguments. I don't think it's correct of the motionors in this House to make such, let's call, language failures as it is. It is not that the article 4 indicates only that the House of Representatives is still mentioned. The point is that even Articles 5 and 6 explain: "The House of Representatives of the Croatian National Assembly". There is no longer any constitutional name under the authority of this Parliament to address the issue. Of course, unless whoever suggested it wanted that name back knowingly. But it was returned to the anti-constitutional way. Therefore, not only is this a question of knowledge and ignorance and failure but it can also be treated as a provocation towards Parliament. And in this respect, this issue needs to be very well considered, and it must also be taken into account that this relationship or indicator, better said, is another indicator of the executive authority according to the legislative authority, according to Parliament, and should be properly taken into account. Seven, there is no reason, if a law is already passed that should be authorised by the Government, the executive authority, and in fact it is about the transfer of the constitutional institute, that it should not only be adopted by an urgent procedure but even by the day of its publication in the "National Journal". That really doesn't have any reason. Because the first time such power stems from the law can be used may not occur until after 15.12 this year or exceptionally if Parliament is expected to be disbanded within the next month, two days. Now, I don't know, for all reasons of constitutionality, this could hardly be indicated unless the government plans to cause a budget crisis in the adoption of the next budget, so as to open the process of disbanding Parliament as a result of the possible rejection of the budget. But forgive me, please, it's a matter of consistency, the credibility of this government. I purposely draw this constitutional argument to show in fact what everything can be associated with such solutions as are proposed in the proposed Law. That doesn't make sense. Therefore, if this is the case, we should not only consider that it should be obtained at least 8 days after the publication of the entry into force, vacatio legis, but, among other things, indicate why these 8 days are needed. Citizens of this country who have their constitutional right to govern and rule this country, because it is the people who bear the sovereignty of this country who have transferred to the representatives they have elected to Parliament, that they must be able to read in the paper, that part of that legislative authority in matters of current and economic, or economic policy, has transferred this Parliament to executive power, but would have to know and have valid reasons why it did so. There's no reason to explain this bill. So let me get this straight. For all these reasons, therefore, I am re-emphasizing the real, economic, legal and social, and at the end of all this success that the Republic of Croatia has achieved, in particular, one legislative and legal relationship between the legislative and executive authorities, we feel that there is no longer any need for such a law and no longer any need to be passed, and therefore the Club of Representatives of the SDP will not vote for this law, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20094	Thank you. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community, Honored Representative Drazen Bosnjakovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20095	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian Democratic Community Club will support the adoption of this Law and we consider this law indeed to be a technical solution and we see this in fact because each year such a law was passed. Article 87 of our Constitution provides that the Croatian Parliament may, for the most part, authorise the Government of the Republic of Croatia, for a period of time of one year, to regulate certain issues from its part-round, except those relating to the development of the constitution of established human rights, fundamental freedoms, national rights, electoral system, structure, part-line and way of working of state bodies and local self-government. We see here that this Law empowers the Government to regulate the issues of current economic policy from the Parliament's section. Whether it is necessary or not, given that two and a half months in the course of the year we are not in session, we think that such a law is needed to give the Government such authority that regulations replace the Parliament and regulate certain issues of the current economic policy. It is really a matter of wisdom, conscience, responsibility, or not knowing how I would tell the Government that this institute is actually used only on exceptional occasions. It means that it regulates these regulations certain issues that are not and do not require such importance that at that time an extraordinary session of the Assembly would be convened, that at that time, however, the costs of an extraordinary session of the Parliament are significantly higher than the meetings of the Government, I think if we did one analysis of these regulations that were based on these provisions, I don't think there's any concern of what was already said in advance that we are slowly changing the system and moving on to an office system. It shows neither there were so many significant regulations nor it was such a large number of regulations, I don't think there are any dangers. So we don't consider this law so essential, I think it's very important that the government actually uses it on exceptional occasions. As you can see, there is indeed an amendment to the Law, that the name in Article 4 is not properly nominated, however, we do not see any evil intentions but we consider it simply to be a single write error, I can say in fact that this is the consequence of probably something that I was already talking about when it came to the formation of the state administration itself, which is the material position of our officials in the state administration. I think that we must work in this period of our time on the best material position of our officers, certain places in the system of state administration must certainly be better evaluated in order to make it attractive for those top experts, and this will result in us getting on these benches of laws that we will not have to change with our amendments and which will be nom technically much better prepared. The Croatian Democratic Community will therefore support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20096	Thank you very much. In the name of the HSS Club, respected representative Josip Vresk.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20097	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian Peasant Party Club could support this Act on two conditions, the first condition if this Law really passed two readings, which we believe is that there really is no obstacle. Namely, the Parliament is sitting until 15 December of this year and we think that the Government could refer the law to another reading, accept any comments and suggestions on this text and thus get one more quality law. The second reason is a little more important to nature. The Croatian Peasant Party Club cannot accept such a law and simply because the Government often interprets and often applies such laws extensively. If the government had a restrictive interpretation of such a regulation, and if it were really necessary, we would, of course, support this Law. We all know that there are really circumstances where the Government must affect part of parliamentary, legislative activities, regardless of the strict trinity of the authorities under our Constitution, but that these must indeed be the necessary exceptions. And now I'm going to show you an example of what it looks like when everything looks formal and when the Constitution is really breaking and this law itself. In March this year, the Croatian Peasant Party Club sent the Croatian Parliament a final proposal for a law on the protection of rescue. In her opinion sent by the Government to this High House, it stated: "It is under way, I quote "The draft bill on protection and rescue that the Government of the Republic of Croatia will refer to in the Parliamentary procedure in accordance with the operational plan for 2004 in the first quarter of this year". It's approaching the last quarter, the government hasn't sent such a regulation. And all of this would be nothing if we hadn't passed the Act on the Part-Corruption of Labour in March of the month, i.e. the amendments to that law, the ministries and state administrations, under which a new large state administration was established, and in Article 25 of that Law, it said: "The State Protection and Rescue Authority will begin with the work of 1 January 2005. A year.". Of course, it is good that even in the spring the law has been amended, and I said so in the previous discussion, that the possibility is given to the Government and the Croatian Parliament to pass a more quality law and then to allow the Government to adopt the Internal Affairs Regulation and all those sublegal acts other than those sublegal acts that must be brought by the state administration itself. The State Administration, which was established by amending the Act, which will begin work on 1 January next year, has not, of course, yet been operational. She doesn't have a director, she doesn't have that fundamental law, the Protection and Rescue Act, that I'm not talking about the rest of the fire department, etc., in fact, she won't be able to start working. What does that mean? This means that the Government will actually have to, because I doubt that, in this period until 15 December of this year, the Law, or the other laws, will pass two readings, will adopt a regulation that will amend the law on the work of the Ministry and the state administrations and its Article 25(1). The alternative is that the government actually substitutes the whole regulation with its regulation and to write a regulation that will essentially be the Protection and Rescue Act, and thus the Government will also formally respect the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, because it will not actually adopt the budget, it will also respect this law but will really not respect it and now I will also tell you why. Because it is certain that this law will create additional financial obligations, and Article 1 of this Act is not authorised by the Government to adopt regulations on the basis of which additional financial commitments are made. It's just one example of course I could name them more. Of course, there are no longer the circumstances as they were during the war, that during these 14 years the organisation of our country ends in that legal sense in that word and that we round up a legal system and that if the government already has such a possibility, if we give it such an opportunity by this law, then it must be extremely, extremely rarely applied and restrictively, and not so extensively interpreted and adopted regulations, or that the laws or regulations are amended simply by the whole regulation. These are the reasons why the Croatian Peasant Party Club will not support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20098	Thank you. We're going to an individual debate. Dear Representative Nenad Stazic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20099	Dear President of the House, colleagues and colleagues. Well, I think it's the task of all of us to strengthen parliamentaryism. Strengthen the parliamentary system we have in the state. That doesn't seem like the law. The role, importance, importance of Parliament, the importance of this House is weakened by this law. And it is not true, what Bosnjakovic says is that it is only one technical law that has been in place so far. This is also a law that determines the relationship between the government and Parliament. What he has been worth so far, that all governments have applied him so far, doesn't have to be an obstacle to us thinking about our role, our ability, our chance and taking advantage of this opportunity to strengthen parliamentaryism. This law was never so strict. The government had the right to lay down regulations without these deadlines. He's tough in the meantime. Let's serve it even more. Let us make it more stringent if we consider that there is indeed a need for the Government to adopt regulations at times. And then we will show our commitment to strengthen the position and role of Parliament without, at the same time, preventing the normal functioning of the state. It means we don't stop the government from regulating certain issues with regulations. The relationship between the government and Parliament is reflected not only in what the government has offered such a bill, but also in its form, or, let's say its irregularities. In Article 4, the government does not even know the name of the House to which the bill is referred. I don't believe she doesn't know, but there's no one there to look at it a little bit and it's a six- Article law. Secondly, in that same article, it says that the regulations applicable on the date of entry into force of this law will remain in force and for the longest time since 31 December 2004. I guess so, huh? I guess so, huh? Another mess. Thirdly, it is said in reason that this law ceases to apply on October 10th, and is now being carried out because, in 2004, because it came into force on the day of its publication in "The People's Journal", on October 10th of last year. But there's no such thing in the old law. So the old law doesn't determine that this old law is worth a year. He de facto stopped worth it yesterday. Yesterday September 15th, he ceased to apply because a session of the Parliament began. And the government can't, as long as we're in the session making regulations on a regular basis. He can't bring them until December 15th. That's why there's no need for this to be carried out by an emergency procedure. What's the government doing with an emergency procedure now? Why do we now have to vote this week when the government can't consume this law anyway? Unless there's some intention we don't know about. That now, to disband Parliament, to make a decision on its self-determination, then the government is then covered by the law to make a regulation. But if so, then that political intention should be expressed. She's not showing up, and there's no excuse for us to accept an emergency procedure. Now, there's one other thing that's more important than all this stuff I said. The government prescribed the old law, but I'm asking nicely how she prescribed it. In Article 2, she forgot to rewrite the words, as well as to conduct elections and appointments from the jurisdiction of the Croatian Parliament. So it is forbidden for the government to lay down regulations that only the Croatian Parliament can regulate under the Constitution. Making changes to the state budget, tax regulation and in the old law have also been written as well as the conduct of elections and appointments from the jurisdiction of the Croatian Parliament. Now, that restriction is not passed on in this bill. That's unusually interesting. So the government not only weakens its authority, its powers in relation to Parliament, but also strengthens them. What's that for? I doubt this is forgetfulness and this is a mistake that is missing. And look at the possibilities of misusing what's been dropped. Croatia today does not have a public defender. The old mandate ended, the government did not propose to the Assembly of a new occupier, and we are one of the few if not the only country in Europe that does not have a civil defender. And what the government will use now. It will wait on December 15th, and then if this had been thrown out, then the regulation will appoint a civil defender who is the commissioner of this Parliament. So I've made an amendment to get these words back, this restriction, because I think it's important, and I don't think it came out by chance. Both colleagues and colleagues, let us not allow for a groundless deterioration of Parliament's role in this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20100	Thank you. Miroslav Rozic. The honourable representative is not in the hall losing his right to a word. And respected representative Emil Tomljanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20101	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, I would like to point out in the introduction that the legislative body, therefore, has the General Assembly of the Republic of Croatia's constitutional competence to pass laws as the most important general normative acts in the country. In constitutional practice, however, the government often adopts such acts that regulate social relations that must in principle be regulated by law or are subject to changes in existing laws. So, in this case, we are talking about an institute of jurisdiction between the legislative and executive bodies, between this case the Council of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Given all the opportunities we had today to hear in the debate, I really wouldn't repeat myself. However, it should be said that there are three basic cases of jurisdictional disturbances in constitutional practice and may sometimes be confused in terms of debates, as they are said. Namely, there are regulations in the event of an emergency in the case of direct constitutional authority and those which we are discussing today, so in the case of a legislative delegation, when only a legislative body transfers its legislative powers to the executive bodies in a smaller or greater scope. It should be pointed out here that the constitutional legal institute of jurisdiction, based on the powers of Parliament itself, therefore the legislative delegation exists in the constitutional practice of all modern states, and the acts adopted in this case by the Government as representatives of the executive authority are, of course, called the regulations on the basis of legal authority, noting that the adoption of regulations for the application or enforcement of the law is not a violation of jurisdiction, so it does not constitute a disturbance of constitutional jurisdiction between the legislative authority and the executive authority. It should also be said here that, of course, in the constitutional legal sense, we must distinguish between two situations, and this is the first, if the Constitution explicitly allows the transposition of legislative jurisdiction, then the adoption of regulations on the basis of legal authority without question, are therefore in accordance with the Constitution. And in the opposite situation, of course not. All speakers, in fact, quoted article 87. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, so I won't do it. Because there is in fact this authority, or prescribed that the Croatian Parliament can, therefore, empower the Republic of Croatia at the most in time of a year in this sense. and I do not really see any concerns about how Parliament's abolition of parliamentism has been expressed, the weakness of parliamentaryism that is one practice, the practice of relations between Parliament and the Government which as such has been incorporated in all the countries of parliamentary democracy, and there is no concern that, in this sense, the Parliament in relation to the Government is minorised, its position is minor, and, above all, on the government's obligation to adopt, in the final line in this high home substitute, and a report on all those regulations that it adopts in its work on the basis of constitutional powers. So, following everything that's been exposed, I, of course, support the adoption of a regulation just like this. And I don't think those concerns are based on the opportunities we've had to hear about the transition to the office system, the weakening of parliamentaryism. And in any case, the regulation, this is exactly the kind of regulation that we should not be able to identify with those concrete government decisions, because regulations as government acts are something else, and I think we've heard a lot about it today. Finally, I support the proposal, the legislative proposal that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has given us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20102	Thank you. Replica, the esteemed representative of Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20103	Thank you very much. It is not disputed that the Constitution provides for the possibility that the Parliament may give such authority to the Government. However, that same Constitution of the Republic of Croatia in Article 78 which speaks of the regular session of the Assembly in paragraph 2 provided for both the possibilities and circumstances that, even when the Assembly does not meet regularly, the Government may request an extraordinary session of the Assembly in the period from 15 July to 15 September and 15 December and 15 January. So it was the urgency that at that time when the Parliament did not regularly sit, and there were the needs of amending the Law, that the Government could request an extraordinary session of the Parliament, it was the intensity of the Constitution. And otherwise, it could be decided that the Parliament only sits once in four years, we confirm the government and give the authority to pass the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20104	Replica response, respected representative Emil Tomljanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20105	Well, I have to answer to an esteemed colleague that these are two different institutes. One is the Constitutional Legal Institute of the Extraordinary Meeting of the Assembly. And the second is a legislative delegation, an esteemed colleague, who is precisely as a specific form of jurisdictional disorder prescribed by the Constitution in Article 87, but not only in paragraph 1, but also in paragraph 2, and paragraph 3, that we are not now reading the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. As such, it is a practice in all democratic systems, so let's say a parlementary type, it does not represent as a legal institute at all, nor constitutional legal practice, nor theory, nor such a fearsome office system, the introduction of abuse of powers, etc., it is a normal regular constitutional legal institute, because the life and leadership of the state is just the fact that it is a legitimate solution in exceptional cases prescribed by both the Constitution and prohibits everything that the Constitution states to be prohibited, we are talking about regulations, and the bill itself tells you in its Article 1 where things cannot be regulated either. Dear fellow Members, two different constitutional legal institutes, calling an extraordinary session of the Assembly compared to the constitutional legal institute... Regulation (EU) No 515/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 17 December 2013 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation [[/the speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20106	Would State Secretary Mr. Palaric like to give a final review? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20107	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So as long as the government had this authority, which was provided for by the Constitution, very rarely used the possibility that regulations were governed by certain issues and the government had no intention of restricting parliamentaryism in the Croatian state or creating an office system. We insist that such a law be passed, because it is one instrument that should exist, which is in case anything happens that the Government can intervene in, flows of economic life. We propose and stay with the proposal to pass the law by emergency procedure. Because not by adopting this law as proposed and the entry into force as proposed would come into the legal void and the five regulations that are now in force would cease to be valid as we read the law. Therefore, by not entering individual debates, the government remains with its thesis that the law is needed, but that it is not any government intention to take over the role of Parliament and it will use this power very, very narrowly and when, only when the necessity requires it. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20108	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. The final proposal of the Law on the power of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to regulate certain drinking grounds from the part of the Croatian Parliament. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system. First, Mr Miletic on the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system. For one amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20110	The government accepts that amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20111	Thank you for becoming an integral part of the law. The Legislative Committee. First amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20112	It accepts that amendment in fact accepted in half. It is accepted in the section relating to erasing the word "Advocacy Home". However, in the other part, the words are proposed to be "valued" in the word "application", it is not accepted. Since the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia states clearly in Article 81(3) that the regulations adopted under the legal authority cease to apply and do not apply. We don't accept that part.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20113	Mr. President, I think you're withdrawing that amendment. In this part. Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, a respected representative of Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20114	So don't suggest what the board president will say. And I'm also going to have to ask on the board how the president can withdraw his amendments without a committee. But that's a matter of committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20115	He can be a respected colleague. It can and it can. It must give the necessary explanations in the vote of law and so on. Well, if it's something constitutional, then it can suggest it. Then we've got a follow-up club for HNS PGS. Amendment one.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20116	Amendment one shall not be accepted for the reasons set out in Article 1. The final proposal for a law authorised by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to regulate only issues of the current economic policy with the restriction referred to in Article 88(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union during a period where the Croatian Parliament does not regularly sit. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. This means that it is only a matter of urgent regulation in the area of economic policy, which would be more difficult to realise by calling the Croatian Parliament during the period from 15 December 2004 to 15 January 2005. I from 15 July to 15 September 2005 For this reason, the Government does not accept the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20117	Dear Representative Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20118	Thank you very much, Mr. President, our amendment therefore refers to that between 15.7 and 15.9 and 15. This authority would not be given to the Government on 12 to 15.1. I have also expected today arguments which are why, in that time and time, not only in the time from the election day and the parliament's disbandment to the establishment of the new Parliament, the government is asking for these powers. You said today that this would make it more difficult for the government to ask the Parliament at that time of change and supplementation. That's the only argument I'm saying so far, and we're saying it wouldn't be harder. This argument cannot possibly be accepted to make it more difficult. Because I'm asking for a vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20119	Thank you very much. Otherwise, in this explanation of the amendment, it is written in my guess that the government can call for an extraordinary session of the Parliament. An extraordinary session of the Parliament cannot be called by the government, the government can only propose to convene an extraordinary session, and it is then required to call in accordance with the Constitution of the President of the Parliament. And the government can't call. Who is for this amendment that the government does not accept? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 2.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20120	It is also not accepted because it is related to, it is not accepted, nor is an amendment to Article 1. So they're two in a relationship not accepting this one either.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20121	I'm a colleague of Lesar's.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20122	Given the refusal to accept the first amendment, the second one would give us absolutely no use. So I have to pull him out so fellow Miletic doesn't get in trouble. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20123	Thank you very much. The amendment of the respected warlord, Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20124	The Government shall not accept this amendment on the grounds that the provision of Article 87(1) shall apply. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia authorises the Government to regulate in its legislative activity issues from the Croatian Parliament's section of the Croatian Parliament, which gives this possibility to the Government, does not give authority to the Government to carry out the choice and appointment from the jurisdiction of the Croatian Parliament. Therefore, according to Article 2 of the final proposal of the Law, the Government could not even carry out those choices and appointments, and there is no basis for the regulation of such a restriction.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20125	Representative Stazic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20126	Yes, there is. In the applicable law which ceases to apply on the day of the adoption of this law, such a restriction exists. The Constitution is a principle act. Therefore, there will be no harm if we enter into this constitutional provision into a special law, unless the Government intends to violate the Law on the transfer of power and carry out the election and appointment from the jurisdiction of the Croatian Parliament after the disbandment of the Parliament, so that is the time of the existence of the technical government. So I'm surprised that you're refusing this amendment. There's no reason, you signed the whole bill, except for that very provision. I'm asking the vote on this.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20127	Yeah. I only know, like all of us, that the government will not and cannot and will not allow it to conduct elections and appointments that are in the part of the Croatian Parliament. Who's in favor of this amendment, please? You're looking for a vote. Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? I find that with 70, peace, please. I find that, with 77 votes in favour and 36 against the law in the text, as proposed by the Proposer, together with the amendments adopted. Ladies and gentlemen, we now have three draft laws relating to the service of the armed forces and the Defence Act - Final proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Service in the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, second reading of P.Z. No. 73 Proposer of the Government. Then - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Service Act in the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia – Proposer of the Club of Representatives LIBRA, first reading P.Z. No. 112 I also from the Club of Representatives LIBRE - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Defence Act – Proposer of the Club of Representatives Libre, first reading P.Z. No. 113 I propose that all three of these laws be held in a united debate, so that the representatives of the clubs have that 5-minute extension in the debate. Dear Representative Jozo Radoš, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20129	Mr. President, the two laws proposed by the Club of Representatives of the Libre are actually working out a legal one and the same idea. Therefore, it is quite logical that these two laws are discussed together, so that the debate should be brought together. However, the government's bill of law has nothing to do with it, even if it is nominal, so the same law has nothing to do with what is proposed in the draft law of the LIBRA and the Law on Armed Forces and the Law on Defence. So I think there's no need and it's not logical to connect all three points. And of course, it is very logical to combine the last two points, or other two points in which our bill should be considered.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20130	You have the right of your colleague, Radoš, to point 16 and 17, so your proposals for the law refer to identical matter. But I just assumed that maybe it's the economics of time, because this has to do with the armed forces, too, I think you'll have, when the debate says whoever's talking about these two will have a chance to speak up, and yet I advise that we go to a united debate. Okay. I think most of it's for that, so we'll try to use it rationally. I beg the Secretary of Defense and before that, the debate, this first law in the second reading, is two laws first reading. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislative, Internal Policy and National Security. In the first Law on Service to the Armed Forces of the Vlada proposal. In the second Law on the Service of the Armed Forces, the Committees on Legislatives, Internal Policy and National Security and the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities. And also with the amendment and addition of the Law on Defence, the Club of Representatives LIBRA, the same Committees on Legislatives, Internal Policy and National Security and the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities. I ask for this first proposal of the Law on Service in the Armed Forces, where the proponent of the Government, Defence Minister Berislav Roncevic, is to further explain the proposal, please welcome the ministers.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20131	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, by signing minimum terms that must be met by active military personnel to propose their retirement, the Supreme Commander's decision creates a basis for stricter selection of retirement by the Supreme Commander's decision. Retired by the decision of the Supreme Commander for the Government as a Proposer, we consider it an extraordinary event, a retired active military person is exercising the right to an age pension as if he had achieved 40 years of retirement, so we wanted to establish the criteria by proposing this Law in this area so far undefined that has caused numerous controversy in part of the Croatian public, according to which this retirement could be achieved under the proposal of the Minister of Defence. Article 197(1), second subparagraph The Armed Forces Service Act is prescribed by the authority of the Supreme Commander to decide on the retirement of active military personnel who are particularly responsible for the promotion of the Armed Forces or for other important reasons. In accordance with the provisions of the Law on the Rights of Pension Insurance of Active Military Persons, Police Officers and Authorised Officials, an active military person, retired by the decision of the President of the Republic as Supreme Commander, shall exercise the right to an age pension of at least 40 years, regardless of the fulfilment of other prescribed conditions. The proposed addition of the Law on Service in the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia prescribes minimum conditions to be met by an active military person in order to be proposed by the defence minister. The two conditions were developed as a general condition that each active military person must meet for at least 10 years of active military service, 6 months of participation in the Homeland War and the minimum annual assessment is due in the last 4 years. Additional conditions depend, such as, depend on years of completed retirement training, that the way, that a person with less years of retirement training must meet stricter additional criteria. After the debate was held in the first reading, we looked at the comments that would be evident for the implementation of this law, and there will be no need to provide additional resources in the state budget and the differences in what is pointed out in the debate we have observed the comments on the clarity of the proposed text in the first reading debate. Related to the fact that they are nomotechnically reorganised, that they are more clearly defined and logically complex these additional conditions are related to the completed years of retirement internship and the sequence of importance of the distinctions and other recognitions which are highlighted in the special law, the Law on Features and Recognitions. Active military personnel shall be classified from the group according to the age of age of retirement and other additional conditions shall be specified for each group in particular. Proposals and opinions which the Government has not adopted have proposed that the prescribed legal conditions for proposing also apply to the Supreme Commander when it independently decides on the retirement of an active military person, particularly credited with the promotion of the Armed Forces for another important reason. In view of the specific constitutional powers and responsibilities of the High Commander of the Armed Forces, we are of the opinion that, for the time being, there is no need for additional legal criteria to restrict its right to decide, on the basis of its own judgment, on the basis of a decision on the retirement of an active military person, particularly responsible for the promotion of the Armed Forces or for another important reason. We believe that there is no danger of abuse of that right because the commander-in-chief is responsible for the situation in the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia and also as President of the Republic for his actions he carries additional political responsibility before the Croatian public. Second opinion, that and minimum conditions of 10 years of active military service... certain, the proposal to fully abolish the proposed provisions and the proposal that the conditions of at least 6 months of participation in the Homeland War change so that the norm would be applicable to those who did not participate in the Homeland War have not been accepted for the reason that, starting with a valid law in which, in order to retire from the Supreme Commander's decision, no minimum duration of the military service has been laid down so far, we can say that this proposal complements the Law even 10 years from now, tightening the conditions for retirement, but given the proposed cumulative, it is at least 6 months of participation in the Homeland War that the minimum requirement of the 10 years of military service will be gradually raised to the worse. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In other words, how the reconstruction goes, the reorganisation of the Armed Forces, will necessarily need to be continued and amended by following this provision, following the course of change. Another important fact is that in the future when the Armed Forces no longer participates in the Homeland War, their natural outflow, they will die alone by the decision of the Supreme Commander. We believe that these norms should not be applied today or in the future to those active military persons who did not participate in the Homeland War, and we have in some way respected those opinions of parliamentary representatives who believe that the said provision should be abolished as a relic of the past. In view of the start of the process of establishing a system of two careers in which a military person, in which the military career for the largest part of the active military personnel ends after 20 or 25 years of service, the Institute shall grant old-age pensions by decision of the Supreme Commander with the right to retire, which shall be calculated by... 40 years of retirement will become completely inappropriate in the near future. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Currently in the active military service, we have a large number of people who already have more than 30 years of retirement experience and are as such potential beneficiaries of an age pension and as responsible individuals from the Homeland War and potential pensioners by decision of the Supreme Commander. Something about a proposal to cover the prescribed conditions and situations where the tighting procedures are not yet under way but they can quickly be Article 169. The Law on the Service in the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia is prescribed that the strict procedure for a major offense is already in motion... So, before the actual procedure was initiated, the formulation to become a strict procedure would have been set too wide, would have opened the possibility of subjectivity and created legal uncertainty. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The opinion that medals cannot be a criterion for retirement because it creates an inequality of citizens under the law. All citizens under equal terms and conditions shall have the possibility of awarding medals or retirement under the decision of the Supreme Commander and the possibility of regulations only for persons of the military, particularly responsible for the promotion of the Armed Forces or for other important reasons related to their personal contribution to the active military services. All citizens under equal conditions can enter the active military service and develop professionally as active military personnel. During a military career, an active military person may be awarded medals in order to achieve exceptional results... This motivates individuals and units for further development and promotes their combat preparedness. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The proposal to supplement the entry into the Pension Insurance Act, not the Law on the Service of the Armed Forces of the Institute of Retirement by a decision of the Supreme Commander only partially bound and by the Pension Insurance Act, since that law provides for a way of calculating pensions and the essence of the Institute is linked to the conditions of termination of the military service, in particular to responsible personnel who do not have the possibility of further professional development.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20132	Thank you. On behalf of the Club of Libre, I would like to ask the honourable representative, Jozo Rados, to explain on behalf of the Club of Libre, the proposals of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Service in Armed Forces, no. 112 and a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Defence of Law No. 113. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20133	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So even if it's two completely different legal proposals one is a small administrative one, the other is actually a major procedure in the entire military system. I therefore agreed with the authority of the President of the Parliament to conduct a united debate. I didn't object to that, but I will only speak on behalf of the motion for a bill to abolish mandatory military service. And I will speak on behalf of the Club's representative Libra. So speaking of the bill of defence and, at the same time, the Law on Armed Service in the Armed Forces is only about the implementation of one institute through two laws. I will speak therefore, of course, united, only of those most important aspects I will not, of course, enter into the details of the administrative implementation of that law. It's, of course, in the very text of the law enough to say it in a good way. In Croatia, the issue of abolishing compulsory military service opened several years ago. Four years ago, it was said and a public debate began. I will talk to her later about what happened not only in Croatia during those four years but what happened in the world in this sense. But long ago, 15 years ago, security circumstances have changed that have led to a new different approach to compulsory military service. The fall of the Iron Curtain and the end of the bloc's division of Europe, which of course reflected the overall world policy, began new trends and in the security relationship with the security of the countries, but also the attitude of citizens towards the security of the country. So the result of all this is that the fall in block tensions is a general trend in the reduction of military forces. The past 10 or 15 years of military forces in Europe have been a reduction in each country. From 10 to 50% and this trend of reduction continues. And there is no reason to expect that the military force in Europe and the world will not continue to shrink. In parallel, the military deadline is reduced, military service is reduced. It began to decrease in the 1990 ’ s, and then it began to stop. So the first years of this century have been abolished in most countries for the last few years. Paralyzed with all that in the world and then, of course, in Croatia, there is a different attitude of citizens towards the obligation to defend the Homeland. When there are no such strong threats as before, when complete or dominant policy in Europe and in the world is marked by security integration, then the sensitivity of people towards the service of such an outdated institution as compulsory military service is also changed. And all of this, of course, also contributes to the fact that, as a democratic gain of the modern world, an objection is introduced to advice and then to civil service of the military term. So most countries, in fact, by introducing a civil service military deadline, face additional difficulties in compulsory military service. Civil service of the military deadline has destroyed the traditional, mandatory service of the military deadline, for example, that in one Spain only 25% of only one quarter of military officials are determined to classic military service, and a full 75% for civilian service of the military deadline. Similar processes are elsewhere in the world. In Slovenia, it was as much as 50%, in Germany 30%, in Croatia, in these arguments that I gave were spoken about 30%, and last year according to the gun's answer to one parliamentary question, the number is moving around about half of all military service obligations. And so that's one trend that suggests that most countries are actually moving towards abolishing either she's gone or she's already taken that step. Cancelling mandatory military service. Under new circumstances, security challenges are new. They no longer threaten one block at a time, no longer in the event of a potential global conflict, today's most common and most serious threat to world peace security is terrorism. Counterterrorism cannot be fought by hand soldiers, the fight against terrorism requires highly trained, well-trained and well-equipped soldiers. Highly motivated and ready to face the Tariqs which all the hand soldier is not able to do. So these are the new circumstances why this trend of abolishing compulsory military service is taking place. One of the important reasons is the budget cuts. In a world where there is no longer such a direct threat, the general trend is to cut the defence budget. This happened in the Republic of Croatia, first of all, it was about 4% of the gross national product, so it fell to slightly more than 2% of the gross national product in recent years. And this year, the defence stake, or budget of the Ministry of Defence, fell below 2% of the gross national product of the Republic of Croatia. And in conditions where you have increased demands on the professional composition of the armed forces, then the redundancies for the manual service of the military are falling and this leads to the essential unquality of that institution's manual service. So that's why the question arises in the first place between the institutions of manual service. All of this refers to the world, or Europe, I have talked about it so far. I didn't say anything specific about Croatia. Everything with stronger meaning concerns the Republic of Croatia. The Republic of Croatia reduced the military period of 10 months to 6 months by the 2000 measure, mandatory military service. And civilian service for 15 months for eight months. So she almost cut him in half. That's when we became a state with almost the shortest military time in the world. And what is particularly interesting and important is that the difference between civil service and regular military service is reduced to only two months. At the time of the adoption of this law, there were proposals for the two institutes and the two time obligations to be fully equal. What would happen to the response of soldiers to the regular service of the military deadline that is exactly equal to the duration of the war is not even to be talked about, and that too little difference that we have today is such that it causes more and more people to be interested in civil service of the military deadline, and that as a state and as a society, as an administration, we have not properly arranged civil service of the military deadline. In particular, civil service of the military term is intended for objecting to the conscience. We don't have a way, there's still no way of verifying if it's really an objection of conscience, so you have cases that it's actually just an excuse for not serving a regular military deadline. So in his first more serious encounter with the state, the citizen faces the state as being unsolicited, that one is declaring and that it behaves differently and that the citizen is in fact showing that the state can be played and deceived. This, of course, leaves a very bad impression on citizens especially at this age of life, not to mention that civil service of the military deadline has not been worked out at all at all, so that it generally takes place in places of residence, that the circle of institutions in which it is served is actually very narrow, and that the possibility of supervision and all those obligations that the state has towards civil service of the military period is actually almost completely neglected. So soldiers at civil service don't get clothes from the state, they don't get food, they don't get social security, they get health insurance, everything the state should give them, because it's serving one obligation to the state. Therefore, the commitment of the state to citizens should be the same. This is not the case, however, because in this way the state is also playing its obligations, and the citizens are playing their part, and all of this should be considered in some way that there are reasons for both institutions to survive in the first place. All this talk I said earlier is that there is no reason for survival for both institutions. The additional advantage of the Republic of Croatia compared to other countries, most countries or almost all countries in the world is the first thing that we have developed a professional army. We have developed a professional army bigger than we need. According to the process of reducing the professional composition of the Armed Forces that should have ended up to 25 thousand, and as far as I know it is not yet complete, the Republic of Croatia will already find itself after this completed process before the new process of reducing the professional composition of the Armed Forces because it is, so is the world trend, these are frameworks if we want to have a quality army we cannot have such a large army and that is what is our special advantage over other countries. Other transition countries had to create a professional army and invest money in the creation of a professional army. We've created a professional army in the context of the Homeland War in the war of 90 to 96, and today we still have, even today, an even greater professional army than we do by all rules, by standards that we'll probably respect for our own interests, not because of what NATO or anyone else imposes on us. So we need to talk about reducing the professional army. Thus, the manual army is seen in this context as a total unnecessary ballast. And another dimension that is important, and it will appear, important especially in the discussion of this in the argument, which is that Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, remains unpreserved, which is of course not true. The Republic of Croatia has a large security reserve primarily from people who participated in the Homeland War, several hundred thousand people with military experience who are making up a few dozen years' worth of security reserves in the event of some sudden changes in international relations and other dimensions, the last ten years of regular military service have passed more than 100 thousand young people and it is again also a large security reserve of the Republic of Croatia, greater than we have in all the standards that apply now in these recent years than we need. There is therefore no danger of any threat to the Republic of Croatia, because we have a major security reserve. Of course, the reserve and the basis of what is proposed by this law will also be restored. So these are the reasons why the Republic of Croatia is a country that could have taken that step before others, unfortunately we did not. Many countries that were in a much more unfavourable situation before us did so four years ago and made decisions to abolish compulsory military service. Just one short comparative display in that sense. In the past five years, the military deadline has been lifted by Italy, France, Spain, Portugal, Slovenia and these processes have either been completed or completed in the last phase of this year, and decisions have been taken five years or four years ago, and decisions have been taken by Hungary, the Czech Republic, Slovakia and Ukraine. Countries that were in a much harder situation because they had to raise money to create a professional army, and we're giving out money for something that's a substitute and we don't need it at all in this case. And what exactly is being substancefully said, so this was an explanation, this law suggests? This law proposes to abolish the obligation of regular military service, but no military obligation is lifted. The military obligation remains the same for all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia. This means that the state has the right to invite anyone at any time to fulfil its military obligation either in the form of training or something else, depending on the circumstances, and equally every citizen must respond because it remains an obligation. Only the obligation to serve the military regularly is abolished. Instead, training is introduced for professional soldiers who last nine months, based on a public competition and the basis of selecting those who are the best, who have the most motive and of course the best physical and mental assumptions for such a job. And how many such people will be a year, will there be a thousand, two, three or five, depending on what security assessments will be, the possibilities of the Republic of Croatia in this regard, and of course all of these are related to the percentage of the renewal, rejuvenation of the Republic of Croatia's troops. We have a situation today with our professional army which is completely different from what the professional army in the world is. This law stipulates that the last professional contract for 30 months can be concluded with a man, a citizen or a citizen who is 27 years old. That means a professional soldier can't be more than 30 years old. Today our professional soldiers are probably after these reductions we have spent over the past years, about 35 or more years old, and the average age of a professional soldier is below 25 years in the world. After two or three professional contracts he becomes an officer or officer of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia or goes into reserve, but that is how you can recruit young, younger reserves, reservations from people who have passed the professional army, have ten years of experience as soldiers, and that would be the right reserves, of course its size should be decided depending on the circumstances. So that's all the reasons, that's all the changes that this, this bill is making. Finally, only a few comments, or comments by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and arguments often referred to in public as arguments against this law. It's said to be premature. That argument is completely arbitrary. I can also say that the proposal was mature for adoption four years ago, and today it is too late. That's no argument. Based on what indicators can this law be said to be premature? If we're looking at comparative relationships then it's not premature, then it's too late. If you look at other reasons, therefore, the analysis of the world's security relations, relations in our neighborhood, processes, new security threats, then he's not particularly premature, but unfortunately in our circumstances he's too late. It is said that the professional army is more expensive than the manual army. Of course, but it's not about us and our case. That would be an argument if we were to be replaced by our army by a professional army, and that's not what this is about. It is the fact that the manual army is completely abolished and that those savings that will be made will be transferred to the construction of the professional army. And the third argument to abolish is against this study. This study has become a famous and phantom study. According to the Parliament's decision, the government was due to submit by 30 June of last year a breakdown and proposals to abolish mandatory military service, which the government did not do. Then a decision was made to conduct a study on the professionalisation of the Croatian Army by the end of November last year, and the study has not yet appeared. It's supposed to be over. I've been looking for her as an agent, and I've been given an explanation that it's a study on the making of a study, and it's just as well that a public hearing committee has been set up. Of course, the study can be quality and should have professional backgrounds, but often such studies serve as an excuse for making a decision or for making a decision. Often, those who write such studies actually assume what they are looking for, and often they are so that you can figure out whatever you want from that study. Enough relevant data, an analysis to make such a decision at this highest political level may have anyone who understands these issues, no study is required. Of course, the study needs to answer some other questions. How many professional soldiers we need, etc., at which rate we will go to rejuvenation of soldiers of professional composition, but not for a fundamental decision. For a fundamental decision, what this law says is enough. Therefore, I, ladies and gentlemen, colleagues and colleagues invite you to carefully consider this law, that if you do not agree with the law to say what your arguments are, because the Republic of Croatia, after reducing the budget of the Ministry of Defence by 500 million kuna, has no money left for modernising the professional component of the Armed Forces, and so we lose, we lose needlessly. We lose money, we lose energy, we lose young people who might be educated and able to work and thus contribute to the country. These are therefore reasons why this issue should be seriously considered even though we have already missed the past four years, when we could have done so without difficulty, and in the interest of the Republic of Croatia, this year and next year are indeed the last years in which it should be done, because this is not a weakness but a strengthening of the armed readiness, defence readiness of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20134	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to see it? President of the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security, Honored Representative Ivan Jarnjak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20135	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. I'd read the board's opinion immediately for all three laws, so if I didn't read the arguments, I'd just like to read the conclusions. So, the opinion of P.Z. No 73, the Law on Service in the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, which is proposed by the Government, supported the opinion delivered, the position of the Government of the Republic of Croatia's representative and decided to propose to the Croatian Assembly the adoption of a law supplementing the Law on Service in the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the text as proposed by the legislator. When it comes to law P.Z. No 112, so the proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Service in the Armed Forces supported the opinion and position of the President of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, as well as the delivered opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and unanimously decided to propose a conclusion to the Parliament, the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Service in the Armed Forces is not accepted, for the reasons set out in this report. And when it comes to law P.Z. No 113, the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Defence, supported the President of the Government of the Republic of Croatia's position as well as the delivered opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and unanimously decided to propose a conclusion to the Croatian Parliament: the Amendment Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Defence Act is not accepted, for the reasons set out in the explanation of this report. You have the reports of the board before you. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20136	Thank you very much. The Committee on Law, Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities. We're going to a club debate. HSP counseling club. Dear Representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20137	Your Honor, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Minister. The club of HSP representatives wants first of all to remind the Final Proposal for a Law on the Completion of the Law of Service in the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia that it is the consequence of the case of the "Cacacic" and that the Croatian Assembly is being brought into the position of some arbitration for retirement in the case of Cacia, and in the case of probably the secretary of General Stipetic and some similar cases, because in such cases, when it came to this, it was said that there were no standards, according to which the president, the commander-in-chief could retire, and then the legislative proposal was quickly made. The HSP Club reminds again that the presidential pensions were introduced in 95 by the Law on Service in the Armed Sagas of the Republic of Croatia, which was adopted unanimously in the Croatian Parliament in March 95, the only abstention in this law was today's President Stjepan Mesic. And we, our expert team really found that there was no abuse in the application of that law of a large number I mean retirement in so-called. Presidential pensions. It was falsely said that the late President Tudjman shared it with his hand and hat. The late President Tudjman retired only 104 members of the armed forces, meaning they received a presidential pension. The number that the late President Tudjman retired 300 and something refers to retirement as today's retirement for the surplus members of the armed forces, means they don't need armed forces. And that was then under the Retirement invalidity Insurance Act, so these members didn't get presidential pensions, they were regular disability pensions when they were settled, and we know how many armed forces they were at the time of the Homeland War and that they were supposed to go down. It's not clear to us today either. Why is it going to change now in a way that, instead of going under the regulations that he's the Commander-in-chief, he's passed a sublegal regulation in which he can determine exactly the criteria that a defence minister can propose to him for retirement. That would be legally pure. And why now we as the Croatian Parliament are here prescribing whom the defence minister can propose to the Supreme Retirement Commander. Namely, it remains, which I am not against that provision that the Commander-in-chief himself may be self-initiatively retired. It's his legal right, and I don't mind. But why do we as the Croatian Parliament now prescribe whom the Defence Minister can propose to the Supreme Commander, and yet he does not have to accept his proposal, he always has the opportunity not to accept his proposal and still remains the part that he has the right to self-initiative. Therefore, if we want to regulate this in a way that needs to be regulated, then, and we can put that part in place and determine the criteria for both the Supreme Commander and the Minister of Defence, but not just for the Minister of Defence. And I would really pray probably not to say this when these remarks are explained why this proposal is not accepted if it is legally regulated to establish and measure for the Supreme Commander, but only for the Minister of Defence, that the Government is careful about what is written in its, says, it is not accepted this proposal that the Commander-in-chief, we are of the opinion that there is no danger of the abuse of that right, because the Supreme Commander is responsible for the situation in the armed forces as well as the President of the Republic for his actions bearing additional political responsibility before the Croatian public. That's all true. But does the government then question the Secretary of Defense when giving whom he can propose to the Supreme Commander? Right? If this is read. So there is trust in the Supreme Commander, okay. He was elected in the way of presidential elections, but there is no reason for the government to doubt its minister, I have no doubt, for example, the Croatian Party of Rights Club. So it's for me, and for us first, it's not a solution. Why should we get involved in the case of Chachia, in the case of a secretary when it could be settled by sublaw, if it's settled by law, then we put each other in those standards. And I'm particularly bothered by the likes of some members and MPs here, why are they going for six months? Six months of participation in the Homeland War. It really needs to go far more, at least 24 months to put into law. You know what six months means? For six months, there is also someone who is now in the active military service that could, for example, have been admitted into the armed forces from January 1st 2006 to June 30th 96, no acts of war, nothing, but has the status of defenders because that peaceful reintegration was not carried out within that deadline. Therefore, it must stand there that it is at least 24 months. Next, what's important in this whole thing is to say. We still can't be putting the equivalent between a group of high-rises and two monuments of one participation in peacekeeping missions. It doesn't go in the same basket together. We know for ourselves that at this point we only have three living things that are the bearers of the highlands, and these are the meanings, King Peter Krešimir IV, so only three are alive, that is Martin Špegelj, Tus and General Stipetic. And they're all three retired. And we know why King Kresimir's high order is given. Therefore, it is hardly possible for anyone to get more the order of King Peter Krešimir IV, and that is what we said both last time and I and Mr. Kosic. Furthermore, it is said that this will not go to the burden of the state budget. How it won't work, if any new pensions are made, right? It comes on the burden of the state budget, as the Croatian Pensions Institute is providing funds in the state budget. Therefore, that fact is not correct. Secondly, what's most important to us at this point. So in a proposal like this, we can't accept it now, and the HSP Club won't vote. But if the part of the amendment relating to that part is accepted, or if the Government decides that it will be resolved by the sublaw of the Supreme Commander, then we are in favour of that solution. But we are warning here and we have submitted this final proposal for the Service Act in the Armed Forces of Two Amendments. The second is, or the first amendment, a very important amendment. According to article 166. The law on service in the armed forces that I am about to read to you says that a military person is deprived of the rank if by a powerful verdict he is sentenced to unconditional imprisonment for more than three years for a criminal act committed with purpose. Article 4 states that the same law is a military person, an active military person, a towel, a reserve, a cadet. Given this provision of the law, by law enforcement at this time, General Blaskic should be left without rank. General Blaskic should be left without rank, because he is legally, unfortunately, sentenced 9 years in prison. So, that's why we're going with the amendment. Because, in our opinion, it's about acquired rights based on the merits of war and that it can't be questioned by taking an act for someone who's acquired an act based on military knowledge, military skills, and that in the Homeland War. Therefore, we propose an amendment to, firstly, that the provisions of paragraph 1 of the second subparagraph of this Article should not apply to persons who have acquired an act in the Homeland War. And the general confiscation of an act has acquired the right. The late President Tudjman was against taking an act. When we were doing the first version of the Law of Service in the Armed Forces, because he left himself without the political will of the former state. The late General Cervenko also took his rank from the former state. There's a lot of people like that. It's an act acquired by law. So that's one acquired... It's the same variant that you're now taking away someone's degree in graduate school from another or some other degree in college, or starting to take away people's IDs, so it all belongs to one group. And I think we should react here if no possibility is allowed. The Secretary of Defense tells me, but he's not saying he's an active military person. It's not an active military person, but it's misspelled. And there's still a possibility, let's say, if it were written precisely that the reserver, means the retired general is not even a military person at the moment, but it should be... write. [[/the speaker doesn't understand.]] But there's a possibility that someone could call him tomorrow, one day as a security guard to carry out the military service and take away his rank. So can we let that happen? I'm sure we can't let that happen. Therefore, we are asking, not only to accept these Amandans what we have proposed, but we are asking for the Government to come out, we have prepared our entire Act of Service in the Armed Forces to enable the formation of the armed forces in the manner that the Constitution says Croatia has a small and effective armed force that is equipped, trained to carry out all tasks. So it's time, so first we'll see what the total state is. We hope to succeed in this House during this session to discuss the report on the situation in the armed forces or the implementation of defence preparations in the country, and this will be an incentive for us to make the right proposal. That is why we will not support the proposal of LIBRA in the sense that at this moment it is going to abolish the obligation to serve the military deadline and share the government's opinion that it is really premature. At this point, it is premature to abolish the obligation to serve the military term. We are in favour of abolishing military service but only when economic opportunities are acquired that Croatia can have armed forces, that it can pay them because Croatia is not ready to go professionalising at this time. We know for ourselves, Mr. Jozo spoke correctly how long it took Italy, how long it took Germany, how long it took for other countries when they went gradually into the obligation to abolish military service. It took them a long time. France has even delayed several times, Italy has delayed but we know what the economic power of a French, one Italian, and similar to one Croatia. We need to build an armed force to protect the Croatian state and then, with economic growth, we will likely be in a position to realise this part. It is right that Mr. Rados that the situation regarding handcuffs is catastrophic, that their standards from day to day are getting worse in terms of personal hygiene and everything else because the Ministry of Defence doesn't have enough resources and we also know that all those who went to join NATO had to increase funds. Therefore, if for all that is required, let's say NATO's accession to the Alliance must be done a lot to get that part, in order to officially join. So, briefly, we've given amendments and we're staying at our point of view. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20138	Thank you. On behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community MP Krešimir Ćosic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20139	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen! Here, we have two different laws on the agenda, two different problems, two different topics. I certainly think it would be wise to integrate it for purely rational reasons of saving time. Here, first a few words on the final draft law supplementing the Law on Service in the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, which has been sent by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Act of 22 July 2004. A few words about the reasons why this law is passed. Although it's pointed out I'll repeat. They shall endeavour to lay down minimum conditions to be met by the military personnel to propose their retirement by a decision of the Supreme Commander. In this way, the foundation should be created for, I stress, a stricter selection of retirement by decision of the Supreme Commander and this goal is indeed commendable, necessary and important. So, stricter retirement selection. Retired by the Supreme Commander's decision is an extraordinary event. The retired person is exercising the right to retirement as if he had achieved 40 years of retirement training a great and significant privilege that only those who deserve it can gain and gain. These proposed legal conditions are therefore defined in such a way that already in the proposal process, means in the process of proposing by the defence minister a strict selection. Here's what this mechanism of strict selection looks like. I will read part of Article 1. Therefore, by virtue of this law, the Minister of Defence for Retirement referred to in paragraph 1 of subparagraph 5 of this Article may propose an active military person who has at least 10 years of active military service and at least six months of participation in the Homeland War. Six months of participation in the Homeland War is not part of what we can consider a strict selection. However, these are only the general conditions. What I would like to highlight in particular and to analyze a little is the additional conditions. In point 1, it reads "For a person with an completed retirement period from 10 to 32 years in order to obtain these retirement conditions by the President of the Republic, it must have a single medal from the Group of the High Order.", it's okay. Further "or awarded three medals from the group of order". And it's okay that if we stick to the system, if we believe in the system, then those traits of the grand order and the group of order belong only to those who were particularly responsible but are not done with this item 1 but it says "or". So either a group of high order or a group of order still "or two monuments". Gentlemen, two monuments, that's the Homeland War Memorial or the Homeland Thanksgiving Memorial, they've got thousands of people not to say hundreds of thousands of people, and there's the problem. They're not strict, they're not selective criteria. These are not criteria that belong especially to the merits. So the award of two monuments and the commendation of the commander-in-chief is equally valued as a medal from the group of high order or three medals from the group of order. Therefore, I believe and hope that this is just a mistake, probably a mistake from logical algebra, and I believe that this failure and this little thing will be removed and, in that sense, I will propose that with the amendment retaining and respecting the objectives defined here and insisting that the strictest conditions are imposed specifically on those who do not have enough work experience, means for persons of 10 years and six months of active military service, and if that is so, with the honours of the group of high order or group of order, I think that everything is fine and that those persons belong to those who are responsible for receiving a presidential pension but not those who have 10 years of retirement, who have six months of participation in the Homeland War and two monuments assigned. Therefore, I hope that this error will be removed and that we will get really a law that will be selective, which will be strict, which will respect those especially responsible because in this way we respect the value and in this way respect the Homeland War, in this way we respect people who have made a remarkable contribution to the creation of the Croatian state, unlike those whose contributions we also need to appreciate and respect who have received monuments of both Homeland War and Homeland War, but these people who have sat in defense offices or elsewhere in some offices cannot really have the right to a presidential pension. That's one aspect of this problem. Two, I think it's just as important, and I want to point it out. These are the financial consequences. We, when we adopt laws, are obliged to state in every law the extent of the assessment and the resources needed to implement such laws. The position here to implement this law will not be necessary to provide additional resources in the state budget. It doesn't have to be true because if this condition is accepted on two monuments in addition to what I said before, it doesn't have to be a few people, but it can be hundreds, and then that number really isn't irrelevant in the structure of the state budget, in a budget that's related to the corresponding ministries and I believe that this problem will be removed and we'll get really one valuable respectable, useful law. The second topic is importantly different down there, deserves special attention but due to the shortness of time that is acceptable at this moment, given that we will very soon discuss as it stands in this agenda about the situation in the Armed Forces and all those problems that are related to today's reconstruction, transition, modernisation, personal affairs, NATO accession, etc., debate much more. A few words, therefore, on the draft law and amendments to the Supplement Act submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Club of Representatives of the LIBRA. Here's what I'll say next. The fundamental laws of each state, particularly important laws, laws representing the pillar of the national security system require serious and systematic proceedings before their discussions at plenary sessions of the Assembly, which means that we were obliged to do everything possible to achieve certain conditions for such a law to be discussed in this Parliament. Certainly serious debates will follow but the bill which was submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Club of Representatives of the Libre in the Croatian Parliament does not satisfy the basic conditions that I mentioned, which is a quality professional debate, a quality professional basis. Whether or not it is late, but the quality of the profession's position must be defined, and in this case it is not done and therefore, for these reasons, it is certainly unacceptable to discuss this Act and the HDZ Club, not only for these formal procedural reasons but I will say later and for some objective reasons it cannot support this Act. The suspension of compulsory military service is said in the Proposer Report is a trend, and it is a trend and we will respect this trend and the Republic of Croatia will certainly one day when conditions for this will have a professional army but unfortunately for a number of reasons these conditions have not been obtained. Of course, I'm not talking about the formal one, but the essential one, and I'm going to say a few words about it. The aim of this Act of Service in the Armed Forces as well as the Defence Act refers to the abolition of mandatory military service and service in the professional composition of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia. In order for that to happen, certain conditions must be met, and we will certainly discuss these conditions more soon. The wider social environment and wider social assumptions for the existence of exclusively professional armies in the Republic of Croatia are not met for a whole series of reasons. I'm going to say one, gross national income per capita, the level of separation for defence, one aspect, a quality, a good professional army in these conditions, and with this GDP per capita with this kind of budget, we can't have. We can have a professional army formally but have a professional army that is capable of performing its tasks effectively and quality in all possible situations where the Republic of Croatia can be found, today we do not have and will not be able to have so soon. That's one aspect. The other one. Certainly all of what is said about the trend and the trends of abolishing military service, the mandatory military deadline is fact and fact that happens mainly in developed countries, in developed democracies. The moment when the Republic of Croatia develops democracy and has all those institutions that form part of developed democracies from the Armed Forces Committee and one more complete awareness of the role and place of Armed Forces in society, then we will also have that condition satisfied before making a decision on the full professionalisation of the Croatian Army. Third, today's state of technical equipment of the Croatian Army is unfortunately at a low level from a whole series, both of which I would say the greatest measure of objective reasons. We were arming ourselves during the Homeland War in the conditions in which we were, the terms of the embargo, the conditions of improvised production, the conditions that did not allow us to have that power in a technique that is very important, is not crucial but is important for a small, professional army. As a man who created this army and who participated in the Homeland War and who probably should in some of that and understand can say that from this technical and technological aspect we rely on a professional army today alone in these conditions. Finally, it is not only a matter of available techniques of modern or outdated weapons and military equipment but also of available infrastructure for training and training of professional soldiers. And this type of infrastructure that is extremely expensive has not yet been established in the Republic of Croatia. Furthermore, in order to have quality not only military, in order to have quality and professional officers, we will have to have a part of the infrastructure that will guarantee the quality education of the officers and officers of the Croatian Army because we still have this system in the conditions of the transistors without clear concepts and do not want to prolong this opportunity. Many conditions need to be created for the Republic of Croatia to accept the Law on the abolition of the military service obligation and to have a purely professional army. For this we will have to wait for the proper time and we will have to do everything to make the conditions that I spoke about and part of them I just mentioned meet. I would also like to emphasise this Law further, as stated here in the explanation of Article 1 of the novice obligation and the obligation to serve the military deadline, the obligation to serve in the professional wartime composition of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia is introduced. How? The obligation is introduced as stated here in a public competition. So the bill abolishes recruitment and introduces a public tender as the main way of collecting interested persons to serve in the professional composition of the Armed Forces, thus talking about military obligation and talking about public competition obligations and public competition are things that are incompatible and incompatible with each other. I said and I repeat. Changes in such character cannot be done anymore or cannot be done only for certain political interests and reasons, commercial ones but must be based on serious analyses and studies, discussions that are yet to be held. And creating conditions for such a decision to create a professional army on the abolition of a mandatory military deadline to be in the interest of the Republic of Croatia and to ensure the quality and efficiency of the defence system. And I'm closing. The quality of implementation of the model regardless of what it will be called combined or professional is far more important than the very organisational model and form that we will adopt. Quality of the implementation model and organisational form are two different things. Today we have problems regarding the quality of service in the manual composition and the quality of training of professionals and these are facts and facts relating to quality can hardly be changed solely by laws. They change in a different way with a better infrastructure, a bigger budget, selecting the best quality people in the way we did during the Homeland War. If they had not been selected at all levels, the proven people of the Croatian Army and the Croatian state would not have been able to defend the Republic of Croatia and today we would not be in the situation in which we are. For all these reasons, the HDZ Club cannot support such a law, this moment, because of all these remarks, but certainly we all make sure that one day we reach modern standards not only in the defence “menagement”, but also in the structure of the armed forces, but for that we will have to create conditions and wait, anyway, not for several years, very probably for many years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20140	Thank you. The club of representatives of the HSS, the respected representative of Ante Markov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20141	Dear Mr. President and Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! The final proposal for a law supplementing the law on service in the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia, the Croatian Peasant Party Club is already in the light of this bill which can be interpreted as a result of something, but can be said to be a function of the aim of better regulation of certain matter and quality. The HSS Club has already shown in some way that this debate and the legal basis in the nature of the president's retirement, and there are no serious or large reasons for this matter to be discussed for so long because it is a single institution, an institution of presidential pension, which, of course, is high moral and all that is involved in the proposal of one such decision, in some ways it is difficult to regulate in the minimum part, and it is difficult to reconcile through these normative lists to say: now it is fair, it is now fair, it is now for all equally available because it is in its character it is never. This law tries to prescribe what the defence minister should obviously do as a person in this context who is somehow less trusted because, since it is more prescribed certain normative actions that it is obliged to take into account when proposing, although it does not ultimately stop that final decision on the presidential pension. As a result, it could be assumed that there is no need to bring about such one, one or more amendments to this Law, but since the situation in which a society is located, the relationships prevailing in that society in any case require certain behaviours and coordinations that in that first part of what I said and cannot, and do not have grounds. Therefore, these prescribed minimum conditions for me to call them so can have my basis, but I would agree with colleagues who had previously spoken about it in the context of denying certain conditions that in some ways eliminate themselves, and then create too much space as we had and when there were no of these minimum conditions. That is why I think it is welcome to strengthen those elements that, depending on the pension internship, treat certain groups that can be proposed and strengthen the position of indeed this vertical which relys specifically on the Homeland War which absolutely has its basis and through these mentioned distinctions, but avoid those distinctions that there are thousands because that is why we are going to degrade this whole, the whole desire to set up a more high-quality presidential pension in a way. For this reason, the HSS Club also absolutely supports such a more precise indication that if we already want to impose certain frameworks on the Minister of Defence, it would be far more precise so to say more honestly, and thus the decision of the Supreme Commander would, of course, in his moral sense, have to be in line with these directions and in these frameworks that this law would thus give itself. So much for this bill. As for the bill on amendments and additions to the Defence Act, from the Club of Representatives of Libra, or about the intention resulting from these two laws, the HSS Club has always considered that Croatia is not an isolated island and that it must absolutely monitor all trends that are taking place in the world, that it must comply with the standards on which the modern armed forces of the wider and further environments are organised, reorganise, adapt, adapt their national, defence interests to the overall integrated interests, but also we have always underlined it, I hold that this is not some conservative thesis, that one, one culture and in the armed forces and way of life are also one of the elements that must always be present in the debate of such an important document as the regulation of relations is armed, in the armed forces. Of course, the fundamental objective of all the reconstructions, of all the proposals that arise, must come from one basic document. This document, of course, is a national security strategy, a defence strategy of the Republic of Croatia, and then, from these strategies, certain fundamental objectives in which society in its defence segment as a very important constitutional category of movement can also be implemented by certain laws that regulate a particular area. For this reason, the absolutely HSS Club has always been attached to the principle that not only does it need respect for other people's practices, but not just respecting trends that occur even though they are unquestionable, they must be accepted. But that the assessment of what the geopolitical position of the Republic of Croatia is today, what is the position of its armed forces, which are perspectives in this area, which are the assessments of the situation that is set, is very important and those in the strategy of defence and national security must give a very clear and unequivocal answer, in which sense I will go and armed forces, in which sense will be reorganised by the armed forces and ultimately when the time will come to fully professionalise the Croatian army, when it is time to abolish mandatory military service and how we connect what we welcome in the proposal Libra, which is to maintain the military obligation of all citizens and when it is time to abolish mandatory military service. But I think that we have to stick to it in view of exactly the geopolitical circumstances, including the position and our history, which is why this military obligation of all citizens must be very clearly highlighted at the time when compulsory military service will not exist. And this military obligation must be the subject of a special debate and a special strategy that must be drawn in respect of both our environment and our practice, including our culture. And we fully support one such approach as is listed here, but we hold that at this point we simply don't have enough analytical evaluations, we don't have enough arguments to say in the next few months we're going to cancel mandatory service, we're going into further professionalization. And the question is clearly whether it is possible to achieve it in a short time. However, we continue to hold that from the basic document, which is the Strategy for the Defence of the Republic of Croatia, and the Strategy for National Security, as certain planning documents, that these efforts must be very clearly listed in them. And they can't be part of something waiting isn't in that basic document. That is why we stand for one whole procedure by supporting and welcoming all the ideas that the Libre Club has perceived here, because we believe that they represent a real basis for the future of the defence of the Republic of Croatia. The system of armed forces and society in general because it is unquestionable that most of the countries of this circle to which Croatia belongs have one such path. That's how the HSS Club will vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20142	Thank you. He's got a word on behalf of Club ID with a respected representative of Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20143	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, the Honorable Mr. Representatives. In this government's proposal of just one sentence, I think everything should be done I agree with Mr. Cosic here to avoid the situation so that we don't get into the future if I don't know the flight attendants or the waiters at the President of the Republic get a presidential pension. It's just out of time beyond logic. BUT I will no longer talk about this legal proposal, and I will talk about Libra’s legal proposal. The club IDS absolutely supports this bill signed by Mr Radoš, the IDS has since 97th immediately after the peaceful reintegration of Hrvatska renewed such a single legislative proposal given in the procedure and since then we have been constantly stressing the requirement for professional service of the military deadline or for the abolition of it, let us call it the manual service of the military deadline. I am aware of the facts and in 97 it was not possible to end military service. It was not possible in 2000 for all of these opportunities in the region, not likely this year either. But surely before Croatia enters NATO, and hopefully this will be possible in 2006, the military needs to be professionalised, with one word to end military service. Why? So because this trend of civil service in the military, in the Republic of Croatia takes such a measure that it is clearly necessary to draw a line under the current army structure and say who wants to be a professional soldier in a single small mobile well-trained Croatian army, so you will get a chance and the rest of you will not be able to get ahead of yourself or for the military, or for a civilian military deadline, because simply no longer will the law know the obligation to serve the military deadline. A short time ago, Mr Radoš mentioned that in one Spanish, Slovenia, the trend of civil service was 75% before the commitment was lifted. In the Republic of Croatia, we can freely say that in 2004, any other young man who has such an obligation will be predetermined for this type of military service. There are a few jobs in my court that the military, i.e. The government needs to carry out before that. We must do the same if the urbiet orbi admits that it has never been less singled out for an army in the Republic of Croatia than it was in 2004. I personally hold that it's good, this year's budget is secured somewhere 2% of gross social product. We're at the bottom of it by the separations in Europe. And that's good. It's not good on the other hand to be a little bit and cynical, which at this point almost doesn't fly any planes or any helicopters. Or better yet, to sail from your ports, not a single ship. We have from another very ancient police force, the final difference between civil service of the military deadline and the manual service of the military deadline, is only two months. So one serves a military term of six months, the other serves a military term of eight months. And in those months, neither of them are doing anything. These others have been standing for eight hours at some station, in some community, and that's absurd to me. If they want that kind of military service and I absolutely support it, then you should tell those guys you'll be serving it in hospitals, in nursing homes, in utility companies, in cemetery editing, you'll be taking part in some public works, wherever there's something physical to do. And not two of you, for example, are standing at a headquarters in the city of Buzet or in another municipality or county. For me, it's one word absurd. Let them work as waiters in the season, and then the restaurant owner will pay for something to the state. There's no labour force in Istria anyway. Let them work in the aforementioned companies, not to place a burden on themselves, on their parents, and on society as a whole. What I'm extremely afraid of when the army is due to serving this deadline military, it's gentlemen second, I claim that the most young people get hooked on drugs in the army. It's easier to get to that drug in the military than to know aspirin in pharmacies, and society has to take care of that moment. And mostly those who are head of the defence ministry in this case, Mr. Roncevic. But let's let it go now. Another thing I want is a 6-month deadline that is probably the shortest in Europe at this time or among the shortest in Europe. And that's why it needs to be abolished absolutely. Indeed, a military term of six months does not make sense, in six months it is not possible to master any sophisticated training. In six months these young men who spend in the army are only at the expense of the state and their families. I'm often approached by my parents, and they literally say, either be in the army or leave them at home, not every 7 days coming home, which is more the cost for families than that kids are at school outside of the apartment, their mothers are washing, I don't know, these clothes, etc., bring food with them to the army, and it really doesn't make sense anymore. What should also be done to determine the new formation of the Croatian Army that will be fully compatible with NATO's strategy or NATO's standard, that after that, I would say, the military will give up all those assets that it simply does not need at all. Here, first of all, I mean real estate. Let those already belong to a state or state or state, or they are state, to some operating body that will be able to function with local self-government or to belong to local self-government. This is how the army blocks the development of cities and municipalities. I only know about the pulse case that every 7th square of the property in that city, means land, owned by the Croatian military or Croatian state, and it is not natural and it should change. Until, on the other hand, the County of Istria as a unit of local self-government has one square metre, whether agricultural or forest, or so on. building or tourist land. It's just that gentlemen are blocking the development, and that's why I think it's necessary to do everything possible to put these properties into some public function as soon as possible. Finally, where a public facility is wanted, whether it's a playground, a school, a hall, I don't know a retirement home, a park, a road, etc. This should, without any compensation, be granted to local self-government, as well as to have the understanding that even with the compensation finally, if necessary, and I don't think they need to be met. So, the IDS is that the Croatian Army is formed as a professional army with a date of 1.1.2006. We are all aware that the threat of a two-block conflict has disappeared, and the Beslam in Russia has recently shown that manuals cannot deal with terrorism. Finally, just before, Mr. Radosh said, we have a huge security reserve, a young man who came out of the Homeland War. Meanwhile, from 95 to today, it has increased by 100,000 people serving a military term. It even mentions a number of 600,000 Homeland War fighters, which is amazing, because such an army could have reached Stalingrad, but no matter what those safe reserves there are and there is this capacity that can provide absolute security to this country, and finally, whoever is threatening us at this time. Once again, the IDS maintains that the Croatian Army should be formed as a professional army as of 1.1.2006. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20144	I thank the honourable representative. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the respected representative Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20145	Mr. Vice President, I must first say that I am concerned about Mr. Cain's behavior since yesterday towards today. He said that in the minority army, drug addicts gather, most people do drugs in the military. I don't know what he's talking about, it's totally untrue, so he throws a shadow at the command chamber, on the people who came out of the war. Well, I'm a member of the Armed Forces, and today someone can't be in the army if they're on drugs right now, and they're calling themselves temporarily incompetent, so we're not gonna listen to any lies and nonsense in this high house.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20146	Thank you. You're too late to correct an incorrect quote. On behalf of the Proposer...... I didn't see the replica. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] There's no replica on the club. There's no replica on the club. I know something about the Rules of Procedure. On behalf of the representative, the honourable representative, on behalf of the promoter, the esteemed representative, Jozo Radoš.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20147	The atmospheres are discussed, i.e. that some debate is being held here in the Croatian Parliament. [[You don't understand.]] Mr Kovacevic said the process is taking a long time. And it lasts and doesn't. The world’s experiences show both. For example, Slovakia, France, Italy made decisions and then the process lasted 5 years. But something completely different happened in Slovenia. Slovenia has made a decision that the process will last for 3 years, and then because a decision has been taken on the interests of soldiers or citizens, the young man has fallen drastically. All tried in a way to avoid serving a military term if it remained for years or two. And then the Slovenian authorities had to make a decision to reduce the process of abolition. Practically, this happened almost overnight in Slovenia due to these circumstances. I think that if we enter this process, similar problems will arise and we should think very carefully when we make a decision on how long it will take. I am personally on the point that it should be the current decision to avoid such problems. Mr. MP Ćosic spoke of that being a quality attitude of the profession. I agree, of course, on that, but I made it very clear what our studies on such things look like. That Mr. Cosic probably met himself with such studies. Sometimes the study doesn't actually say anything, it doesn't help anyone who wants to make a decision, because it only serves as an alibi for those who write the study. On the other hand, such studies serve only as an excuse for making a decision or for making a decision. It is not relevant for this fundamental decision. For a fundamental decision, however, it is the dominant political perception of what is happening. And I think that's enough for a decision like that, I've listed here seven undeniable, obvious facts. The first fact is the new security environment in the world in the last 15 years. Nobody slows it down. Thus, the end of the bloc's division and of course the security integration pursued by the vast majority of Europe's countries. So, it's not a dispute, it's no one here has disputed. It even concerns Serbia-Montenegro, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Macedonia, a space from which 15 years ago or before, but in some other way, the threat of the Republic of Croatia came. Bosnia and Herzegovina, Serbia-Montenegro, Macedonia is also seeking integration. They are members of the Partnership for Peace, NATO's Partnership for Peace, or it will be very soon. There's no dispute in their public that they're for that collective security system. Bosnia and Herzegovina has completely temporarily abolished the mandatory military service, not for strategic reasons, but for financial reasons. In Macedonia again for financial reasons, and I talked about it in the opening part, a military deadline can be bought. This is, of course, the extent to which this institution is now applied in the modern world. That was unimaginable 20 years ago, so you could buy out a military deadline. For various reasons in the Republic of Macedonia today you can come and buy out military service. Serbia-Montenegro, too, whose army is in complete collapse, and social processes are such that stronger trends and reductions in military service and its total abolition are increasing. Therefore, these are indisputable things, and I don't think there's any dispute between us. And that's very important for some judgment. Another thing in Croatia is the existence of a professional army. Croatia already has a professional army. We often say we need money. No, we created a professional army. We've got her, we're spending money on her. Therefore, those costs that have passed in recent years by Hungary, the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Poland, etc., we do not have that kind of costs. They made their own professional army out of 0, and we don't have to do that because we have a professional army and a professional army with military experience and a 10-year experience after the war, over. The third fact that no one disputes either is a general decline in the quality of the service of the manual army. No one's questioning that. That would, of course, be interesting to consider on condition that you are now deciding whether you will have a professional army or not because of the cost of costing, but we are not ahead of that decision. So the fourth fact, which is also undeniable, is certainly the new sensitivity of citizens under these new security circumstances. Today, citizens in the world who are working with each other see their commitment in defence of the country differently to meet security together. If some unfortunate circumstances were repeated, citizens would probably behave equally, but today it is such a situation that a citizen according to his logic, assessing that it is not important, decides for civil service and that is not our trend. It is a trend throughout the world and it is also indisputable, and it is very important for the decision to be made. Then, general budget decline. In Croatia, the budget has dropped by more than 50% over the past 4 years. And it must then reflect on the professional part of the army and we must look for reserves. Where are we gonna find them? And the costs that are not needed, which are the costs for the manual army. And what's ultimately also an argument. If you don't know what you're going to do then look at what others are doing, and others haven't abolished the army. All these countries I've been talking about, based on some kind of free judgment. Well, these are the countries that did this on the basis of their strategic documents. So Italy and Hungary, both the Czech Republic and Slovakia, brought this to the foundations of the strategic documents that these countries have. We are with these countries, especially Transition countries, Slovenia, etc., in very similar, almost identical security circumstances. And it's also one of the arguments. You no longer need anything to make a decision, to implement a decision, for the modelities, etc., for the degree of modernisation and how much state can invest and should invest, for the speed of rejuvenation of the Croatian Army, for this we need studies, but not for a fundamental decision. And finally, Mr. Markov said that this should all be of course in line with the basic documents, the national security strategy and the defence strategy. Well, of course, one and the other of our strategies that we adopted a few years ago in this House is the possibility of abolishing mandatory military service. Therefore, this initiative is fully in line not only with some international trends but also with the highest national security and defence documents adopted by this Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20148	Thank you. This concludes the session's morning work. Continuation is at 3:00. It's the HNS-PGS Club, Happy Ferenchuck. We're continuing the session. On behalf of the HNS Club, PGS respected representative Srecko Ferenčak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20150	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, dear colleagues and fellow MPs. The final draft law amending and supplementing the Armed Forces Service Act, proposed by the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, adopts amendments and additions to Article 197 which prescribes the conditions under which the defence minister will propose retirement of active military personnel following the decision of the Supreme Commander. This law imposes order and lays down specific conditions and criteria that must be met by an active military person in order for the defence minister to propose retirement so that the active military person can acquire the right to retirement before the prescribed conditions are met. The representatives of the Croatian People's Party Club and the Primorje-Gorskin Alliance support the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Service in the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia because it creates a legal basis for selectively proposing retired and active military persons, i.e. only those who meet the prescribed criteria and on the basis of the decision of the Supreme Commander. As for the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Defence and Proposals of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Service of the Armed Forces, it is necessary to say that the Republic of Croatia has reduced the duration of compulsory military service and the duration of civil service, and so we have joined the general trend of reducing the duration of the military period in Europe. Since the disappearance of the bloc's policy and the fall of the Berlin Wall, most European countries have reduced their military forces since the early 1990s, and some countries by as much as 50%. After the disappearance of the bloc's policy and strengthening integration processes in the security and defence areas, there has been a decline in citizens' response to mandatory military service and increasing interest in civil service. In Slovenia, Germany, Spain and other European countries, only 25 to 50% of people in the country could be deployed to military service, while in Croatia as many as 30% of all military officials are persons serving the civilian military deadline and the number is on the rise. It should be noted that the United Kingdom, the United States, France, Belgium, the Netherlands and that these countries formed professional armies, which proved to be much more meaningful, more efficient and cheaper. It is important here to mention transition countries such as our neighbours, the Czech Republic and Slovakia, which are deep in the process of abolishing mandatory military service and the introduction of a professional army. Slovenia, as you know, has already done so. All of these are good examples for which we, moreover, should be led, because our citizens are certainly significantly reduced in perceptions of threats and there are a large number of requests for civil service, and our defence budget is constantly falling, and these are certainly less valid reasons for abolishing compulsory military service. In addition, the security processes that take place in our neighbourhood reduce the possibility of endangering the Republic of Croatia and the Croatian people, and this is also an additional reason to end the military service obligation. The suspension of compulsory military service will reduce the number of soldiers, but will result in the choice of psychophysicalally best prepared persons to reach the highest levels of training, training and efficiency of the professional composition. The number of soldiers will be able to significantly increase the equipment of the Armed Forces with the state-of-the-art weapons and thus achieve a significant increase in the combat preparedness and efficiency of our Armed Forces. Furthermore, the reduction of the number of soldiers could free most of the facilities, infrastructures and land currently used by the military, which could be used and used for various economic and other civilian purposes. The abolition of compulsory military service opens up a greater opportunity for young people to work and education for the benefit of the whole country. In view of the above, the Club of Representatives of the Croatian People's Party and the Primorian Mountain Alliance will support proposals for amending the laws proposed by the Club of Representatives of the LIBRE. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20151	I'd like to thank the esteemed representative. This is what we ended up discussing in clubs. We're moving on to an individual debate of 10 minutes. It's the Honorable Representative Stazic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20152	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Termination of the military arm. The Republic of Croatia is on its way to Euro-Atlantic integration. It is a plebiscite decision by both the Croatian people and all parties in this House. The former government has worked on it, the work has continued to work with the government, and the work is already taking place within the scheduled deadlines. We can become a NATO member in 2006. When we enter NATO, we have some rights, and we have some obligations. The basic right that arises, the basic benefit of NATO membership, is collective security. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The NATO treaty says the attack on any member state is considered an attack on all member states. Therefore, the Republic of Croatia will receive a NATO umbrella in this regard. It will become part of a major armed force of global scale and its security in this respect will be fully guaranteed. Of course membership in the NATO alliance also creates some obligations. Some of these obligations have already begun to be fulfilled in this preparatory phase. Our Armed Forces, parts of the Armed Forces, are participating in NATO peace missions. We show and prove that we are capable of keeping a professional army well equipped, well-trained that operates according to NATO standards. When we join NATO, we will also have to expand this aspect of the obligation within what is in these negotiations, in these talks is our responsibility. We probably won't have to have a big fleet or submarines that we can't have in particular not nuclear or I don't know what kind of air, but we'll have to have something, something to contribute to that NATO alliance. But what we have to contribute to, it has to be top-notch. Why? Because that's the NATO standard. That's our goal, that's what we're going to do, that's what we all agree on. And now instead of trying to achieve that goal as quickly as possible, and we'll achieve it quickly then if we get rid of it, that's how I say the ballast of this manual army. Which costs us, which for NATO alliance is unnecessary completely, because there we only need a professional army, therefore, this LIBRE proposal is fully in line with what all parties in this parliament advocated, which the former government advocated. That must be our goal. What do we need with a manual army, which is why spending money on a manual army when we can use that money more usefully to spend it equally on the military, but to spend it on the equipment of that army to be in that NATO standard. So, the sooner we decide to do it, the better for everyone. We're not a particularly rich country that can separate a lot from the defenses, but defense is a necessity, I'm glad we have a concept that we've all adopted and agreed on, but when we have to think about how we spend budgets, not having too many, that the army is expensive, expensive, then let's act rationally. Then, gentlemen of the government, gentlemen of the ruling party, ignore what this proposal comes from the opposition party, ignore that fact, look at its contents, its intensity, and you will realize that it is something that you too stand for and that this proposal should be accepted. It's a matter of dynamics when you start to realize it, whether right now, whether for a year, whether in two years, you need an army and prepare for something like that, but that's the way we need to go there's no doubt about it. Let's go that way as soon as possible. I won't talk about any other positive aspects of this case because other clubs have spoken. These free up many of the premises that the military is holding today, they can be used more usefully, they can be given to local self-government units, they will find a better solution for them than to have a hand-in-armed army living in them. 30% of the handbooks today are calling for an objection to conscience and that number is growing. Listen up, we won't have anyone to send to that hand-in-hand army, which is why we need that hand-in-hand army. It is obvious that the processes that occur not only in our country but in the whole world they have reached Croatia, that is the trend that is present all over the world, and that is now preventing us from acting according to the model of other democratic countries. It wouldn't be good if it were in any, even in the least, even in the past, to endanger the country's safety, but precisely because of what I'm saying we're entering a common alliance, the country's security won't be compromised. As for the government, I therefore strongly support and call upon everyone in the name of reason to accept this LIBRA proposal. As far as the Government of the Legislative Proposal is concerned, it is a legal proposal in the second reading, we know how and why it came about in the first reading, which was a direct cause for this law to be passed, this is a known case of unfortunate Chachia, which provoked the adoption of several laws in this House, this is one of them. I think it's a good thing there are criteria, it shouldn't be without those criteria, because when they weren't there could have been such a case of Chachia, but I hear that this Chachia... was retired anyway. Was he retired on purpose before this Law was passed so that he would not accidentally fall under this law, or he was still an active military person. It's not a question of MPs that I can ask right now, but you can give me a final word, answer that question, not to me, to the public, I can satisfy my interest in that way to send you a written question. It's good to introduce these criteria. There is little question that is questionable from the aspect of the equality of all citizens. You know the war was won in 95, young people enter the army, those who could not participate in the war because they were simply too young, they became professional officers in the Croatian Army, they would not be able to be retired under this law because they would miss those 6 months of participation in the Homeland War, but not because they did not want to participate in the Homeland War but simply because they were too young to participate then. And today they join the army means they won't be able to handle it, but the promoter said that the law's intensity that he defacto die over time is acceptable to me, because when he dies because of the fact that in the army over the years we will no longer have people who could use this Law then this profession of soldiers will be evened out with all other citizens. And that's good, that's what I think the legislator has come up with wisely, and that his intensity is fair and valid, so I think this law should be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20153	Thank you. The word has a respected representative, Rade Ivas.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20154	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. Today we are having a united discussion on three draft laws, the law amending and supplementing the Law on Service in Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Defence, and the Law on the Completion of the Service Act in the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia. In the debate, I will refer to these two draft laws, which are proposed by the Club of Representatives of the LIBRE, which are proposed to abolish the mandatory service of the military term. The Law on Defence, adopted in 91st year, prescribed the duration of the 10 months military term and the duration of civil service for 15 months. In 2001, military service was reduced to 6 months and the duration of civil service to 8 months. With these changes, Croatia has joined the general trend of reducing the military deadline in Croatia, as the fact is that after the block division disappeared, there has been a change in the attitude of citizens according to the traditional form of participation of citizens in defence. The increasing response of citizens to military service is the result of new security processes in Europe, as well as the increasing availability of civil service opportunities based on the complaint of conscience as a democratic activity of modern society. Today in Croatia, the number of requests for civil service is growing, and it seems to reach up to 50% of military officials this year. More significant trends in the abolition of compulsory military service appeared in the 1990s so that today's service, compulsory military service, the UK, Belgium, the Netherlands, France, etc. There are, however, countries in Europe where the stand prevails against the suspension of compulsory military service is said to be Switzerland, Germany, Scandinavian countries. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Service in the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia as well as the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Defence is proposed to abolish mandatory military service and service in the professional and military composition of the armed forces. The suspension of recruitment is proposed and a public tender is launched as the main way of collecting interested persons to serve the professional composition of the armed forces. In other words, volunteering is introduced with military service. According to this proposal, both men and women would apply for a public tender for military service, sign a contract with the MORH that lasts 30 months and passes so on. contractual obligation, nine-month training. The promoter believes that the suspension of the mandatory deadline would lead to substantial savings. But military analysts are in doubt whether a professional army would mean any savings. In fact, the professional army must be asking for a lot of expenses. Significant means should be directed and re-designed for professional staff training, buying modern military technology and adapting to world-wide trends. On the other hand, it is right to ask how much we can benefit from large reserves. Croatia today has nearly 900 thousand soldiers in reserve, without quality training and equipment. The proposal proposed by the Proposer to move with the combined training of the armed forces, means professional, hand-to-hand and reserve composition into a professional form. He's looking for a safe solution to a series of open questions, so we're primarily considering an analysis of the costs of a hand soldier to a professional soldier. A cost-effectiveness analysis and the ability of the state. Which includes a likely increased cost on the reserve composition under the circumstances of the commitment to the concept of a small, efficient and mobile army adapted to NATO standard and require a more detailed analysis. All studies carried out on the professionalisation of the Croatian military suggest mandatory, that mandatory military service must still remain, as these studies say that the professional army would be more expensive and expensive than today's combined system that is in place. Studies show that full military professionalisation would reduce the operations of the Croatian military. But clearly they also show that permanent corrections should also be made in the manual army system. And in conclusion, not entering into a detailed analysis of the justification for the abolition of compulsory military service, I believe that this concept of full professionalisation of the Croatian military is premature, that it is seeking a clear professional basis, and a longer transitional and time period. That's why I can't support the passing of these laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20155	I thank the esteemed representative of Ivas. The word has a respected representative Ivan Bagarić. He's not in the hall. The word has a respected representative, Željko Pavlic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20156	Dear Mr. Vice President, let me briefly engage in this debate, primarily on these two laws proposed by the Club of Libre, which abolish this mandatory military service. I may point out, therefore, that our action has been going on for a long time. That a few months ago, we completed our action to collect and sign, which means petitions to abolish mandatory military service, where we have gathered several tens of thousands of signatures of citizens who have agreed with this initiative, in which they have supported us, in which they have given us some additional arguments that have strengthened us, so that we stand even more firmly behind this initiative. As far as I'm concerned, the biggest argument is actually to support this law and this initiative is a fact, i.e. number, that the number of requests for civil service is actually increasing dramatically from year to year, and that number itself leads to absurdities and the existence of an institute of compulsory military service, because we will soon be in a situation where most of our young citizens will serve a military term in civil service, therefore, not in the manual service. The figures tell us, for example, that in 91 C.E., only one such request for civil service was submitted. So that number would start to grow, so from 99-2000 when it was 680. In 2000 there were 4 thousand, in 2002 there were eight thousand and 500 such, so requests for service, in 2003 9 thousand 711 so there were requirements for civil service of the military period, not the regular one. This year I think that number is even bigger. So these numbers themselves tell us that we have to be very careful about what and why this very process is happening. What we should pay attention to is that we must not take a step backwards, but rather the opposite of this law that awaits us, which is certainly waiting for us in a year and two years. I think there's going to be a similar law in this same place that's going to talk about civil, so we're going to end the mandatory military service. In response to the parliamentary question given by Minister Roncevic to his colleague Krapjan, it is said that it is necessary to define more precisely moral, or religious reasons, and, above all, to prove the reasons why civil service is sought, and on the basis of which a solution on the recognition of civil service is made. So, the ministry proposes to tighten the criteria under which this civil service of the military deadline would therefore be approved. For us, it's a step back. We don't know what kind of proof this is, so we're working on. We are afraid, therefore, that there will be different discriminations in proof or during this process. So let me read to you the article 47 which clearly states military obligation and the defence of the Republic of Croatia is the duty of all capable citizens to do so. By this law, so we do not lift our military obligation. It is said that the conscience of those who, for the sake of their religious or moral supervision, are allowed to participate in the military duties of the armed forces. Thus, the Constitution makes it clear how and how and why civil service can be requested. Now prove in any way whether it's going to be in front of any commissions or anything, that's a step back for us. And we say in a few years, we're sure to get to the moment, if not now, of course if we don't pass this law in this process, then surely in a few years we're going to have to do it. What we would also like to warn is that, by adopting this law, By abolishing mandatory military service, and we note once again that we are for a strong professional army that should be better equipped precisely with savings from this item. But let me also read you our rough estimates of possible savings, so. Rough savings estimates are moving somewhere around 500 million kuna. Just a fixed cost of monthly fees 200 kuna, 10 kuna meals per soldier, that's all, right? Dress and footwear 1000 kuna and travel fee 100 kuna. For 25,000 people, there are about 16 thousand hand soldiers, 9,000 civil service, energy, maintenance, they're also... hundreds of millions of kunas. In addition, the administration's costs are about 80 million kuna for a thousand management and defence staff. So it comes close to an estimated figure of 500 million kuna. So half a billion kunas about a year could be used for other purposes. So on the one hand for professionalization, raising the quality of our professional army. On the other hand, and on the proposal, LIBRE therefore believes that some of these funds should also focus on science and education, which unfortunately does not develop according to the dynamics that should. With these costs, we must also add up the costs that parents themselves have for our handbooks or so for the handbooks that are in our barracks or for those who perform civil service military service because, as we know, they can every week what most of them are able to come home. Parents have great costs, therefore, as far as supporting them during these six months, maintenance of the military term. Also, for those eight months who serve a military deadline because they have a really messy status. The danger, therefore, that threatens these young people, is either to disrupt their life or work rhythm. So they have to have a study break, they have to have a work break. Often, they are not sure if they will be able to return to work on their own. So here are some other arguments that I've tried to strengthen our initiative with. Mr. Radoš spoke of it much more exhaustively, so I hope that you will give support to this initiative, which was also given the same in the polls of public support, so more than 50% of the respondents supported this support that we think will sooner or later be back on the Parliament's agenda. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20157	I'd like to thank the esteemed representative, Pavlic. The word has a respected representative Zdenka Babic-Petricevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20158	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen! Since we have united three points of the agenda and I will only talk about one point on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Defence Act proposed by fellow representatives from LIBRE. I might have said a little differently about this law, and I wouldn't be surprised if this bill on amendments and additions to the Defence Act hadn't actually proposed, I'll call and I don't doubt it, a professional man who was a defense minister if it wasn't proposed by our former defence minister then I might say that this law was proposed only from liberal initiatives, which all people have the right to do, so I'll be more specific. Since much is said about this particular, about all points, especially about this law, then I will look back on only one part of these changes. All countries in the Croatian neighbourhood have a general military obligation and their defence forces are based on professional soldiers and handcuffs, even a neutral Switzerland surrounded by friendly countries commits its citizens to serving a mandatory military deadline and since we live today in the 21st century but still Croatia, which has been writing its newer history since 1990, must continue to have, for security reasons, such an army as it is now without listing what is so important and these are the possibilities of reorganisation and professionalisation of the Croatian military, given the financial and material resources. Here, so I will answer today to a fellow man who has several times told him that he is glad that for 2003 and 2004, the budgets for 2005 are smaller for the Croatian Army and that this gentleman can on the one hand say that he is pleased to propose or support the proposed law if the proposal itself depends on material or budgetary means. The military education of Croatian citizens residing in the Republic of Croatia is trained not only to defend themselves against foreign aggressors but also to defend against natural disasters when it is necessary to defend people of economic facilities to have a large number of qualified people and adequate resources. We're a country where we often talk about firemen. Our fire departments are not enough for us to protect what unfortunately has already burned down for us but all the countries of the world in the event of natural disasters are asking for help from their own army and we must ask for it always from the Croatian Army. But here I will refer only to those laws or articles of this law where Mr. Radoš is really going from extreme to extreme, from his time to today Croatian military bonds abroad have a residence in the Republic of Croatia and residence abroad have big problems. Now all those Croatian military bonds that have not served military obligations have been taken away from them during the 26th year of their lives by Croatian passports at the entrance to the Republic of Croatia and at the airport or at our state offices until unfortunately we have no real statistical data, almost 40% of Croatian military officials or handbooks, as it is nicer to say in Croatia, decide to serve military obligations or civil service of military obligations which Croats with a place of residence in the Republic of Croatia but who resides beyond its borders do not have such opportunities. So I hope that some other amendments to the Law of Defence will not happen that Croatian citizens who have not served for legitimate reasons have neither responded for justified reasons to the military obligation not to take away their Croatian passports. If we see these comparisons then I don't know, I repeat once again my colleagues from LIBRE go from extreme to extreme, and we hope, Mr. Minister, that you will do perhaps before the adoption of the new Defence Act to change the rules under which now, which is actually against the constitution, which is that Croatian military bonds abroad that have not served military obligations, I repeat for justified reasons, and they are in a different situation than Croatian military bonds in the country that will not take away their passports. However, I would still respond to Mr. Cain when he spoke today in his debate on what I had reported several times for correcting the incorrect quote and the replica, so my fellow vice president did not see me as the smallest in the Croatian Assembly that drugs could be obtained the most in the military. That's not true. They are handcuffs, Croatian young people are not young girls, so where they get them and where they can get their hands on drugs. However, such approach towards Croatian soldiers, according to the military, would have happened in 1990, then Croatian knights or then Croatian barefoot children would have gone to Croatian battlefields and defended Croatia's homeland and brought us to the Croatian Parliament. And Mr. Radoš, as a proposer, also said that it was possible to buy out military service. That fellow Rados, it is prescribed by those countries that have a great emigration that I do not advocate, for example Turkey but only for their citizens, or citizens who do not have a stay within the borders of Turkey or Albania, but who have a place outside the country. Therefore, there are many more reasons why this law of yours is unacceptable, but here is Mr. Minister, I hope, before the adoption of the new Defence Act, I hope that the rule can be changed and that there are no Croatian military bonds abroad with their residence abroad that their passports are not taken away. Because, regardless of their service or non-compliance with the military obligation, I advocate the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, we are all equal before the law, but to treat them according to the Regulation which was until 2000, they had the right to respond to a specific, military obligation, to delay the military obligation for justified reasons, normal release for justified reasons, do not give God disease or some others, as is common everywhere in civil society. And therefore, if allowed by gentlemen in Croatia, within the borders of the Croatian state, there was one case, objecting to the conscience, one handbook was allowed and he is in a nursing home and the same one has a license to carry a weapon. So let us not do injustice on the one hand and let those who are least guilty suffer. And therefore, all the laws of this country must make all the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, or all the citizens wherever they live and stay, very much protected by their laws, i.e. the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. Because what we're doing right now is unconstitutional!
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20159	Thank you. The replica was reported by a respected representative of Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20160	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, actually, I'd just like to correct some inaccuracies, as Mrs. Honored colleague Petricevic said. In fact, even in the former Defence Act, he only allowed the possibility of extending the possibility of the military service by the end of the calendar year in which they were 30 years old. Up to 30 lives, they were cases, like top-notch basketball players, athletes, or people who are... And there's been a lot of these situations. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It was also cases of business, going into business in a way that would not put the family in a position to... to serve the military deadline but were not released from the obligation to serve the military term, which would mean that it would be anti-constitutional. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, in this section I support this part but the rule is in force and because the rule as well as most of the other sublaws that were to be passed, it is unlikely that the minister will come out with the new Defence Act, so it will be dealt with in that way. And because of that, even in the rule that the late Minister Sušak signed, there are those that can be under... for a reason to take up to the calendar year who turned 30, this means that he must go to the service of the military service in November of that year. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's it, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20161	The reply to the replica of the respected representative Babic-Petricevic. Here you go. Do you have a reply to the replica?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20162	Mr. Vice President, I'm sure my colleague Kovacevic, I'm not talking about the Defense Act, I'm talking about a rule that has been since 2002. And that Regulation, in that Regulation, should change the way it was until 2000. They have the right to come, or to respond to military service. They have the right to postpone up to 26 years of life, or until the 26th calendar year of life, and after that for justified reasons, I always speak for justifiable reasons, and release normally up to 30 years when entered at 30 years in reserve, yet I still stress then for justified reasons. I'm not asking for a change in the Law of Defence. I'm asking for a regulation that was passed at the time of Minister Rados, former Minister Rados, pardon.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20163	Word, the word has a respected representative, Željka Antunović.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20164	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, allow me to, I will try to be very brief, look back at both of these initiatives that have been discussed. First, just a few sentences about the already well-known initiative of counterpart Radosa to amend the two laws in order to create conditions for the professionalisation of the Croatian military. I fully support the future development of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the direction of professionalisation, its full professionalisation. But I warn that this issue of decisions that will have to be taken for or against this position that are one of the key national issues that cannot be the only consequence of an initiative from this legislative body, regardless of what I appreciate these initiatives are positive because they significantly create a climate to speed up processes and make some decisions that do not have very clear indications that there is enough courage and to be made. However, what we must do will not succeed if we do not approach it in a way that is full of consensus and that we try to avoid situations of political debates. But I also understand this initiative because, until this moment, we are persistently unable to get a clear view of the current government, whether it will continue on the course of professionalisation or, by means of a reform of the Armed Forces in order to professionalise how it is long-term drawn in the previous term of the Parliament or the Government, or something drastic changes. It is difficult to recognise whether one or another variant is advocated from discussions coming from the ruling HDZ. In fact, it seems to me that attitudes are pretty divided. And that's why it would be good, not perhaps now, but very quickly to carry out a bar on the board of one debate, to ask for a clear view of the government and all of those, so also to the president himself who is like a lever, one institution of government has great authority in this area to see where we're actually going. Because this way, if we're gonna play with this question, I think we're gonna, like, tap in place. Here's so much about this, this bill of law, this bill of law. As for the government's initiative, I will also say that I have nothing against the content of this Law in principle, but I have this time as well as this morning when we have debated some other laws of a major objection to the general sense of which so much time has been spent, so many hours of work, so much energy and professional services of the Government and the Government, and this House to discuss something, through changes to the law, which, if necessary, should be further explained in terms of criteria could be made by one sublegal act. The law is clear enough to me, but it will never be so specific and clear that it can avoid any abuse. Abuse depends not only on the law but on the evil intentions of those who apply the law. I therefore condemn in this proposal that for some entirely other reasons we have spent valuable time both the Government and the Parliament, here in the second reading we have this debate about something that should never have appeared through amendments and amendments to the law at all. I'm more than convinced, I've repeated that I don't know how many times in this House that this proposal to amend and supplement the Service Act in the Armed Forces should serve as an alibi for unencipated, illegal behavior to abuse in one case. In the case of a former Major, former Armed Forces Officer Stipe Chachia. The one who proved himself to be an unworthy officer, who violated the Law of Service in the Armed Forces, who did not respect his work or his officer’s obligations under the circumstances was sent to honorary retirement. After a public scandal broke out, but not about his dishonest behavior in the service because it was ignored but rather his personal private conduct under public pressure was taken away from him from his presidential pension, he was returned to the armed forces and then after a few months quietly instead of being disgracefully fired for dishonest and illegal conduct retired this time not by presidential but professional retirement. This law, however it may be passed, will neither cover the mark and shame that has fallen upon many in the armed forces because of such an unholy case, but it will also not prevent such or similar situations in the future. This depends on our conscience, and in doing so, all those who in some way are subjective to an assessment of whether someone deserves or does not deserve some honor and privilege will answer before the people, before the voters. I will continue to receive no constant answers to the frequently asked questions, which is why the case of Chachi did not end with the dishonest discharge of that wicked officer, not covering that case, or perhaps some other less notorious cases of such amendments to the law. The Supreme Commander belongs to the right and remains entitled under this law to, under these minimum conditions, by his free assessment of the retirement of someone if he holds that he deserves it. That same right belongs to the minister a little limited, and I do not understand why the minister would have less rights to propose, not in making a final decision, but if the consensus is reached either. So content, I have nothing against this law. But I have against unnecessary debates, distractions from what is our real problem, which has also remained our real problem and covering such problems, is as good intentions in the amendments and additions to this law. That's not right. This will not lead us to the real reforming of the armed forces, it will not lead us to a consensus on this reform and finally what I mentioned perhaps in the future and professional, professional composition of the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20165	I thank the respected representative Antunovic. The word has a respected representative, Zvonimir Mršić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20166	Dear Vice President, Your Honor! First of all, I have to say that I will be against the final proposal for a law supplementing the Law of Service in the Armed Forces concerning the Presidents of Retirement, and I will try and explain why I object to this law. First of all, I think that when we have a system, and the pension system in Croatia is assessed and the reform of the pension system is assessed as the best in transition countries, I think there is no need to have as many exceptions as we are trying to make exceptions in Croatia from that system, the pension system. So that's one principled attitude. There are many individual things and many individual reasons why I think this law should not go away or that Article 197 should be deleted in that last paragraph rather than simply improved or clarified. If we have a bad decision or if we have some bad or insufficiently defined precise solution, then perhaps sometimes it is better to end it than to more precisely define it. So we agree that in the past there have been abuses in this instrument of presidential, presidential pensions, and now, in essence, this improvement only puts a little more obstacles or we raise the scale for future abuses. I am convinced that even under such a defined law there will be those who should not receive a presidential pension regardless of who will be president of the Republic or defence minister at that time, from which political options he will come. Because they cannot agree that the presidential pension should be earned or could be earned by all active military personnel, which means that even a soldier who can receive a presidential pension in the active military service. I might be able to think about it or agree with that if the law were to specify a very narrow circle of people with the highest military acts that could get the right to a presidential pension, but that a soldier could get a presidential pension because he was extremely responsible for the development of the armed forces, however, I'm sorry, I can't understand. Secondly, I can't understand that someone who has the last 4 years of the evaluation is being pointed out, and this is not the highest score in the armed forces, can be responsible for the development of the armed forces to that extent in order to get a presidential pension. Third, I cannot agree that the criteria for the presidential pension are something that is granted by the person who grants the pension. Because these medals here are numbered by the President of the Republic. Therefore, the President of the Republic can very nicely lead a person to award medals and then simply retire. So there are a whole series of reasons why these criteria are not good enough or accurate enough to narrow down the circle of people who can get a presidential pension. Because if there is an institute of presidential retirement in all countries of the world, I am sure that in these countries of the world, it cannot be obtained by an ordinary soldier, that it cannot be obtained by a lower officer but that it can only be obtained by very high acts that have indeed contributed to the development of an armed, armed force in that country. In the end, I want to say something about this other law. It is absurd to explain that this pension will not be able to obtain some who should essentially be unrepentantly fired. So those against whom a power of power or criminal conviction has been brought, open, open-ended investigation or a criminal trial. Well, of course I can't get a presidential pension. They must be disdainfully fired from the armed forces. And this law is in conflict with itself with some previous articles that speak of an honorable discharge, which speak of the termination of the military service and is certainly contrary to the articles of the Pension Insurance Act, and in particular the Pension Insurance Act, which regulates the pensions of active military personnel. But I asked that question in my first reading, and now I repeat it again. What will happen to the active military personnel who have entered the pension insurance system? What are the other pension pillars paying for? This includes voluntary, voluntary pensions, pension funds. How are they going to calculate the presidential pension? So we're going into one good system again with a whole series of exceptions. And it is ultimately incorrect that this law will not further challenge, i.e. to ask for additional funding from the state budget. Then we either pass a law that will not apply because there will be no such pensions, or those pensions will not be paid out of the state budget. Something's wrong here. So if we have such people if we make the law so that we can have them in the future, then it's safe from today to a certain point, they're going to need additional funding from the state budget. So that's only a fraction of the reason why I can't, unfortunately, support this law. In contrast, however, this law, which Libra proposes, is about professionalising the armed forces, or the military, I can accept and I will support it. I will support it because I really think it leads to what we all want, which is to increase national security, and to reduce or not reduce, but to rationalise the costs that we spend on that national security. I am convinced that, although here, colleagues have calculated 500 thousand kunas, 500 million savings due to the abolition of the manual composition of the army d will need much more to stand out in the future for the armed forces. And for national security, because the armed forces are only part of national security and the military is only part of the armed forces. That it will take a lot more to isolate because we need to modernise our armed forces. So it's good to see where to burn those 500 million so we can buy modern funds to the equipment for a professional army that will then be able to join NATO systems. Because within six months of today's military deadline, a soldier cannot, except perhaps, train for the infantry for any other specialist profession so that he can be equally involved in the fight against professionals who might be on the other side. I hope it won't be in the future, there won't be any need for that. So in such short time, it's impossible to train a soldier, but we're spending some money on him. And that soldier might have been a much more socially beneficial community instead of the military going to college to go to his workplace instead of to the military or somewhere else he could make a much more significant contribution to his community. I have to say that the Civil Service Institute is good at the moment when we have a general military obligation, because these numerous young men who serve a soldier rock make a huge contribution to community service in a number of institutions in the state. And help to replace or raise the quality of services provided in homes for the elderly, in children's homes in welfare centres, or in local self-government units. So I think it would be really good to support Libra's proposal to go to military professionalisation, because unlike counterpart Babić Petricevic, the abolition of the general military obligation does not mean that the military is abolished. It just means that we will have a professional army that will be highly trained so trained. Which will have extremely good equipment, and which will be ready 24 hours as soon as possible to react if needed. Similarly, we cannot link the general military obligation to protection and rescue because we are about to develop, for example, civil protection, i.e. the entire segment of protection and rescue. Which is what the army finally comes into, as counterpart Babić Petricevic said, but a professional army is not a handiwork. Not the reserve army, but the professional army comes when no one else, no health care, no civil protection, no one else can come to that. I therefore propose and invite you colleagues to support this Law. DESIGGURING that in Croatia, young people do not spend six months in the military but spend their time in universities and in their jobs. On the other hand, to increase the level of national security in such a way that we will have a younger trained and equipped professional army. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20167	I'd like to thank the esteemed representative. We've exhausted an individual discussion with this. Whether or not the proposing representatives want to take the floor. Here's a respected representative, Jozo Radoš, on behalf of the Club Libre.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20168	Thank you very much, Mr. President, here's before thanking everyone who took part in a few clarifications and notes. Mr. Stazic said that the interest in civil service is 30%. Yeah, but for the last two years, so 2003 and 2002. However, only in 2003 it was already 50%, 9771 requests were submitted. And that trend will not surely fall, it can stagnate or eventually rise. Mr. Ivas said something that's actually often a classic delusion in this sense. He says the professional army is more expensive than the combined army. That's true, except it would be relevant to us if instead of today's 25 thousand professional soldiers and eight thousand handcuffs would create an army of 33,000. That's when that army would be more expensive, that's not the point. It's just that only these 8,000 handcuffs are moving away and everything we spend on it should go into modernization and of course raising the quality of the professional army. Therefore, this argument does not make sense in the conditions in which we find ourselves today. He'd make sense if we were to build an army from the start and decide which model we'd have. Mrs. Petricevic is talking about the fact that all the countries in the neighborhood have a manual composition, which is of course not true. Only one country in our neighborhood has a manual. Bosnia and Herzegovina temporarily abolished military service which would continue. Given the relations in that country, of course, it's hard to say. The only country that has a regular military service with reductions is Serbia and Montenegro. And yet another classic delusion of the words said by Mrs Zdenka Babić Petricevic says the proposal comes from the defence minister. So if we're looking at things right, then the proposal needs to come from who knows and who knows the whole system. If we remove the politician, if we are truly responsible for such an important issue, this is an important issue for the state, so for national security. Then such a proposal can come beyond any policy from anyone who has met the system. And I've been in a position under the circumstances to know and know how much difficulty the regular functioning of the armed forces brings that fact with almost no use at all. So it's one of the classic delusions that someone who was a minister of defense can talk about it. I'm first of all a man or politician who looks at what the common interests are and only when you get to know a system well, then you just have the right assumption that you would suggest something as important as this. And in the end, I am glad that the eradication was without some large polemics, perhaps it could be some kind of announcement or news of different relationships, our overall relationship with the Croatian army. Often in the last few years in this House, when the military was involved, it has always been predetermined by conflicts, often disqualifications, this debate has shown a high level of tolerance in this regard. I, of course, thank all those who participated in this debate, and especially those, and I dare say that which in their presentations has actually shown a profound insight into the problem of what I think is the fruit and debate that has been taking place in recent years on this issue in the Croatian public. So, people are, of course, MPs in particular, it seems to me that they have a good understanding of these processes, and even those who have been reserved according to this idea. As for the very fate of this idea, or this project, I'm convinced he doesn't actually have alternatives. If something big doesn't happen in world politics, European politics, then the Republic of Croatia will have to decide on that path. I will, of course, follow the government's reaction. We call for studies, I said what they can be, of course they can be very useful, so I will monitor how Croatian rule, Croatian government, is being placed in this sense. If there is any indication that this will really be done, I will be very happy if I no longer propose this law to the Croatian Parliament, because I think it really needs to come from the Government, but if the government is going to reject that possibility, and I think it is not good, then of course I will again report with this law, of course on behalf of the Club of Libre in this Assembly, but I would like to propose that very soon after this study that it will appear, it will indeed carry out the right responsible debate, not just to simulate the debate as it is often with us and that after that the Government of the Croatian Parliament is based on and these today's discussions propose those solutions which are more less contained in the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20169	I'd like to thank the esteemed representative, Radosh. On behalf of the Government of the Republic of Croatia Minister Roncevic, please. Excuse me, correction of the incorrect quote Zdenka Babić-Peteričević.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20170	Mr. President, fellow Radosh, you misunderstood me. I said your proposal was premature, with the intent of being a former defence minister, and I called you a professional. Well, it must be an honor. But you're way too early with this kind of bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20171	Thanks, I still saw the tile now.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20172	Thank God.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20173	On behalf of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, Minister Roncevic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20174	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to thank all the participants in the debate on behalf of the Government as a promoter. I am now talking about the Government's proposal, the final proposal of the Law on the Completion of the Service Act in the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, and despite the pointed remarks, the Government considers that this, in addition to everything I said in the opening section, is a transitional institute that will monitor the reconstruction of the Armed Forces, which monitors a transition of the Croatian army from one war to a modern and peaceful army as we strive, that it will eventually die, but that there is still a need to regulate this area. Now something about the individual attitudes that are mentioned here. A colleague Mršić, a tight application in this section. In the case of a strict application, the existence of acts and responsibilities for the work has not been finally established, but we considered it necessary that it was already merely a reasonable doubt that this person would, despite these criteria, be within the range of candidates that the defence minister could propose for this extraordinary honor, but by the very fact that it was brought into reasonable doubt to stop the possibility of realising that right. And normally, the final punishment imposed absolutely excludes him from that right. counterpart Antunovic discussed abuse and that so far there was no abuse in the case of Cacia for the simple reason that there were no criteria for proposing the use of this institute. Therefore, there is no possibility of abuse. She worked personally in this system of a large 30,000 people, and she knows absolutely that it is impossible to control all processes, and I am also sorry that she is not here now to hear personally what she is and during the term of office when she was responsible for the activities of the Ministry of Defence and the Armed Forces as well as the persons who have been under tight procedure have been deployed to position higher posts and a simple message about the tight procedure she specifically referred to. I don't think of it as a minister affecting the Military-Strengthen Prosecutor's Office and the Military-Strengthen Council. They are independent bodies, as well as in the justice system, the minister cannot influence, so, unlike her, I will not write letters that a certain strict procedure has to be implemented within 2 days with a precise measure. I find that inappropriate, isn't that how we're going to improve the quality of work in the Armed Forces? In this section, I ask and propose on behalf of the Government that this law be supported, and now that we have a united debate, I will use the opportunity to refer to the views of these laws proposed by the Club of Libre. It simply repeats the government's position, which was proposed and won in writing. The government believes that these changes are still too early, and as far as the study on professionalisation is concerned, which is now at the end, its draft, be assured, colleague Rados that I simply don't mean as defence minister to propose to the government or to exhaust myself in fictitious studies to make or not make a decision as a cover. We simply want to have all the parameters that are important in bringing this very important issue. These aren't decisions from today to tomorrow. It's very easy to break down a certain system, but it's very difficult, it's very hard to get it back if it's wrong. You will be at the opportunity when the study is presented to the Croatian Government, you will be able to discuss and contribute to this, I agree with you, a very important issue. Several times during the debate, NATO standards were mentioned. There are no NATO standards. Every country is looking for its most optimistic model. But since you mentioned some countries, I'm going to tell you examples that we managed to get through our NATO military mission, even though we're not members, but we have a mission there, so just examples work. Around the civil service of the military, Macedonia has a share of civilian service 1% in military service, Bulgaria, the other day I personally asked their defence minister to have 1% of the military deadline, Latvia has abolished the Civil Service Institute because the objection to the conscience is born into something that is being produced with us. The objection to conscience has unfortunately become an excuse to avoid military service. Austria has announced the suspension of compulsory military service, but according to the latest information we received from our military envoy, they are preparing a decision on the extension of the decision by 2010. Slovenia, according to our data, suspended the service of mandatory military service last year and there is no problem with the civil relationship and this, but they have, they have, other problems, not enough interested in professional military service. So, you see, there is no universal experience, but we need to find our model, to be, to create an armed force that will achieve a fundamental constitutional function, that's defence and national security, but that in the long run, depending on the economic possibilities of the country, we can also finance. Although it's a little out of context, but I simply have to answer the allegations that Mr. Cain said about the military as the most suitable place to touch intoxicating drugs. Here's a report from our military police administration, just for information, Mr. Cain, compared to the first six months of 2003 compared to the first six months of this year. The number of events monitored by security crimes, violations, violations of public order and peace has decreased by 30.2% of the events. 28.2% are fewer participants, 38.7 is less than a percentage of the members of the armed forces. 34.9% have decreased the number of perpetrators who are members of the armed forces. 36.8% of events per segment of crime are down. We have the smallest drop in a group of 12.7% of traffic accidents, but that's also the consequence of a technique unfortunately used by members of our armed forces. And in the abuse of intoxicating drugs that you specifically pointed out here with special pleasure we have a reduction of 31.3% so if the total of all other segments of society that trend of reduction was like in the Croatian Army, I would be overjoyed. Therefore, let us not send the wrong message to the young man when he comes to serve the military term that it is some sort of crime because it is simply not so. We're following phenomena, we'd like them to be even less, but the trend is positive, and we should keep it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20175	I thank the Secretary of Defense, Rončević. Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, respected representative Mršić. Correction of an incorrect quote by a respected representative of Lucin.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20176	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister said at one point that there are no NATO standards when it comes to the military. NATO standards exist, there are from security checks especially for officers and officers from training to equipment. There may not be standards in relation to the ratio of professional or non-professional armies, but when you introduce professional standards in the professional army, this manual composition is very important to you. That's what matters.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20177	Correction of the incorrect allegation by the respected representative Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20178	What Shime Lucin said was that there are no NATO standards. It would be to talk about what, what and how, but surely there are NATO standards in certain segments, etc. If we didn't talk about it, it would be good to fill them as much as possible. It is also incorrect to state that the objection to counsel, I quote Mr. Minister, serves as an excuse for not serving the military term. It's one assumption hypothetical, it's your opinion subjectively but you can't go in to say the structure of individual consciousness. It's his right stemming from existing laws. I think the bigger problem with us is why those who end up, say, our West Point officers aren't going back to our army because they're getting enough there, because they're not worth enough of their hard-working and top-notch knowledge. That's the problem. If it were a professional army, then such top-notch professionals would be the best paid and the best valued.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20179	Thank you. Don't argue on the correcting of an incorrect allegation. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the respected representative Kramarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20180	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I must say, in fact, this is very difficult to underline under the category of incorrect allegations, but since these colleagues today from the ruling party have mostly repeated it is very important to me as not only a representative but also as a citizen to try to explain in fact what covers the term too early. Mr. Minister said that Mr. Radosh's initiative is too early for him, too, but that's why it's too early to give an argument, and I think it's just the fact that there's going to be a big rationalization, big savings, and then it's not too soon, and you're going to have to give one for too soon. It's a rather stretching term that covers everything and nothing. It may be too soon one day, a month, five years, but it would be at least essential to tell citizens or our public when it will really start happening, when this study will be completed... [[You can't hear the speaker.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20181	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20182	...to warn these guys who are shutting down someone else's.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20183	Thank you. Time's up.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20184	But that's no reason to shut down.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20185	You've corrected the opinion of Minister Roncevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20186	Well, that opinion is there when.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20187	Thank you. Time's up. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the respected representative Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20188	So I would correct the imprecise allegations of a minister who said that fewer of these phenomena were in the armed forces because they were less exposed. Statistics only talk about discovered things and not about whether they really have it because it would be fascinating that in six months everything decreases 30%, maybe there are other reasons. Because if that's the case, then it's a matter of moving these methods used by the military police to the civilian police and reducing the form of a citizen by 30%, but maybe that's why more young men serve a civilian military deadline.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20189	Thank you. This concludes the debate on the united agenda points. The vote will be when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20190	Final draft law supplementing the Service Act in the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia. The debate on the text of the law is over. The amendments were submitted by the HSP Representatives' Club. As regards Amendment No 1 of the HSP Representatives Club, the same situation applies to Article 163(3), as it does not apply to articles, is covered by the proposed amendments and amendments. Please, a little peace. Proposer of the amendment, on behalf of the HSP Club, respected representative Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20191	Mr. President, the HSP Club does not share your opinion and we call again on Article 163(4) if necessary to comply with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. A general's rank has been acquired, such as diploma, ID card and other things, and we cannot agree to the doubt that General Blaskic can be taken away from the rank, and according to the applicable law that is the case. So that's the right acquired, and that's why we consider this provision to be a valid counter-constitutional provision. General Blaskic didn't deserve to get into a situation so that someone could take away his rank.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20192	It is worth the same explanation that I gave you on the application of Article 163(3) and paragraph 4 whether the law is in accordance with the Constitution or the future law or the proposed law, it is competent to evaluate it in one special procedure provided for in the Constitutional Law on the Constitutional Court, the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20193	Would you please, Mr. President, can I speak?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20194	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20195	Come on, read it. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Wait, listen further, if this is necessary in order to comply with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia or with documents, I am still reading, related to international emigration, and in connection with decisions, you can see now that it is not true, and in connection with the decisions of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia. [[And that's not...]] Now you see you didn't say exactly.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20196	Yeah, yeah, about the decisions, what ones?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20197	And in connection with the decisions of the Constitutional Court. I'm not saying about all this, you see it's not true.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20198	This amendment shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union in the Official Journal of the European Union. Please show the defence minister, Mr Rončević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20199	The government does not accept the amendment, because it believes that 6 months of participation in the Homeland War is in the context of this provision supplementing the law and the areas governed by them are the appropriate length of the participation time.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20200	Dear Representative Pero Kovacevic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20201	Your Honor, Mr. President. In the context of this law, you shouldn't even stand for six months. We're looking for a vote. Twenty-four months, I guess, watch out, someone could have been a participant of the Homeland War since 1.1.1996, so the law until May 30, 1996, and it meets those conditions. It meets those conditions, you understand? No day he spent fighting. It could have been between 1994 and 1995 when there were no fighting activities in certain areas. So we think 24 months is the least it can be. 24 months, Croatian defenders and those in the Armed Forces are also asking for it. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20202	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? I find that, with 76 votes for, 4 against and 33 abstentions, the Law on the Completion of the Armed Forces Act has been adopted in the text as proposed by the Proposer along with the amendments adopted. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Service Act in the Armed Forces. Dear Representative Stazic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20203	Your Honor, I voted for this law just now. Let's check the count. It was 77 a minute ago. No one got out. It's supposed to be 78, they counted 76. This whole voting procedure of yours about these laws is completely irregular because...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20204	Thank you very much. The objection can be made before the vote is done, not later. If you've found out before, then you knew. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Honored Representative Stazic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20205	Mr. President. It is impossible to comment on the result of the vote before the result is announced. This remark of yours, this suggestion of yours, that I should make that remark before the result is published will enter all the textbooks of logic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20206	And your remark will be entered into some other textbooks of nature. See fellow Stazic, 230nd paragraph 2. The rules of procedure, the voting check must be requested before the chairman determines that a decision has been taken. ... I did. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I did, and after that, you called. ... Very interesting. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] This is what you propose to the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system to initiate this in the application of the Rules of Procedure. I'll get the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20333	We're moving to chapter 18 of the agenda. Final proposal of the Law on the prohibition of use, the creation of supplies, production and transfer of anti-walking mines and their destruction, second reading, P.Z. No. 75 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. In the case of the adoption of this law, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the Law shall apply to Articles 155 to 157. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Minister Roncevic, come in!
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20334	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament! Very short. The Law confirming the Convention on the Prohibition of the Use of Stocks, Production and Transfer of Anti-Walk Mines, which was adopted by the Parliamentary House of the Croatian Parliament at a session in April 1998, confirmed the Convention on the Prohibition of the Use and Creating of Anti-Walk Mines and Their Extermination. It's a convention from Ottawa, December 1997. Following that convention of adoption, five additional protocols have been concluded and this previous Law confirming this Convention, the Republic of Croatia has taken the obligation of the Convention and the obligation provided for in Article 9 to take all appropriate legal, administrative and other measures, including the imposition of criminal sanctions, in order to prevent and suspend any activity undertaken by persons in its jurisdiction or under its control or carried out in its territory and to prohibit state signatories under this Convention. The Republic of Croatia is in Article 163. However, this provision does not satisfy with its scope and accuracy the requirement to be imposed before the State of the party to the Convention pursuant to Article 9 of the Penal Code. The second reason for the adoption of a special law is also to specify the powers to implement and monitor the implementation of the law and the adoption of implementing rules, and given the division of jurisdiction between the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Interior and the Croatian Mine Action Centre, to carry out various operations relating to anti-walking mines. This avoids conflict of jurisdiction between different bodies as well as with respect to the Law on Confirmation of the Convention. For the same reason, provisions on the establishment of a commission at the state level were introduced in which the Government of the Republic of Croatia would appoint representatives of the Ministry whose jurisdiction comes in dealings with anti-walking mines, whose task would be to coordinate the monitoring, application of this Act, the international action of the Republic of Croatia and to submit an annual report in the field of activity of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The adoption of the Implementing Law is the only international legal obligation of the Republic of Croatia which has remained unfulfilled to date under this Convention, which we have introduced in our own legislation. The law prohibits the use, development, production or otherwise the acquisition of supplies, storage or concessions and transfer of mines, and allows for two exceptions which relate to the area where they are used for the training or development of mine destruction techniques. The other exception was made in relation to a kind of anti-walking mine. These are anti-walking mines of a targeted action whose use, in view of their properties, is permitted by States Parties to the Convention. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20335	I thank Minister Ronchevic. Do the committee's rapporteurs want to take a word for it? ... On behalf of the HDZ Club? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] On behalf of the board, I'm sorry. [[Intruder: No, on behalf of the board.]] On behalf of the Committee [[Intruder: For internal policy and national security.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20336	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. The Committee on Internal Policy and National Security at the 18th session held on 15 September 2004 discussed the final draft law on the ban on use, the creation of supplies, production and transfer of anti-walking mines and their destruction, submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia by the President of the Croatian Parliament on 22 July 2004. The Committee discussed the subject matter, the text of the Law, on the basis of its competence as set out in Article 63. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament as a parent board. In his opening statement, a representative of the Government of Croatia met the members of the Committee with the reasons for the adoption of this Act. It states that the Republic of Croatia is a party to the Convention prohibiting the use and creation of supplies, production and transfer of mines, since the 99th year when the Convention entered into force. It also states that the States Parties to the Convention are obliged to adopt implementing laws in order to comply with the Convention and that the adoption of the Implementing Law is the only international legal obligation of the Republic of Croatia which has remained unfulfilled until today. Although the Republic of Croatia is the leading country in meeting all other obligations under the Convention. The Committee supported the position of representatives of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and decided, after the debate was held, to propose to the Croatian Assembly the adoption of the Law prohibiting the use, the creation of supplies, the production and transfer of anti-personnel mines and their destruction, in the text proposed by the legislator. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20337	I thank the esteemed representative of the Capricorn. I'm opening a debate. We're going to a club debate. On behalf of the HSS Club, Honorable Representative Zdenko Harami, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20338	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Minister, dear colleagues and colleagues. On 24 April 98, the House of Representatives of the Croatian Parliament adopted the Law on the Confirmation of the Convention on the Prohibition of Use, the Creation of Stocks, Production and Transfer of Anti-Walk Mines and Their Extermination. Now, as a logical continuation of this Law before this House, it is the final proposal for a law prohibiting the use, creation of supplies, production and transfer of anti-walking mines and their destruction. It is not specifically necessary to say how much the Republic of Croatia is most directly interested not only in the adoption of such a law but also in its effective implementation until the end. As a consequence of the war on war, hundreds of thousands of mines have been sown in the areas covered by the Republic of Croatia, mines that make life extremely dangerous for the population in these areas, while in great damage to the restoration and development of the economy in these areas. According to the Annual Report on the implementation of the Mine Action Plan for Croatia and spent funds for 2002, 6 people were killed in the territory of the Republic of Croatia as a result of mines in that year. 11 people were injured more seriously, and 12 people were injured more easily. The situation in 2003 is certainly no better, and the report has yet to come before the Croatian Parliament. It is tragic when every human life is lost and the injury that mostly ends with mutilation, but it is even more tragic when children suffer in these incidents, and of all the persons covered by the 2002 Report, and it is 29 people, which is fatal, more serious or less injured, 10 of them were children aged 4 to 17 years. Due to all these consequences, the Republic of Croatia is extremely interested that what happened in the territory of the Republic of Croatia is never repeated again, and this law is precisely on the verge of achieving these interests. The final draft of the law compared to the first reading has seen a steady change, and we need to establish a positive one because most of the remarks that went in the direction of improvement, i.e. making a more high-quality bill by the proposings, have been accepted. I would not specifically refer to the first, second and third chapters of the proposed text of the Law, except I expect the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Interior to adopt the implementing acts, i.e., the regulations, would already remain on the fourth chapter dealing with criminal provisions. We at the HSS Club accept that criminal provisions are part of this law which is lex specialis in relation to the Penal Code, but we have an objection to a failure that has been unwittingly made by the motionor. In paragraph 3 of Article 9 of the proposed final text of the law, a description of the qualified part covering the use, development, production, supply, supply, transfer, storage and treatment of any direct or indirect mines, their constituent parts and anti-demination devices shall be given. As a result, if the death of several persons is caused, the perpetrator or responsible person in the legal person will be punished by a sentence of at least 5 years or by a long-term prison sentence. In our opinion, the item preceding paragraph 3 is missing here, which would sanction the injury case while in paragraph 3 it should add the words "caused death of one or more persons". Next, in this direction, we will submit an amendment to this Law with the belief that it really represents an improvement in Article 9 of the proposed text of the Law, and that the Proposer will accept it. The HSS Club will support the proposal, the final proposal of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20339	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP Club, Honored Representative Davorko Vidovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20340	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Here, on the occasion of this debate and how long it will last, if it lasts for an hour, then three people in the world die of anti-walking mines or get hurt. Twenty-six thousand people per year suffer from mines in about 70 countries of the world. For us, this is also not a hypothetical or theoretical question, and therefore, of all the reasons that you, Mr. Minister, have counted as the reason for the adoption of this Act, the least likes the one where we are said to be making this law to be among the countries that have already fulfilled this obligation, thus confirming our prominent role in the process of monitoring the disarmament and banning the use of weapons, or to avoid further remarks on the non-compliance of obligations we have made as party to the Convention. It is unnecessary to state this, even in the light of the Law, because we know, in our first reading, we had opportunities to discuss it, but at the time of the adoption of the Law on Confirmation of the Convention on the Prohibition of Use, the creation of supplies, the production and transfer of anti-walking mines, in 98, why we adopt and why we become a party to this Convention. Since this is a second reading, I refrain from stating these reasons that I believe there is a general consensus when it is accepted. I think that the first reading of this Law has really been improved, that the observed observations made and that it is much clearer who is actually responsible and who is responsible for the implementation of this Law although I must say that in the part where the powers are spoken of in the implementation of the Law, for all three key entities and key actors remains at the end of each article one formulation of the type that the matter of the article will be governed by the Regulation governing the Minister of Defence or the Rules of Procedure of the Minister of the Interior or the Regulations when it comes to CROMAC which governs the Law and sublegal acts. Knowing us, knowing the problems with the adoption of sublegal acts, and that as a key reason for not implementing a whole series of laws, knowing and today we've been saying something about how it's gladly delayed for some other time, I'd like to see a slightly more precise deadline by which these sublegal acts and those regulations should be passed. I may suggest and suggest that one conclusion should be made by all those who are obliged to regulate it, by sublegal acts and by the rules to do so within 3 months, 4 months, to give a precise deadline, otherwise, that the law has passed we have fulfilled our formal obligation, to stay somewhere on the side and I think that it must not be formalised in these issues because I say this is not a hypothetical issue for Croatia and those 800 people who have suffered from mines and those tens and thousands of people living daily in the mine environment have the right to obtain this concrete legislative confirmation of our commitment that this inhuman weapon is definitely removed and in any way prevent its production and use and transfer in Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20341	I thank the esteemed representative Vidovic. On behalf of the HNS PGS Club, the respected representative, Srecko Ferenčak.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20342	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and fellow MPs. The final proposal for a law prohibiting the use of the production and transfer of mines against the first proposal has been improved, some objections have been observed, and this final proposal sets out the prohibition of the use of the production and transfer of mines, their constituents and anti-demination devices, the obligation to destroy them are defined fundamental concepts, prohibited behaviours, and the obligations and responsibilities of the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Interior and the Croatian Mine Action Centre in the implementation of the Law, and the powers to exercise control over the implementation of the law. All of these are in line with the provisions of the Convention prohibiting the use of the production, production and transfer of anti-personnel mines and the destruction of which the Republic of Croatia has signed since 1. 3. In '99. This law allows the implementation of the international obligations of the Republic of Croatia established by the provisions of this Convention. What I would like to warn you is that in the light of this Law it is written that no means are needed to implement this Law which is certainly not true because the storage and destruction of these mines will require some means, so I would warn Mr. Minister to ensure that this Law can be brought to life. Representatives of the Croatian People's Party Club and the Primorje-Gorskin Alliance support the proposal for a law on the prohibition and use of the creation of supplies and production and transfer of anti-walking mines and their destruction by contributing more to the resolution of the huge demining problem faced by the Republic of Croatia in the legislative sphere. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20343	I thank the esteemed representative Ferenchak. On behalf of the HDZ Club, the word has a respected representative, Jarnjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20344	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian Democratic Community club will propose this bill in the text as proposed because the Croatian state had and still has a very ugly and expensive experience with the consequences of the anti-personnel mines. The assessment after the war was that there were about 1 million mines left in Croatia, most of which was just a waste from a group of anti-personnel mines. It is certain that it will take years for these consequences to disappear in Croatia and that it will take a lot more money to solve the problem in Croatia. However, this Law provides not only for the resolution of demining in Croatia and those mine-explosive means and anti-infantry mines that are directly related, but also for their possible production and attempt to produce these mines, and to be used and abused. We therefore believe in the Club of the Croatian Democratic Community that the Law has well and precisely laid down the powers to implement and oversee the law over the implementation of the law and supervision, and that it means these implementing rules of jurisdiction between the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Defence, and the Croatian Mine Action Centre, and what is important in the long term, that this Law prescribes that practically the mains of the work remains in civil power later, which means in the Ministry of Interior which has very often interventions and has teams that have to solve and such things as mine-explosive devices and especially anti-infantry. We talked here earlier today, perhaps it would have been better if we had discussed this problem before we discussed the laws of the Ministry of Defence's jurisdiction, perhaps then we would have discussed these proposed laws differently. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20345	I thank the esteemed representative of the Capricorn. The club debate is over. We're moving on to an individual debate of 10 minutes. Honorable representative Ingrid Antičević. I'm here.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20346	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. I think there is no person who may be opposed to the adoption of this bill and it is quite justified that it goes into emergency procedure or to be adopted as soon as possible. I think it's all about one good law, but I have immense remarks and I warn of the issue of constitutionality and legality of the provisions of Chapter 4 which bear the term "punishment provisions". In fact, it's inconceivable that under the head that carries the criminal provisions, one mix is actually made here, because it was suggested that criminal responsibility be established. However, we note that we have a Penal Code where such crimes are intended. I'll look back later on how pointless and ridiculously small punishments are for that kind of crime. But we'll just talk about it a little bit later. So, the promoter here has brought himself into such a situation that he's confused both the violations and the criminal acts. Because he put the name of the head of the criminal order. There is a need to distinguish criminal acts from criminal acts. And that's where the problem arises, maybe that's the Ministry of Defence, in any case, when it comes to these things, especially, watch out here, we have a top-notch punishment for our entire legal system, it's a punishment for a long-term prison, and it's so easy to access such an incrimination, I think it's kind of offensive to just criminal law, and it's also for the Ministry of Justice to be consulted here, so that they can consult their experts on criminals to eventually make these incriminations, or to improve the criminal law themselves. So this is unsustainable. A fundamental principle has been violated. The principle of legality, zeroum crimene son of lega and zero points son of a lie still from the 18th century set. So, every time and every attempt to disobey these principles in the making of criminal incrimination, we don't have good criminal incrimination here, so fundamental human rights are violated and brought into question, so legality, and thus constitutionality. Because the Constitution also speaks of these two principles, the fundamental principles of criminal law and criminal trial. You see, therefore, there are no principles specifically developed in the Penal Code, which would be followed here. So he has come after the perpetrators and the instigators and the perpetrators. They are based on the basic provisions of the Penal Code, in principle, equally punishable, but they always have the possibility of lesser punishment. It doesn't even appear here as a possibility. However, the general provisions of criminal law mean that they must be applied in a special law, i.e. in any type of incrimination, no incrimination shall fall out of those general provisions which relate to the types of punishment, the conditions of punishment, the guilt, etc., so on these fundamental principles. One of these fundamental principles is such a matter of imprisonment. It can only be when the main penalty is provided. And you see what the proposer is doing here. In Article 9(1), it states, first of all, that only 50 thousand to 100 thousand will be fined with fines, which are penalties that do not know the general part of criminal law. He says exactly what is the range and what is the range and how the fines are measured. This is where the proposer ignores it. And it goes on or on jail time from six months to three years. It is also from the aspect of legality and the general postulates of criminal law inadmissible. Then we have something else, where objective responsibility is introduced, which he doesn't know, so the Penal Code. With the latest amendments, we removed the last relic of objective responsibility from the criminal legislation by the editor-in-chief. So it is said here that paragraph 1 of this article will be punished by the responsible person in the legal person. Penal Code Says Who? - the perpetrator, so be he the responsible person or any person in the legal person who's guilty, what does guilty mean? - so that part of it has made it imaginary or stop. If that's not different here, you can see it right away in paragraph 2, where you can think of the suspended sentence of a long-term prison for both the perpetrator and the responsible person. So, the responsible person is a person who can be held accountable in this manner under criminal law, but in no case can it be a five-year sentence or a long-term prison sentence. Looks like the promoter forgot that we've also imposed a criminal liability on legal persons. That law has entered into legal force. It's a very significant law from different aspects. So here it is said, which is good to establish a very strict responsibility for a legal person, and it is predicted that a legal person will be fined with a fine of 100 to 150 thousand kuna. And why not the liquidation? Because criminal responsibility and punishment for another. Because the sentence of liquidation in, by that law is essentially the death penalty for that legal person. and there is no need to protect such a person, a legal person who would produce such assets that are all over the international law, and so on and by our forbidden. So the basic point is that this is an unsustainable state. Yes, if the promoter thinks he has time to fix it and predict criminal sanctions here. But if it's unsatisfactory, and I think that's the case, with our condition as it stands with regard to this part of the Penal Code. And it can become only one criminal act, whether it is found in the Penal Code, which was an initiative that the crimes were not filed in various laws, so it was a fundamental initiative, and it has been in recent years, and it has been done to bring all the criminal acts together in the Penal Code. The truth is sometimes an exception to one or more criminal acts in certain laws. But then I say we have to respect all the postulates. But it also can't happen that in two places there are two same or different areas of crime that are treated differently. Here's what happened to you here in a specific case. There may also be a criminal offense, but not two different criminal acts. Well, that's how you see it, Mr. Minister. In our Penal Code, there is the incrimination of illicit means of combat, where it is said that whoever produces, perfects, products, purchases, warehouses, offers or purchases, owns in the purchase or sale, therefore much wider and stricter described, but the penalty is too mild, I agree, owns, transfers or transports chemically or biologically or any other means prohibited by the rules of international law. So, there's no doubt that we have legal punishment from the aspect of criminal law covered by this situation. But the punishment is really funny. You might think, three months to three years in prison. The SDP club when it proposed amending the Penal Code was rejected by the government with a reason that the government opposes such a linear tightening of penalties. And now you come by a little bit in every situation to what we suggested. Here's to remind the government now that it's preparing, has been tasked by the Ministry of Justice to prepare for the incrimination of the criminal act of glorifying fascist and totalitarian systems. So, what we suggested two months ago and we were rejected, that such a criminal act is unnecessary. Now here you have such a situation that you have also been rejected, an increase of penalties in this criminal act, and now in this way in this final proposal, very well I say the law and the necessary law you're saying something that will not go through from the constitutional aspect, and that would be a shame to say not to fix it, and I am indeed from the best intentions here at this place I appeal to, because surely it will ask a question, constitutionality. And in the end, we will have no use for this, for this, for the great desire to incriminate something we will achieve nothing. So, I suggest that there remain criminal sanctions here and that the Penal Code tightens the fines, because in a situation like this, if any defendant comes to the defendants by calling on the Constitution, he has the right to a lighter law, and the law is lighter what is already provided for here in the Penal Code. And the sentence of prison, and the fine provided for in the Penal Code, is meaninglessly low. So all you have to do is change here in the Penal Code the amount of punishment, and here in the criminal provisions in this head that you've predicted, predict sharp fines, but also penalties for a legal person. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20347	I thank the respected representative Anticevic. It's time for the Honorable Representative of Shima Lucin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20348	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister, here's what I'm going to try to say in just a few words. Personally, it seems to me that this law belongs to a palette of those laws where the motionor had a very good intention, and where, in fact, the irrational setting of things and the intertwining of powers actually leads to the next one, that this law will not be possible to apply, or if it were to be applied, it will actually be very complicated. Let's say that if you look at how three key entities are set: MORH, MUP and the Croatian Mine Action Centre, you'll see one total irrationality. Let's say what is put into the jurisdiction of the Ministry of the Interior, let's say such objects as the destroying polygon, etc. It's located in the sea. I don't know why in these situations when we know we don't have a normal situation when it comes to mines, we haven't been more rational. On the one hand, let's say in Article 5 you have the Ministry of the Interior doing various inspection tasks, giving different credentials, and so let's say, among other things, that the Ministry of Interior is also monitoring the destruction of mines. At the same time, the following article says that the Croatian Mine Action Centre is also performing, but now expert control of mine destruction. I do not understand now, that means that the Croatian Mine Action Centre will oversee both the MUP or they will jointly monitor mine destruction. And the last thing that seems very important to me, that is, the most important. Those who do not know what these jobs are, who have not dealt with this business, may think that demining, or destroying, keeping and transporting mines cost nothing. It's a very expensive job, and this law does not provide for the cost of the job at all. Since the law takes effect on the eighth day of publication, that means probably 10 days, 15 days, I don't know where the means to implement this law will probably or at least need to be realised for the next year in the budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20349	Thank you very much. There are no more registered deputies. Do you want a representative of the motion, Secretary of Defense? He doesn't want to. Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20350	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, prepare the keys. He's been here 12 hours. Please engage to determine the quorum. Please quorum. 92 MPs and deputies are present in the hall. So we can go to the vote. The first item is the Final Proposal of the Law on the prohibition of the use of the production and transfer of anti-walking mines and their destruction, second reading, Proposed Law No. 75. The debate on the text of the law is over. We have amendments to the Committee on Legislatives, Representatives Josip Vresk and the Government of the Republic of Croatia. With regard to the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which came after the deadline, we first need to vote whether we will discuss these amendments that arrived after the deadline in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Please, who's in favour of voting on them? It's a technical question that we can and do not have to vote in this way. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Thank you very much. I'm asking the Secretary of Defense to explain the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20351	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament! Article 1 The Committee on Legislatives does not accept the amendment. The term "this law regulates the ban on the use of development" does not, in substance, correspond to the objective that the proposer wanted to achieve, which is to regulate how to implement the ban on the use of development. In addition, we note that the proposed term is not in the spirit of the Croatian language because the ban cannot be regulated, so the Government does not accept the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20352	Mr. Minister, you're explaining your amendment to the government.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20353	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The amendment following the debate, several MPs commented on the content of the draft law but did not make it the form of an amendment. We have read this debate and believe that it is necessary for the Government's amendment to improve part of the text and accepts and part of the content that has been presented in the debate. Mr. President, I don't know if the MPs now have a proposal for an amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20354	Not now. Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate on this amendment. I'm closing the debate. I'm voting on the government's amendments. Can we vote for, against, abstention? Please vote. The result? I find that the amendment was accepted by 79 votes to 17 abstentions and 12 against. The next amendment is respected representatives Zdenko Haramija and Josip Vresk. Minister, please be clear about this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20355	Representatives Zdenko Haramija and Josip Vresk have tabled an amendment to Article 9. Since the amendment of the Government has been accepted, we do not accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20356	I would like to request an amendment from the Proposer, the Honorable Representative of Vresk.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20357	That's right, Mr. President, I'm withdrawing the amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20358	Thank you. And the Legislative Committee. ... There are six amendments, first amendment. [[/The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20359	I explained the amendment to Article 1. We do not accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20360	What?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20361	We do not accept the amendment to Article 1.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20362	A brief explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20363	Which I just read. We believe that the term “this law regulates the ban on the use of development” content does not correspond to the objective the proposer wanted to achieve, which is to regulate how to implement the ban on the use of development.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20364	Thank you. We're going to the vote. Please turn yourself in. We can vote. Here you go. The result? I find that the amendment was voted by 36, abstentions 15, against 61. He didn't get the necessary majority. On Article 2, second amendment?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20365	Amendment accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20366	Thank you. It becomes an integral part of the law. Amendment 3?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20367	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20368	Thank you. It becomes an integral part of the law. 4th?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20369	This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20370	It becomes an integral part of the law. Five?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20371	Article 6 is not accepted. The proposal was intended to regulate the matter in question and a comprehensive and lasting way. So avoid the need for frequent amendments and additions to the law. In view of the international and legal obligation of the Republic of Croatia to enter into law as a State party to the Convention prohibiting the use of the production and transfer of anti-personnel mines and their destruction which will fully regulate the implementation and obligations of the Convention. In the event of the adoption of this amendment, we believe that any amendment to existing legislation in the area of demining either by amending the name of the existing law or by adopting another law that would further regulate this matter would require amendments and additions to the legislation now proposed, which would lead to legal uncertainty and difficulties in the application of the law, so that the Government does not accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20372	The chairman of the Legislative Committee?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20373	Your Honor, Mr. President, no matter how much I as president of the Committee have the authority of the Committee to withdraw the amendment in general not to this, I wouldn't do it. I'm still asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20374	Please engage. The vote. The result? I find that 40 voted in favour of the amendment. Detained 9. Against 62. The amendment didn't go through. Amendment 6?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20375	This is an amendment to Article 7. Partly accepts this article 7 has a new text since MPs have given it to me not to read the explanation. The proposal was drafted to establish this law by the National Commission because it was also the proposal's intention. The amendment referred to in paragraph 3 of Article 7 shall not be accepted for reasons which are visible in the text of paragraph 1 of this Article, representatives of which the competent ministries and bodies form the National Commission and there is no need for particular emphasis on the way of the election. We therefore propose that the regulation of the Government of the Republic of Croatia regulate their number and manner of work. The word of jurisdiction shall be deleted in each paragraph 2. Here would be the answer and the attitude, and in part we accept, and then we have... Article of the law. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20376	The chairman of the Legislative Committee?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20377	Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20378	Thank you. The vote on the part where the government does not accept the amendment. Come on, come on, come on, come on, Please vote. The result? I'm establishing 36 for, 2 abstentions, 79 against. The amendment in that section was not accepted. 7th Amendment?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20379	This is an amendment to Article 9. It is not accepted because the government amendment governing Article 9 has been accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20380	The president of the board?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20381	It's consensual. I'm pulling.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20382	Thank you. Amendment withdrawn. Thank you, Minister. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please engage. Please vote for, against, abstention. I'm asking for a result. I find that with 113 votes for, 2 abstentions and 2 against the proposed law, together with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20383	We're going to the next point. - Proposal for a Maritime Code, first reading of P.Z.E. No. 130 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply to the adoption of this law. The debate was conducted by the Committees on Law, Maritime Affairs, Transport and Links, Tourism and European Integration. You received the reports at the session. Does the applicant wish to further explain the proposal? Minister Calmeta, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20384	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Fellow Members and colleagues, here today we will discuss the proposal for a new Maritime Code, which has 1032 articles, which in itself tells us how extensive the matter is. The draft Maritime Code included the overall Croatian maritime science and profession, the employers also participated, the trade unions participated. Several presentations were held both on land and at sea, and I would especially like to hold a scientific discussion in the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts in Split, which was on September 3rd of this year and on which the proposal for the Maritime Code is full of support. The question arises as to why the government has decided to propose a new Maritime Code instead of going into a possible amendment to the existing Maritime Code, which is actually the first Croatian comprehensive and systematic maritime legislature. I'll give you a few reasons why it should have been done. The first is that the existing Maritime Code has been in force since 1994 and since then has been amended twice, and the adoption of the Law on Maritime Good and Seaports which took effect in October of last year, the maritime goods regime has been separated from the matter of the Maritime Code and its provisions concerning maritime well-being have ceased to apply. Also during the past period, the Republic of Croatia has become party to new or amended international conventions with which it is necessary to comply with the provisions of the Maritime Code. They have entered into force the Croatian legislation which represents a secondary legal source in relation to the matter established by the Maritime Code, and some of the provisions in the applicable Maritime Code have become obsolete and are too restrictive so that they should be amended and should also be implemented in a number of provisions by appropriate nomotechnical improvements, in a more logical and precise way to resolve certain legal relations, to remove language-style errors, etc. etc. All of this required a change of more than 75% of articles in a way to change or completely, to write completely new articles or to amend existing articles, so we estimated that it was more rational and that it would be more transparent and that its application would be facilitated if for all of these reasons a new proposal for the Maritime Code was written. What are the most significant newspapers proposed to introduce this new Maritime Code proposal? I think they're really big and they're worth the attention anyway. First, this Maritime Code proposal is in line with international agreements governing the safety of navigation and other international maritime law and law contracts, as well as with a number of international rules, resolutions and recommendations. In any case, I would like to highlight the international Convention on the Law and Control of Ballast Waters, which introduces into Croatian legislation the most modern solutions adopted by the international maritime organisation. It should certainly be pointed out that the proposal for a code is fully in line with the Paris Memorandum, which requires shipowners to meet the required measures for the safety of navigation. This Proposal for a Maritime Code is also in line with the regulations of the European Union, i.e. it is authorised by the Government of the Republic of Croatia or certain resolution ministers for the adoption of sublaws and regulations of a technical nature which will carry out further compliance with the European Union regulations. It is certainly in line with national legislation, which firstly requires the highlight of the Executive Act and the Law on Property and other real rights. Therefore, new solutions are proposed in the ship's real rights section as well as in the part relating to the ship's enforcement procedure. What is quite important and important is the introduction of a new concept, the concept of yachts and a new register for yachts, which pays special attention to the activities related to yachts as well as through other provisions of the law. It is prohibited, the proposal is to prohibit cabotage for yachts, which so far has been prohibited only for ships until the yachts have been banned. This also allows the Government to abolish or reduce to a minimum the black CV charter through regulations that are already ready and waiting, cannot be passed before this Maritime Code is passed. We know we've had a lot of problems here, and this is a road both gray and black charter will come down to a negligible measure. In this Proposal for a Code, further provisions are also contained in the decision of the Croatian Parliament on the extension of the judication of the Republic of Croatia to the Adriatic Sea. And I use this opportunity to say that on October 3rd of this year, the government's special coordination, which is formed, will start to effectively monitor and protect protected ecological fishing belts that amount to some 30,000 square miles [30,000 sq km], but this coordination will protect both internal seawaters and territorial seas, which all accounts for about 60,000 square miles [60,000 sq km] in total. Furthermore, as I must point out, we have proposed, in this bill, that in order to bring the Euro-Atlantic military alliances closer to them, the entry of a foreign nuclear warship into Croatian internal seawaters be approved. But we believe it's nothing unusual and it's nothing that's practically ever been done before, because so far, such ships have been able to enter the territorial sea. If we take the map and look at the lines where the territorial sea passes and where the internal seawaters are then we see that there are only 100 metres from the coast and in most parts they match the boundaries of the territorial sea with the inner sea waters, therefore nothing significant will happen in that sense. Then, according to the Convention on the Law of the Sea, a coastal state through the territorial sea must allow safe passage to every foreign ship. The proposal for this Code allows for the possibility of ecological disasters or sea pollution to be reduced to the minimum possible extent by the Republic of Croatia to establish separate navigation schemes, let's call sea highways or highways, directions, traffic routes which precisely determine the routes on the Adriatic, clearly in agreement, in agreement with the neighbouring Republic of Italy. This proposal for a maritime code also regulates the safety of navigation carried out in administrative and professional terms by port captains to the Ministry of the Sea, Tourism, Transport and Development, but there are also institutions and societies owned by the state, such as the Croatian Brott Register, the Croatian Water Sea Institute,... etc., etc., whose activities are regulated by a specific code. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Why am I saying that? I am speaking because in this Law, the bill does not mention the Coast Guard, but we know that the Coast Guard, or that the Coast Guard will also be defined by a new bill that we expect here in the Croatian Parliament in 7 or 8 months because we said that after 6 months of coordination that will protect and oversee the ZERP, the protected ecological fishing zone with experience and flaws will then be made within a month, a new bill called the Coast Guard Act. This Law requires the introduction of electronic registration of ships. And what I keep really important are the following two things. In the proposed provisions of the law relating to the crew of the ship and in order to equalise the conditions for the employment of seamen on domestic and foreign ships as well as our boaters with foreign boaters, it is proposed that the seafarer on board the ship under Croatian in international navigation be obliged to pay contributions to pension and health insurance and that the application is made mandatory by the shipowner. A lot of this was gone, and the sailors were and their families were in one uncertainty because most often it was not reported, it was not an obligation, so there was a whole series of problems. Now it's a boatman's obligation, and it can't happen that tomorrow and a sailor, but his family comes in any suspense. This Code also proposes, by reason of the specificity of carrying out the work of seamen who are mostly part of work outside the Republic of Croatia, the Institute of Maritime Supplement to increase the non-taxable part of the salary, which would clearly increase wages immediately. Here is the proposal that the untaxed part of the salary determines the government on a proposal from the ministry. Furthermore, when it comes to shipowners, the proposed legislation creates the most favourable conditions for the operation of Croatian shipowners and such conditions are already applicable in the world's leading maritime countries. That's next. A Croatian shipowner who operates in international navigation, a Croatian shipowner who operates in international navigation, is taxed on profits if he reinvests or retains it. Why is it so and so in all countries that have voted themselves and de facto and de jure the maritime countries, who knows the problem knows that some years are good and that the fares are such that they can be done with profits and significant profits but that perhaps for the next year or 2, 3 years in a row, the fares are such that the shipowner operates under the rentability. This creates in any case one uncertainty for the shipowner, inability to plan, inability to invest, otherwise creates a business problem with the shipowner, therefore the proposal is, I repeat, to exempt the profit tax if it is reinvested in a new ship or if it keeps what it would say for winter days. There's another thing that's why, and because of it, it was and it was one of the reasons why our ships were winding other people's flags. We're introducing an institute that has never existed before, which is an institution of mortgages consistent with the Anglo-Saxon laws, that is to say, with a simple way of selling the ship without a long court procedure if the shipowner clearly pays off the loan. This is how they get and can get cheaper loans, better loans for the purchase of the ship, for the restoration of the fleet, etc., etc. And that was saying one of the reasons why our ships and shipmen were running away, not the only one but one. Then, the jurisdiction of inspection of the safety of navigation from the construction inspection is separated, and so far there has been a lot of, quite a lot of uncertainty. Significant sanctions shall be proposed for the most severe maritime offences primarily for pollution, so that a fine may be provided for certain acts but a measure of confiscation of a vessel or a measure of confiscation of a certificate of qualification may also be imposed. Here's an example of what I'm going to say in article 1017. It seems to me that for a legal person is a million kuna punishment, for ecological pollution of the sea, and for a physical to up to 200 thousand kuna, plus clearly, plus the cost of cleaning up what might have been polluted. There are in the Code, I made it clear at the beginning of the 1034 article, and there's a lot of it. I've pulled out what I think is most important and what's really going to take one big step. Finally, by adopting this proposal for a maritime code, that is, by adopting this Law of the Sea Republic of Croatia, Croatia will indeed declare itself a maritime country because it will bring all its maritime legislation in line with the regulations of the most developed European countries. In addition to this Naval Code, if it is adopted, with certain changes, and we will hear this later, then there is really no reason for the Croatian shipowner to wave the flag of another country on the stern of the Croatian ship. Therefore, the adoption of such a single Maritime Code is a condition for all Croatian ships, which are under other people's flags, to return home under the Croatian flag. The Republic of Croatia now has a total capacity of around 2 and a half, 2 and a half million tonnes across its shipowners. Of that, 33 ships are under a foreign flag. There's no reason for those 33 ships, I said before, not doors under the national flag. And as evidence of the recovery of Croatian shipbuilding, I point out that at this point in domestic shipyards, five ships for Croatian shipowners are being built in domestic ports and that the number would be higher, however, we do not have more capacity so that some of our shipowners are forced to build new constructions abroad. If we take the information that, in the world, 90% of the trade is done by the sea, and in Europe, this data is somewhat smaller, it is about 60, 69, and 70%, respectively, and that on the 1 dollar that turns in shipping, it is dragging seven more dollars into the following activities or through, I don't know, various port services, expeditions, sedans, transports, shipbuilding, agency services, supplies and so on, then I think it's very important how much we're going to have to do with the seafaring and how our shipping will look. Here's an example: Switzerland. Switzerland, which does not have a sea, encourages the creation of a domestic fleet by giving its domestic boaters certain, advantageous, financial resources and so on and so forth, which only says how important and important it is to have strong and strong maritime and strong shipping for these reasons that I have said before. I keep it and we keep it in the Ministry that this is one big step. Whether it is best or not, you will say now in the debate, but we hold that it is indeed a big step to say that Croatia is both a de facto and a deiure of the maritime land and that Croatian sailors have the same conditions at home as the most developed countries, the most developed maritime countries in Europe and the world. We will pay attention to colleagues and colleagues representing your debate because it is indeed important matter. This is the first reading, and in any case, that each of your discussions will analyse and try what is maximum, maximum adoption until the second reading so that everyone together in the second reading, after the second reading, will adopt one such bill which I really hold to be, that it is very good and that it will also mean a lot to Croatia in economic terms. Here, Mr. President, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20385	Thank you very much, Mr. Minister. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, pursuant to Article 204, paragraph 2. I will propose to the Rules of Procedure to supplement the agenda of the 10th session of the Proposal for a decision to appoint a president, vice president and members of the Council of the Croatian Telecommunications Agency. Today, the Government has sent a proposal for this decision on the basis of an invitation to tender and has proposed this composition of the Council of the Croatian Telecommunications Agency on the grounds that it is necessary to adopt this decision by means of an urgent procedure in order to conclude concessions for three second generation networks and three third generation networks of mobile telephony. Do any of the representatives have any objections to the inclusion of this item in the agenda? If there is no, then the completion of the agenda with this point is done. Do the Committee's rapporteurs want legislation, maritime transport, transport and connections, tourism, European integration? No, I don't. Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. IDS Club, Honorable Representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20386	Dear Mr. President, Your Honor, Mr. Secretary, Your Honor, Mr. Representatives! Croatia brought its Maritime Code just as Mr. Minister said in 1994. Why? The old country fell apart. This matter was regulated by federal legislation, so it was clear that a new Croatian Maritime Code had to be adopted. No matter what he's written in the most part. Smaller changes were primarily due to the development of international maritime law since 1976 when former federal law was passed by 1994. From 1994 to today, only two changes followed. One change in 1994 and the other in 1996. The other thing I'd like to say is that this matter, and I agree entirely with the minister, is not political. It is purely technical, professional, and most norms are the direct consequence of applying a series of international standards, a convention sponsored by the International Maritime Organisation. Some changes are less significant at international level as a consequence of new maritime rights, but in no case require as it is now or rather suggested, the erasure of the entire code. It can be said that this law is only an attempt, under quotes, to be fooled, to deceive the advocates that there is a new law in front of us and now look at half a kilo of weight, and in nature it is not. Actually, there's an old law ahead of us. And it is fortunate that this is not a new law because I doubt it would then remain in force for this provision in Article 134, paragraphs 1 and 2 literally read. Article 1 of that Article: “The commander, crew member, yacht or boat must not be under the influence of alcohol or opiate, boelstan or overworked”. And it's clearly okay. However, paragraph 2 of Article 134 states: “A commander, a ship’s crew member, a yacht, or a boat may not have more than 0.5 grams of alcohol in the blood during its duties on board, boat, or yacht. Or it shall not have more than 0,5 prominences’. Now it's clear this is the norm that Mr. Calmete's Ministry has proposed absolutely, that we all agree, normal, natural, reasonable, it's logical in the spirit of our tradition, culture. In one word, one norm is fully in line with common sense and logic. Now what's going on on land? This ship's commander, for example a 150 or 200-metre tanker, can operate that tanker where 50 thousand gross plated tons of oil with 0.4 or 0.49 spilled alcohol in the blood, but when that commander gets on land, he no longer has to drive the car. He must not even sit on a motorbike because it is a violation for which a fine of 500 to 1500 kuna can be imposed. Now, gentlemen, God forbid one of the MPs gives the amendment so that instead of the 0.5 promilas, we can prescribe 0.0 promilas and then Minister Kalmeta, as say Minister Mlinaric, because of the possible errors of those devices for, as they say, the determination of alcohol in the blood must determine a standard of 0.1 promil. God forbid that happens. But what punishments are prescribed in this law for these persons? In Article 134, the sentence is a distance from the service for eight days. There's no fine which is also good, there's no, I'll call it by withdrawing the license which is also good. However, Article 1001 of paragraphs 1 and 11 may impose a fine of ten thousand kuna, a commander or a person clearly replacing him if he does not vacate a drunk person. It's him that I call him that driver can't be punished. It can only be removed for up to eight days, but the point is in something else or better said in the next. Here in this law is allowed 0.5 changes and now the question is why. Because it's probably how it's regulated by international conventions, and it would be awkward to touch that norm when other major maritime states, like one Italy, do not know America, Germany, France, and so on. Then why don't you know Croatia as well? Article 1009 speaks of the punishment of persons who take advantage of natural wealth in the epicontinental belt. It means that the epicontinental belt extends to and above the middle of the Adriatic, on this, let's call the north side of Croatia has all its sovereign rights. Clearly this does not apply to that economic belt, which is regulated in us as regulated. I am convinced in the only possible way, and that every other way that Croatia has reached for another solution would be unfavourable for this country and for the country's strategic interests as a whole. And one of them is getting into the European Union as soon as possible. And we all know that Croatia did not agree to certain subscribing concessions, so that Brussels probably too, Rome, Ljubljana Hrvatska, would block this approach. Article 993(6) is also interesting and it speaks of fishing for foreign vessels in the inner waters of the Republic of Croatia. The I.D.S. Club here is proposing some major punishment. I know that every crew, and therefore a foreign fine in the amount if I'm not mistaken from 10 to 70 thousand kuna plus a seized net, catch and so on, is a high penalty. Clearly, this commander is being punished from 5 to 10 thousand kuna. However, we propose greater penalties that even though the seized ship may eventually be sent a message that it will not be tolerated against the illegal entry of foreign fishermen into Croatian territorial waters. Secondly, if he were a legislator, I would dare say correct, he would have applied the current current law. To see what changes they've come up with. These two texts are so similar as egg eggs that they differ only in some of the other types of writings the different decimal point means in a sentence. Of course, technical, technological requirements change and changes in practice. In this respect, the International Maritime Organisation has accepted the principle of a quiet update of the Convention and, if most countries do not object to the Convention, the amendments have been entered or adopted in their national legislation. So if, in this Law of 1028, a change of a few points raises the question of whether this is a new law. As the promoter claims just before. No, of course not. And as for adjudicating with international conventions, a serious proposal would primarily offer the stability of basic institutes and put technical rules outside the law and regulate them in a different way. Finally, in that part, the reason for this law is lacking. I believe that it is not necessary to do so, and why, because technical norms will change in the future and then we will not be able to change each of these changes, write a whole new code that will have a stream of articles. It's like telling you a woman is going to make a new haircut and now we're saying we have a new wife. We don't. It's just a new haircut. And that's actually how it is. It's a good thing this is regulated here for ballast water, but it's afraid of us being pushed in one way by the Adri Society. But some other time. In the end, the impression is that these measures are suitable for boaters and that's good. If they were to reinvest the profits in these areas, maybe if that had been taken care of before, there would have been no collapse of the Croatie line. And will these remaining 32 Croatian ships be returned under international flags under the national flag, as well as the remaining Croatian 130s or 120 such ships will be seen. But what is important, at least in the opinion of the IDS club in relation to the seamen or employees, must be pointed out that no request has been adopted. No union request has been adopted, such as the work of paying for a pension job, the intervention in employment, especially for this foreign shipowner. It is not clear in one appropriate way that neither the rights of the crew member's obligations and so on or so forth are processed. The trade unions of Croatian seamen seek first, parallel to the ratification of the IOR Convention and the amendment to the law of intermediation and employment and rights with the time of unemployment. In order to regulate the control of the work of private agencies for maritime employment. Then they demand company recognition means this club for a foreign health insurance carrier and commits and a seaman to enter the system during the use of annual vacations and boarding waitings. Thirdly, they are asked to be allowed to pay for a well-defined job internship in a t-rheal of 2 months per year, which would reduce the age-limit clearly for retirement. And a fourth major requirement to free the seamen from paying income taxes completely or compared to the time spent on board. So as it suits the boaters, and we believe that it is necessary to reinvest this profit into their basic activity, it is clear that the position of the seamen of the Republic of Croatia should in some way be respected. What you're supposed to open one day is a matter of our ports. Croatian ports. First of all, I think of our largest port of Rijeka, which is losing its breath more and more compared to the competition, above all, Koper. Without strong ports, there will be no fleets, and Croatia will be a sign of a maritime strong country not only as strong as its fleet, but as strong as its ports. But I would say position, perspective, general maritimeity in the country is not good if the truth is that this year no students have been enrolled in the copper school. That's really bad. This is not exactly commendable to Croatia because the sailors who graduated from that maritime school were recognised throughout the world. If you don't accept this suggestion, I'd say, first of all, the Navy union, the IDS will remain restrained about this law. There are exactly some of these new moments here. Oko yacht, will that be expressed now on that black charter I don't know. And as for the passage of nuclear ships, I know that and what we will do to them, but at least formally let them not enter our territorial waters, no matter how we realize that these ships anchor in front of Athens, both in front of Trieste and in front of Napoli and in front of Alexandria and Tel Aviv and others, Barcelona and other major European ports, and finally when such ships come, then the traffic in ports always increases, thanks to the cheerful women's society from Hamburg and so forth. However, no matter what, I call once again on the proposer of this bill to accept union suggestions. In Croatia, we have 27,000 sailors who are both trade unionists and say national legislation for 15 years and announce certain protest actions, and I don't think we need this right now, but if possible, to meet them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20387	Thanks a lot, buddy. I think you didn't need these qualifications about women's society and anything like that. My colleagues and colleagues, we'd be working till 7:00 today, and we'll continue the debate tomorrow after 1900 tomorrow on the Naval Code. We have six more clubs to discuss the Maritime Code and 13 MPs. So tomorrow, what will not be completed by 1900 hours, will continue at half past 10 with a debate on the Maritime Code. We only have a point we just put in place, the appointment of presidents, vice presidents and members of the Council of the Croatian Telecommunications Agency, and at 5:00 this week we voted what was discussed. So the vote would be obvious somewhere an hour maximum. If it were a vote. ... No, I don't. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Yeah. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Wednesday we'll go with this the way it is. Keep going. I ask the Vice President of the House, Mr. Arlovich, to continue his presidency. On behalf of the HSP Club, respected representative Ruza Tomasic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20388	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister, gentlemen of the Government. The HSP Club is amazed by the fact that this Maritime Code does not address the issue of Coast Guards. There are different models of coast guard formation, and we are the most prone to the Norwegian model where the Coast Guard is under the command of the Navy. As the Maritime Code, the maritime constitution of the Republic of Croatia and the most basic legal act, this should therefore be a more thorough debate, in particular as on 3 October the application of the ecological and fishing zone for which coast guard is necessary and which has not yet been defined. Then Article 9 which speaks of cabotage. In HSP, we hold that cabotage can only be under the Croatian flag and we will not give it up, because when it comes to monopolization and sea transport, then there will be a bunch of foreign shipmen who need to register a boat in Croatia and pay Croatia's taxes. Then, Article 10, which is the most sensitive part of the Law of the Sea. The entrance of warships into the interior leads to sensitive business. However, the entrance of the HSP nuclear ship is totally unacceptable. This must be approved by the Council for Nuclear Safety which has not yet been established and to which Article 61 is also attached. The staying of a nuclear ship in one of our ports requires special anchoring at the port. So, you can't bring in a nuclear ship, and then you can anchor a cruiser in the same place. Therefore, such ships are not only anchored as such, but always in accordance with the defence contract and only in certain ports. Article 12 concerns yachts. The Adriatic sails at least 15,000 yachts and at least 1,000 more in black charter plus an undefined number for which no one knows how and where and when they entered. During the four months of the Adriatic, at least half a million people on those yachts are struggling. We can say that there are at least 50,000 people on the yachts without anyone knowing about them. It is a huge overcrowding and huge pollution, and overcrowding and pollution at sea is not solved by building marinas in every bay, but that every yacht along the Croatian flag has a vignette, so that it can be known who it is, and with the help of the Internet, it can be found whether the yacht had one in 3 weeks. Three crews that mean that this yacht is a charter, and it's not actually registered at all. Then, Article 23. and 25. where foreigners are banned from fishing in Croatian waters. We fully agree, but Article 71 needs to be abolished immediately. Sea fisheries law and the suspension of the application of the agreement with Slovenia, so-called SOPS that allows fishing for Slovenians. Articles 26 to 30 are articles relating to the passage of foreign warships. We agree with that, with a note when a foreign warship wants to land in our port, it must have a Croatian flag on it. One example is a Spanish warship that last year wanted to land at the port of Ploče to unload material for ESFOR, but refused to raise the Croatian flag. So such a ship must not agree to the port, because it is a disregard for Croatia's sovereignty. Also in 2001, U.S.S. Philadelphia and USS Jacksonville were in Dubrovnik, which also did not raise the Croatian flag, and Article 66 specifically ordered the raise of the Croatian flag. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the HSP opposes the sale of islands that are on waterways, and this is part of our own proposal. Article 70 is extremely important and is about sequestering. We believe that the border on segregation must change. So only a ship less than 1,000 tons can be freed from seizing. Furthermore, large yachts need to be fitted with sequestering if they are more than 500 tonnes. So big yachts can't be the exception, because if that's the case for ships, that would be true for any other ship. One more thing is the astonishment, which is that the obligation to ride for tankers and all ships carrying dangerous things has been thrown out. And only two other principled things. First, we ask that simpler conditions for the registration of fishing vessels be reduced by the number of crews on fishing vessels to fish over territorial waters, i.e. in the economic belt. And second, in Section 5 of Article 208 and all further articles in Section 5 concerning ship ownership. Croatia has lost its ships twice, shipmen. First, nationalisation and second in Serbian aggression. Therefore, no regulation on the assessment of nationalised ships has ever been adopted, and no rules on the assessment of war damage on ships have ever been adopted. In Dubrovnik alone, 200 ships worth 100 million US dollars were damaged and submerged, not to mention Split, Sibenik, Zadar and other places where yachts, ferrys, fishing boats were the same. Some of these ships were for entertainment, and some were all property entrepreneurs. A man whose ship was nationalized in 45 or drowned in 91 has lost everything if he lived off that ship. It's amazing there's no mention of any war damage on board. Croatia as a maritime country cannot and must not allow it. And ultimately we ask everyone to support our proposal to abolish the company "Adria" and launch an international diplomatic initiative to make the Adriatic a particularly sensitive sea zone in accordance with the Convention of the International Maritime Organisation. 3.6.2002, the HSP initiative concluded the initiative, but so far nothing has been done. The HSP club will be abstentioned, we would like this law in the second reading to better comply with our fishermen and boaters and because not all of the issues of international maritime law relating to the Adriatic Sea are regulated, and above all to the declaration of the economic belt and the formation of a coast guard. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20389	Thank you, dear colleague. It is next on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, a respected colleague, Antun Peru. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20390	Dear Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister, Assistant Minister and Secretary of State. Before us is the first reading of the Maritime Code proposal, and as some of the predecessors said in the debate, it is actually about the changes of the 30th and slightly more percent of the matter of the existing Maritime Code, which was as the first act in the sovereign Republic of Croatia to regulate all public, property, security and other elements adopted in 94. This law has been amended and amended three times, and in the past, the coalition government has singled out material that regulates maritime well-being and ports, I find justified because it is part of a national resource which is largely due to the intertwination of the competences of the various inspection branches to be exposed to systemic devastation, which is a very important resource. And I have to say that the existing changes that have actually been made into the new Maritime Code proposal have mostly been prepared by the former Government of Coalition, the existing one has continued at this job, and we have a final version of the law ahead of us. A part of the people who worked to prepare this important matter worked before during the former coalition government, working today, some missing, Captain Komadin Pava and Captain Reno Petrich who also contributed to the draft of this existing, present-day code. In the follow-up to this job initiated by the former administration according to our assessment, we at the SDP Club have, in a few, deviated from the declared objectives that the former government had in mind in the making of that code, and we are, of course, in support of the process of amending that law, in this case, adopting a new code. However, depending on how much the Government will hear about some of the remarks that will be made in this debate, which I will make on behalf of the SDP Club, as I suppose I will not have enough time, and then I will make some individual remarks unless I reach that point in an individual debate. The debate in the expert public that I have closely followed can give the impression that the profession, let's say, is conditionally mostly satisfied that the former government has also felt a change that needs to be made, and the dissatisfaction has been expressed in some way by the Maritime Union, or by seamen and sailors, and I will later focus on this particular issue in making concrete proposals and remarks. According to the SDP Club, this proposal of the Maritime Code gives us a systematic and much more precise legal regulation that has already been established in the practice of advanced maritime states in Europe and the world, but in the debate and presentation of the laws, some euphoric political assessments have been heard, for example. said Minister Kalmet in style, quote: "Now Croatia de jure becomes what de facto is a maritime country", there is the end of the quote. And it simply is just a tendious political assessment, because no law can simply resuscitate the destroyed maritime system of our country. I wish that would be possible by passing the Naval Code. Unfortunately, no code as good as it may be can restore the foundation of Croatian shipping, in the conversion and privatisation of destroyed Croatian shipping. No law, unfortunately, can restore the destroyed Croatian in the world of recognised shipmen such as Split's "Adriatic", "Sibean navigation" from Sibenik, "Meditarian sailing" from Korčula and especially "Croatia Line" from Rijeka in whose creation and affirmation I have invested part of my personal work on the world shipping market. How to understand today the fact that the two strongest Croatian maritime centres of Split and Rijeka almost do not have their boater and their ships. At the time of my naval days, only the "Croatia Line" of the then "Jugolinia" had a fleet of 67 ships with about 1.5 million gross tonnes, registered of course and celebrated it as one of the world's most recognised shipping companies. She's not here today. That we destroyed the existence of over tens of thousands of Croatian sailors and their families who because of their devotion to the sea and sea life and because of their exceptional almost innate maritime skills and acquired knowledge have always been recognized and respected in the world. Today, a small number of them of over 30,000 can sail on a ship under the Croatian flag. They were forced to fight around the world, often unprotected and exposed to unfair competition in the ruthless labour market. One illustrative data that gives indicators of the state and comparison of Croatian shipbuilding, although my data differs somewhat from those expressed by Minister Kalmeta of course is in a position to have better data than I do, so don't mind me, I suppose that exactly what Minister Kalmeta is is, I don't suppose, but today, Croatian shipmen have in their fleet around 1070 ships larger than 15 gross tonnes of which 998 around a thousand by me is more Croatian, and about 70 sides of the flag. This number includes all ships, and fishing, and small carriers, all of our fleets. Small boaters are indeed Croatian pride and tradition, but unfortunately Croatian boaters only have about 160 ships, about 160 real ships as the public knows how to say, i.e. Ships over 500 gross tonnes of which Minister Kalmeta also said at 33 are still sailing under a foreign flag, I think that number is slightly larger, but good. We're not gonna argue about that. So, under the Croatian flag somewhere, these real, let's say conditionally real ships, somewhere around 100ths or something a little bit more, and at the same time only the "Croatia line" 70-ac. Here, the new school year began the other day, a traditional maritime year in the world recognised, Croatia's maritime universities in Bakr, Mali Losinj, Zadar, Split and Dubrovnik are unable to enroll students, future sailors. It's not true, I mean, what my colleague Cain said, but they're not able to enroll in full classes, two parallel classes, nauticalally and ship-to-power. I know it is also the consequence of unfavourable demographic movements in the Republic of Croatia, but it is unequivocal and the consequences that our children and their parents are aware that there is no bread in Croatian shipping for future sailors. After completing the Central Maritime School, cadets and machine trainers cannot achieve or need a minimum, training internship as a condition for obtaining officer's decks and machines on board. And how can our children continue the family traditions of Croatian maritime families? Where, from generation to generation, high-ranking sailors were recruited. These are problems that this Law cannot solve. The consequences of our model of conversion and privatisation, of course not only that, there should be objective so to say, the collapse of the market and the war that has hit us have a bearing on this devastating state in which Croatian shipbuilding is located, but to a large extent it is the fault of those who have imposed this model of conversion and privatisation by their political will, and this is HDZ and our sailors must know and be aware of it. The other day in a regional list there reading that the court rejected the application of one of the, I call it the undertaker, "Croatia Line" who sued a journalist for mental pain for some qualifications he said about destroying the "Croatia Line". And what do they say about the mental pain of numerous maritime families and numerous sailors, what kind of mental pain did they suffer? But going back to the text of the Maritime Code proposal, I will try to highlight the changes that are significant to me in some way, and finally to make some proposals and to amend certain articles, and to get them into the Law by the second reading, or perhaps, depending on the attitude, we will be forced to submit amendments as a club or myself. I agree that in the new Code, compared to the existing one, there has been harmonisation with the International Conventions, and anti-cipatatively with some who have not yet come into force, but it is a positive practice in this direction and in other European and world maritime countries, so I think it was good to go. The Paris Memorandum, we have since the independence of the first international institution in which our country was admitted to legal and aviation membership in 1.1.97, which in some ways gives confirmation of the credibility of our Maritime Administration and of my colleagues who worked in the safety of navigation. A new register of yachts is introduced and the yacht is defined as a special vessel. I think that this is good and important, and I also think that it defines the concept of cabotage, i.e., transportation of passengers and goods between Croatian ports, including the transport of persons by yachts within the territorial sea of the Republic of Croatia, because I am sure that then by implementing regulations, sublaws that will surely follow, and in the article, I don't know, a thousand and some are defined deadlines in which these regulations should be passed, will be eliminated in many ways. The cabotage, although the stories of thousands of yachts in the black charter are very dubious, there are no exact indicators and the vinets do not solve the problem, because these vinets are somehow now encased in the form of triangles that each vessel carries. Therefore, we, the inspection bodies do not stop without reason and do not harass our guests if they already have an external feature. It is also good that shipowners who carry out their activities in international navigation are free of taxes on reinvested and state-owned profits, which I hope should contribute among others, but not only that, and further return of Croatian ships, ships of Croatian shipmen under the Croatian flag. And in my view, given the definition of the epicontinental belt and the rights of the coastal state arising from the definition, the international definition of the epicontinental belt, and we know that it is also about the exploitation of the submarine, not the water column. I think it is good that the article, paragraph 3 of Article 45, introduces a newspaper that national authorities are obliged to prevent fishing over an epicontinental belt, except where it is approved by an international contract. As I said, part of the job, a large part of the job was prepared during the former government. And I said what is the condition that the SDP, the SDP Club, vote for this bill. That's what we'll decide after we get the final proposal, but I'm going to look back at one of the three articles now because I see that time won't allow me those three articles either, so I'm going to have an individual discussion. What should be changed in our view, which is, above all, going away, refers to the Coast Guard which should at least be defined in principle in this Bill proposal and set a deadline within which the Law should be adopted. I think this is about two concepts. One, we are at the SDP Club who are for the Coast Guard and the existing administration that ingests some kind of coordination, but today I heard for the first time from Minister Calmeta that in one 6, 7 months a Coast Guard Act was passed. And now I'm going to skip it, so unfortunately I'm going to have to continue in an individual debate. And lastly, I left something that refers to the most important matter, which is the matter that solves the status of our seamen. I did not leave it by chance but entirely on purpose because there is no more important issue than resolving the status of our seamen according to our capabilities in accordance with the practice of the European Union countries and the advanced maritime countries of the world. My colleague by profession, Captain Mario Babic, today the assistant minister is in a public debate, a public statement...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20391	Time.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20392	Nothing, I'm sorry, then I'm going to have to go into an individual debate, but to allow me, at least in this case, to point out that there are no objections to be incorporated into the text of the Maritime Code, those suggestions that the Marine Union delivered, so I expect that until the second reading will be respected. If I'm not here right now, I'll report back to the individual debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20393	Thank you very much. Correction of an incorrect quote, dear colleague Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20394	Mr. Chairman, it is an incorrect allegation that the former Government, of course, is referring to the Government in 2000 and until 2003, by the end of 2003, has prepared this amendment, etc. In fact, nothing has been done in the past four years, and it is true that a revised proposal began in 98 and ended in 99. During the period from 2000 until the end of 2003, unfortunately nothing, nor did the letters prepare for the debate in the Assembly, and that is simply not an exact quote. Today we have a whole new material ahead of us and we are discussing it today.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20395	Thank you very much. We're continuing the club debate. It is up to the HDZ Representatives' Club and so the first respected colleague, Ivas, will then be a colleague of Nenadic. Here you go, colleague Ivas.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20396	Dear Mr. Vice President, ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs. The applicable Maritime Code has been in force since 22 March 94 and is the first Croatian full-fledged Maritime Legislative Chamber. This regulation regulates all significant public legal and property-law relations related to the sea, maritime navigation activities and maritime vessels. The Code has been amended twice so far, and by adopting the Law on Maritime Good and Seaports, part of the Code has been put out of force. Some provisions relating to the maritime economy today have become obsolete and in the meantime the Republic of Croatia has become party to new and amended international conventions whose implementation is to be ensured by the Maritime Code and other legal regulations that represent a subordinated legal source in relation to the matter governed by the Maritime Code have entered into force. The adoption of the new Maritime Code allows for faster and more successful economic development of the Republic of Croatia as a country of maritime orientation. Adequate systematic and precise legal regulation that monitors the modern generalised European and global achievements, a necessary prerequisite for this development. The proposed Maritime Code therefore creates assumptions for the return of all ships of our shipmen under the Croatian flag. The new Code represents more favourable conditions for the operation of Croatian ships, shipowners on a highly competitive international maritime market, which are specifically viewed in the following: Shipyard companies operating in international navigation are freed of taxes on the re-insured and retained profits, new maritime mortgage institutes are introduced, in a possibilities consistent with the Anglo-Saxon morgage, which favours more favourable financial engagements of our ships, foreign lenders. Measures shall also be introduced to facilitate and regulate the operations of shipowners in the crew section, application of labour contracts, payment of contributions by seamen, etc. The proposal for a law is in line with all international conventions and their amendments relating to the safety of ship and port navigation against pollution, to the management of ballast waters, to the transport of passengers and their luggage and other international legal instruments. Also, this proposal for a law has created assumptions for the full harmonisation of maritime legislation with the legal fluids of the European Union. In addition, yachts shall be singled out as special vessels other than standard vessels and boats, and shall prohibit cabotage and thus carry out charters of activities by vessels under the flag, clearly except for exceptional cases where certain economic interests so require. Furthermore, the new bill regulates the way in the nautical charter and creates preconditions for curbing the black charter. At present, we rent over 2700 ships of which 1100 are under a foreign flag, and about 1,000 of them sail on black. It will no longer be possible to perform charter service if the company in Croatia is not registered before and on board the Croatian flag. In fact, it doesn't make sense that foreign shipmen make money and money goes past us. A special register for yachts is being introduced, because even so far, yachts and tankers have been enlisted in the same directory. The newspaper inscriptions "I am conveniently renting a sailing boat in the Croatian part of the Adriatic", I hope that after the entry into force of this Act will no longer appear. Today, it is a situation for ships to rent foreigners, not to pay any taxes in Croatia. The rule is that owners usually use their vessel for one or two weeks a year, and then rent it to "family", which brings decent profits to the owner by the end of the season. During the summer months in our part of the Adriatic, there is no known how many ships are sailing, who are owners of rented ships, etc. The ships are anchored everywhere, and there are piles of garbage left on the land and on the sea. In order to achieve high standards and standards in the safety of boat sailing in our ports, the new code is fully in line with a Parisian memorandum called "Luka". Then, it is in line with the modern solution of national regulations such as the Executive Act, the Law of Property and other real rights, the Law of Infringements. The law clearly defines the separate jurisdiction of the safety and navigation inspection from the civilian inspection. Infringement provisions are significantly stricted mainly for the work of sea pollution. And to conclude, by adopting the proposed text of the Code, it means that Croatian maritime legislation will be brought into line with the modern generalised solutions, the relevant international instruments, by adopting international maritime standards, the Republic of Croatia is largely harmonising its domestic maritime legislation with the regulations of the European Union. The maritime legislation will be brought into line with new rules adopted at national level, which represent secondary sources of law on matter governed by the maritime code, those legal relations which have been demonstrated during the application of the law that are not fully and properly regulated, will ensure successful protection of the marine environment, creating more favourable conditions for the operation of Croatian ships on the world market. Finally, the Croatian Democratic Community Club supports this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20397	Thank you very much. Dear counterpart Nenadic will continue. Here you go, colleague Nenadić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20398	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I'll try not to repeat what my colleague Ivas said but I'll just start right here where he stopped to get this proposal from the Maritime Code bearing the P.Z.E. mark. It shall comply with the legislation of the European Union, acts of the Council of Europe. I would even say that at this point it's not the most important and that this bill has one larger dimension. For as long as I can remember, Croatia has been saying that it has a maritime or Adriatic orientation, and I dare say that it was mainly declarative. And a few moves convinces me that Croatia will indeed become one. I will list the three and four that I wish for, which is the first construction or construction of the highway towards Rijeka, Zadar, Split, Sibenik and further Ploča and Dubrovnik assures me that Croatia will truly respect the Adriatic orientation. Secondly, we have also passed legislation here, which will, the laws and regulations are clear after the law that will prevent the devastation of our sea that will prevent one chaos and... stop at the end of a construction mafia and unfortunately we come to a situation that even the sea is being rewarded as a private sea. Third, and this proposal of the Maritime Code assures me that we are really becoming a Croatian country of the Adriatic maritime orientation. And the fourth thing we want, which is, I hope, as soon as possible, to come here for discussion, to bring such regulations, of course, in accordance with European rules, which would allow as much protection of the coastal, coastal area as possible, to prevent the devastation, but also the sale, especially the island. I hope we end up in this home. And that is how I believe that Croatia would indeed become what it declares. And why does it matter? Because the sea looks for a little, and it gives a lot. If we had more such subjects, it would be extraordinary for our country and for our future. A colleague, Ivas, mentioned the problems of both the black and gray markets and Minister Kalmeta, and... that's what he was talking about these days, and the media wrote about it. And indeed, a large number of charters, boats, and we are increasingly registering the rush at sea, instead of registering more and more money, the foreign currency that remains in our country. I have recently read the data dealing with the Chamber of Commerce and Associations, that somewhere around this year, around 168m euros through the charter on our Adriatic is huge money, but unfortunately from that, it's about a third of it's black somewhere, which doesn't actually enter our system. That's what's wrong, and that's what this law will bring down to a minimum level. I am especially pleased and welcome that in the future this charter will be able to deal exclusively with our companies and will bend under our flags, our flag pardon. And one more thing, and that is, since it all comes to us it's extremely important to sanction and outrun ecological disasters and ensure as much safety as possible of the vessel. I am convinced that this proposal of the Maritime Code is going in that direction, and therefore I welcome it, and I believe that we will all support it with those remarks, the proposals that are made today in the first reading and tomorrow presented, let it be processed, be respected. But this is our capital document for Croatia and for our future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20399	Thank you, dear colleague Nenadić. My colleagues and colleagues, I'd like to inform you that it's time for an individual debate. We're continuing the debate. On behalf of the HSS Club, dear colleague Ante Markov. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20400	Dear Mr. Vice President, the honourable representatives of the promoters, colleagues and colleagues. Surely the debate on the Law of the Sea is rightly causing great attention, as the previous days have caused great interest not only in that part of the Republic of Croatia, which is more naturally defined according to the consumption it adopts and which the Law of the Sea had, but has caused a broad debate. A great interest, as well as those who are in some way participating in what it is saying and which should confirm that Croatia really is a maritime state, and we believe that we are a maritime country. And in order for the effects of this, the very fact that we are a maritime country, of course, should be clearer, more visible, more recognizable, should feel better in the number of ships, as well as in the effects that can be seen in those multiplicitial effects that they should give to islands, coastal and population. Of course, one such maritime strategy that should be in some way the goal of every society, that this Law of the Sea cannot bring it into such a framework. But anyway, this is a good wind as the shipmen say in their sails, that's true. As it is true, it is not good that this is something that should be pretentiously called a revolutionary law, because of course it is not. In its form, he has very quality or qualityd relations, specified legal regulation, introduced new standards that are closer, so to call it the practice of advanced maritime countries, but in its content, and I don't think that in serious discussions he has held a relative compromise at all, one indeterminate which, of course, through certain positions which have been expressed in public debates says that there is one part of the matter in this Maritime Code, but of course since it is the first reading and since I believe that both the Ministry and the competent authorities working on this law listen to both the voice of the professional public and the needs of our society and, of course, that until the second reading, I believe that I will take into account all that is said and what I will bring out in the debate. But I'm also going to have a clearer picture of what the final proposal of the Maritime Code should look like. And I believe that I can truly reconcile what I have said to bureaucratic compromises and indiscretions that are contained in certain articles. What's most important is what this Naval Code brings. He first and foremost unquestionably frees the shipmen operating in international navigation from re-institution taxes and retained profits, and it is absolutely good to give and wave, giving them wind in the sails and thus they will be able to demonstrate their economic interest more absolutely significantly. A new mortgage institute is being introduced, which is also very good to praise, as this institute is also known in modern maritime countries. That part of the measures that apply to facilitate and regulate the operation of the shipowners, and that part of the crew, is the part that I was saying was compromised, that it was controversial, so I don't think it's any secret that both shipowners' and trade unions have significant objections and they say in a joke this law has well arranged the ships and misprotected us seamen. And I think that this is what often happens in the law that is passed in this House, which is to regulate the area of certain work, certain human activities, and then the people who are subject to this interest and which make up the subject and the main topic, unfortunately we neglect, and unfortunately without the seamen, without the islanders, without farmers, without peasants, of course there are no activities that are closely related to these concepts. But I believe that these measures that want to facilitate the regulation of the shipowner's business in relation to the crew, too, I believe that it can be well matched to the needs today is to say whether it's okay for the crew or the seaman to have a working contract when he gets a boarding order I think it's immaterial. Well, of course you should. In the end these sailors are our external embassy, they are our people who travel around the world, represent their people, their culture, their customs, but if they have bad conditions then that assessment, that image, that reflection is negative. I think that in this sense I believe that this instrument in Article 125 can be changed and positively set in such a way that if we have already satisfied shipmen why we would not have satisfied sailors so that they all together do what is most important and that this society in a multiplicity is brought to life by the effects of the sea, which one maritime orientation can bring to every country and I think Croatia can be commended with it. Furthermore, this bill is that it is well in line with all international conventions relating to the safety of navigation, ships, ports, protection of seas against pollution, etc. A good measure and a lot of institutions is the introduction and electronic registration of ships. The separation of yachts as a special vessel other than standard ships and boats and the prohibition of cabotage in Article 9 is absolutely something to be commended, which is on the trail of those new forms of occurrence which may have occurred in 1994 when this law was passed and were not implicit enough, which did not have such a significant impact today is absolutely understandable and it is good that there was regulation of nautical tourism, especially a charter of tourism which, unfortunately, we do not have any exact figures that could describe how much today or how much during these months in the Adriatic there was a black charter, how much gray charter. It is very difficult to measure the effects or ineffective effects of all this together, but the fact is and we are all witnessing it either through the media or through the press or through reports that this summer on the Adriatic coast, there were a lot of ships on the Adriatic islands and we also know that Croatian nautical ports can receive about 12 thousand ships. It is evident that the number was doubled three, four, five times a day. Therefore, we did not just "lost" in the gray charter but simply from the fact that these ships were staying in for these unadjusted bays while clearly polluting these bays. In doing so, they did not pay any compensation for staying there. Some were dissatisfied because they did not have that favor. In one word, this nautical tourism happened and we have not yet managed to capture it, we have failed to extract from it what has to be extracted and in this sense this Article 9 is good because it is very clear that the charter of tourism can be dealt with by Croatian companies and no one forbids that there is foreign ownership and foreign capital in them but with the Croatian flag because how about I go to Munich to taxi with Croatian plates. I don't think he'd get permission, it wouldn't even help me open a German company. They'd say I had to have a German registration. That is why, Mr. Minister, I have not been able to fully understand why this exception to a provision which says it can be allowed if there is a legitimate economic interest or reason. I think he's already caused a certain interpretation, so I'm going to call him in a free translation, so he's already said he'll be able to have foreign ships with a foreign flag as a transitional period within Croatian companies. I don't think such a compromise is necessary. That compromise that is needed I think it should be within the meaning of if it is possible to influence greater participation and subsidies to domestic ship manufacturers who should find their place in this charter of tourism and not at all leave an exceptional possibility that those ships that have foreign papers are foreign to the flag and have entered into the home business system to be able to have an exceptional opportunity to deal with this economic activity. I think it's perfectly natural for Croatia to have the right to seek multiplication of the effects precisely in the stimulation and production of domestic ships that will be the predecessor of the home charter and then the effect that is brought will be fully achieved and then we will be able to say that we have come closer to that moment and that we are at least 5% more maritime land because then we will all feel better together. Of course, I also believe that this part can be significantly arranged, and if I have correctly interpreted the exception set out in Article 9(3), I believe that it can be fixed. If I'm not, then we'll get a clear explanation. The bill is also, it is said, in line with the Paris Memorandum of Port Control, which is also good, it is in line with modern national rules such as the Executive Act, the Law on Property and other real rights, etc. Those instruments that have been mentioned so far in a debate such as the Coast Guard that it as one of the essential regulatory measures in terms of the application of supervision and control and the orientation of this law will be. I think it has absolutely proved that the introduction of the coast guard is necessary, that such a system is necessary for the space that Croatia has available and that it is in fact the only form that all these resources are included and the fishing-environmental zone is brought into that order and that all these proposals contained in the Maritime Code can be realised, that the necessary effective strong, fast and fully independent in terms of its actions by the maritime guard is necessary. I would not want to enter the way of its pyramid or its contents which it will consist of, I think we have enough experience in neighbouring countries and that their practice in terms of efficiency but also problems can be a good guideline for Croatia not to make mistakes, even if not where it can use other people's mistakes and they are always better used than relying on their own. So, expecting that I did not want to list now possible interventions in terms of what would be said to be working legislation, or our people working on those ships, but I believe that this part can indeed be reconciled and that we can have one quality law that will serve everyone together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20401	Thank you, dear colleague Markov. It is up to a respected colleague first, Doric, then a colleague of Lesar or vice versa, on behalf of the HNS-PGS Club. Here you go, Comrade Lesar!
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20402	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, dear Mr. Minister! I'm very glad the minister stays six hours in the Parliament when his law is under review. And in this part, I will look back at the request of the Union of Seamen of Croatia and pass on some of their remarks that they have on to this Law although they have worked intensively in preparing this Law with final solutions are not satisfied to the end. But I must point out that this is a union that in 91, as a member of ATF, has largely helped to prevent ATF from introducing a boycott of ships, Croatian ships under a foreign flag, interpreting this as a flag of convenience, but has introduced a new term of emergency flag and thus all Croatian ships that have entered the flag were not boycotted by one of the strongest maritime organisations in the world. This Law, therefore, which we are talking about, which we are mostly talking about in terms of about 1150 Croatian ships under which, according to my information, the minister said 33 ships still under the foreign flag of somewhere probably a million gross tonnes, perhaps a little less now but not much less. And I agree that Croatia's primary goal is to return all ships under Croatian flags but I would also have to tell the sailors, return Croatian sailors to Croatian national legislation. Namely, on the right of sailors, the ship's flag law applies to the right of crew members, so that all Croatian sailors who sail on ships, Croatian ships, Croatian shipmen under the flag are not covered by Croatian flags. I don't know if this is the Code, or the Law, because in relation to the former Maritime Code or the now applicable pardon, there is no part of the regulation that would give him the right to be called a Code, so perhaps, and that, in the light of the law, it would be good to think that after the adoption of the Law on the Sea Good, this would be the Law of the Sea and not the Law of the Sea, he doesn't have to be right, but you yourself have given great reasons and a great part of the law that is now in the other legislation. So what's the problem with the sailors? First. The labour law of the Republic of Croatia does not apply or generally does not apply to seamen because if the organisation of work on board was applied, it would be almost impossible. And therefore there are also chapters in this Act of Article 125 and beyond because this is a special law and they could not be covered by the Labour Act. Another problem is employment mediation. The seafarers also believe that the existing Croatian law on employment mediation should be updated urgently and ratified by the International Labour Organisation Convention No. 181. ... 9, 16 and 75 of this 181 is necessary. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Because the Croatian Employment Service does not intervene in the employment of Croatian sailors on Croatian ships, Croatian shipmen sailing under a foreign flag, and who have been on foreign flags these 15 years and today. Therefore, sailors on those 33 ships under the foreign flag were not employed and were not under their employment under the supervision of the Croatian Employment Service. Although the same law only allows HZZ, the Croatian Employment Service has the right to intervene in the employment of sailors. And that's why 95% of our sailors have so far been employed on Croatian ships, under a foreign flag through agents which is illegal, which cost them a certain amount of dollars. And I'm told that even some agents have been able to register to intervene in the employment of sailors by justifying that the agent has the right to supply the ship, so under the supply of the ship it was interpreted and supplied to the crew. Such two agents in Croatia have valid employment mediation registrations. They say that even some shipmen intercede in the employment of sailors on board ships that are owned and under the flag of the company "CHERI" our Croatian sailors, via our shipowners, the company "CHER" has a flag and not a Croatian Employment Service. Another problem. Mandatory health insurance. The Croatian Health Insurance Office does not recognise a shipowner or insurance club as a foreign insurance carrier. And not based on the law, and not on the basis of the regulations, but on the decisions of the Board of Directors and Directors, and the ship sails under the flag of the Croatian shipowners with Croatian sailors, and they are not granted the right, and the latter requires them to pay for health contributions but not 15% like all in Croatia we pay but on average 32%. On the basis of which a bureaucraticly defined school prepares the road coefficient and it seems to me that the starting base is taken the lowest salary and 1951 kuna, respectively. But at the same time for the medical services of treatment on board and at the port where it is necessary, it is not the obligation of the shipowner and not the scientific insurance company in Croatia, so the Croatian Institute for Scientific Osgiuation. Also not by law, but by the internal act of the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance. 4. Peace insurance. The payer for pension insurance contributions is not an employer, not a shipowner, but a sailor, a crew member. And because of the internal pension insurance regulation, he cannot afford to pay himself a two-month-long benefits per 12 months, and that is why the 65-year-old retirement rule applies. A sailor on board at 65 as well as a flight attendant, so we understand each other. After 50 sailors will not receive a contract from any Croatian shipman from any foreign shipman. And they'd like to pay themselves the benefits, the increased contributions, they can't because they're bonds, not employers. And finally. Let's return the ships under the Croatian flag, Minister of honor, I agree. But I also ask you, by this Law, but also in agreement, that is, within the Government of different resolutions, to help the other ministers and other resolutions return and seamen to Croatian national legislation and the seamen concerned. And finally. Article 134(2), point 2., concerning the permitted quantity of alcohol of captains, crew members, ship, yachts and boats. Although I don't know if a crew member when he's not in the service is referring to him by this provision. I don't understand why, I was asked by people from Međimurje this evening whether these 0.5 apply to ships in Mura, Drava and Lake Međimurje. I explained to them that it wasn't the sea, but I guess so. But now I realized when I saw this proposal this summer I was on a boat on the Adriatic, not a big one, and when I asked the ship's owner what rules were worth, and the minister himself said that Jadran had become a highway on the water and indeed as many boats, yachts, as on the highways that led me to Zadar, there was so much about Zadar, Pakostane, Biograd. So what rules apply here? Say it like this: just one thing! When you see that you're doing a big run, when you see that he's smaller than you are. We continue our fellow Doric in the interests of the ship.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20403	Here's your colleague, Doric.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20404	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Minister, distinguished members of the government, colleagues and colleagues. I don't know how many minutes I have left. ... Mr. Lesar has consumed a lot of things for me and he's moved to promiscuity was at the end, but what I'd like to say is what I'd really like to say, and what I'd really like to do is maybe atypically start, but I don't think we should always start with criticism. [[/The intruder doesn't understand.]] This time we colleagues and colleagues received this extensive material, this code long before this session was clearly held. We had time to read the material, multiply it, distribute it and really represent our citizens, their companies, their institutions, and so on. So here's what our club just got into. My colleague, Lesar, has been consulting sailors and the union. I was assigned to do the same with the boaters. And I must say that I was really surprised when I collected and received feedback that the shipowners were extremely pleased with this bill or bill of law. I'm extremely pleased. The vast material of all together may be 5.6 sentences or requires that 5.6 articles be changed a little harder. I've prepared the written text here, Mr. Minister, so I'll give you that you don't have to hunt me down. Hoping that this will clearly contribute to this work on this code in the period up to the second reading. What I could say is that some kind of synthesis of what they told me is next. They believe that praise has indeed been made for a valuable job in the last two years to prepare this Code, that the Maritime Code is now truly in line with the movements in the world by introducing a number of significant changes that should ensure the competitiveness of shipowners in international navigation on the world market and meet the European Union's criteria of course. They think that's where it was done at this first stage of a really big job. However, they do not diminish the importance of the work they consider not to have adopted part of the ship's proposal because they were obviously consulted in some stages of this law. In particular, they point out that no part of the ship's proposal has been adopted to improve the operating conditions relating to customs duties and VAT on imports of ships, spare parts and services, which are yet to be refurbished by most shipowners. It's almost more important than part of those proposals that's been accepted. And that's why they practically asked me to bring you here and underline their request that right at the import of the ship when it certainly refers only to those ships in international navigation, only to those ships, that customs or value added tax should not be paid. This should also apply to ships flying the flag of imports of equipment and spare parts which are incorporated into those ships. The same should apply to services provided by a ship which is also registered exclusively as a ship in international navigation. For goods purchased for installation and consumption on those same ships, that is to say, in conjunction with Article 428. They suggest that he be complemented. Then, of course, they did something different but the Syndicate thought when it came to crew members. They suggest, of course, that when it comes to applying and checking out pension and health insurance that, in order to be equal with their colleagues in other countries, they should essentially be members of the crew who will report and sign out for that insurance, not the shipowner. But Mr. Lesar spoke very extensively about it, so I wouldn’t repeat myself much. I think we should respect each other, respect the union's position, it's crucial here. And finally an important different attitude compared to what a colleague from HSP said compared to sewing. Compared to seizing because they explicitly underline that Croatian ports will be in a difficult position if we go to this line that is proposed, especially if it would go to an even more restrictive position taken by a colleague from HSP because they believe that the ship over 200, 2000 tonnes should also be allowed to go without walking, provided that, as in many European ports, the commanders are allowed to pass the pelar exam. This applies exclusively to those ships that regularly land in a port because the ship’s clear cost is now increasing. Therefore, the hard-line shipowners would be even and clearly there would be no avoidance of Croatian ports precisely and only because of this item. That's what I'm going to give you here again in writing. I wouldn't repeat what our club said because we already gave our remarks to the Maritime, Transport and Communications Committee. Mr. Cacic talked about it. First of all, it concerns two significant objections which we have in mind that this code does not adequately treat the position of nuclear, nuclear-powered ships as well as ships that clearly have nuclear weapons on them. I also think that perhaps a lot more effort should be made to define or define the territorial sea because we are allowed under the International Maritime Law. We can draw a straight line from an apple and in this way it is important, important to change clearly our territorial sea. Here, we know what it means to a neighbor, but it can be done. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20405	Thank you. My colleagues and colleagues, we've finished the debate by the club's representatives. In consultations with counterpart Bebić, we agreed to interrupt the session now, and tomorrow we will continue the individual discussions at 9:30. Thank you very much. And rest well and prepare for tomorrow's debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20406	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we will proceed with the session's work. And the debates on the Marine Code proposal. It is up to Commissioner Ingrid Antičević Marinović. She's gone. He's losing his word. Dear Representative Nenad Stazic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20407	Thank you very much. Dear President of the Parliament. Describing the proposal for the maritime code, Minister Kalmeta said the proposal was also in line with the attitudes of the maritime union. However, this union has significant objections to some articles of this proposed law. And I think it would be a good idea to take another reading of that remark and take another look at it. The sea code itself is otherwise well prepared, it is a serious law, large by its content. It should be admitted that most of this work has been done in the past government by about 70%. He should give credit to this government for continuing this business, complete the bill. And in a short time there were eight months when she entered the cabinet to the Parliament. I will only question some of the union's objections for the purposes of this debate because I think they matter. The Maritime Union proposes to amend the provisions of Article 145 which regulate damage. In the event of a body injury and a disturbance to the ship's health. And they suggest that part of the article that says that the damage must occur in work and in relation to work. The applicability of a purely practical nature and repairs. Namely, in determining the damage that will later be determined on the terms of the trade unions responsible for this area. It's gonna have to be proven if the damage just happened in connection with the work. Look, there's a sailor on board, there's some kind of accident that he was just in... If he was at work or not at work, it could be the object of the dispute. [[/the speaker doesn't understand.]] It's completely unnecessary. While he's at work, he does whatever the hour is, whether he's busy, whether he's doing some work or not. What if the damage happens at night, when it doesn't work, there's some kind of accident then they wouldn't eventually have, after the court's decision, the right to compensation for damages. There are sailors to protect, not to go as far on the hands of a boatman as this law went, it's good to protect and shipmen. But in this relationship between shipmen and seamen, sailors must not be forgotten. And it must not be granted to shipmen at the expense of the seamen. This part of the article should therefore be discarded. Right on the union's suggestion. The Union proposes to add another item in the same article, paragraph 4. Which would say that, apart from the damage shipman referred to in paragraph 1, these are the damages we were talking about, a solid match would be given to the employer. So when an employer is already introduced into the maritime code, which is good, then responsibility for damage should also be transferred to it in solidarity. Especially since sailors demand that their status be brought as close as possible to the status of other employees in the Republic of Croatia, they are not in a more unfavourable position than others. And their request is justified. Well, look, we have a law on work that says. In Article 21, he says. The employer is obliged to obtain and maintain facilities, equipment tools, place of work and access to the place of work and organise work in a way that ensures the protection of the life and health of workers. In accordance with the specific laws and regulations and the nature of the work being carried out. So now if it's an employer owed in all other spheres, why don't you be in this sphere too. So if he doesn't carry out his obligation if he doesn't meet it neatly as the labour law suggests, then he has to answer with solidarity for the damage that would result from such a failure. The sailors suggest something else, look, the sailor gets a contract and now he's going on board, from the place of residence to the place of boarding the ship. So far this, as you suggest he would not have been and the case law is such that he in disputes conducted before commercial courts, is not during that period until boarding the ship he is not a member of the crew. He's not a member of the ship's crew, and he doesn't belong to rights that belong to him normally as a crew member. The moment he gets on board. Seafarers suggest that this article be amended, and that the seamen be protected and during this period, means from the moment he sets foot on the road, from the place of residence until the time when the status of crew member is officially not obtained, i.e. Until he boards the ship. Court practice has shown by sailors that during this period they were not protected enough, so here they suggest that this article be amended and protected during that period. I suggest you consider these observations by the seamen. And get them into another law reading. I have in law and a whole series of things, a little thing that should be fixed that act horny sometimes and funny, sometimes absurd. I won't list them all. But point out only one example. See Article 23, which speaks of the safe passage of a foreign water facility, the reference is to a water facility that takes off, lands or accepts any aircraft. It's probably the aircraft carriers that accept the plane but the aircraft carriers don't even take off or land. He's just sailing, so if it's about the aircraft carrier and we have a Croatian expression for that type of ship then let's get him into the maritime code and call him what he's called. The carrier of the plane. So there it is in those introductory provisions where you define terms, so if you need to define it. But in any case, it would not remain in the law for ships to take off or land. Because they don't, and the code turns out to be funny. So I'm asking you to read this a little bit more carefully and correct this kind of ruckus. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20408	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the respected representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20409	I thank Mr. President, my colleague Stazic has incorrectly stated that the former government has prepared 90% of this law. It's completely incorrect, namely the former government didn't lift a finger for this law. It is true that this law began to prepare in 1998. His preparations ended in 1999, and all the former authorities had done was let her first reading somewhere at the beginning of her term, the prepared HDZ law. The arrival of a new government, early this year, has been amended, in line with international conventions signed in the meantime with other laws and enriched with new proposals and is therefore good, not because you have established it. So it's completely incorrect what you said.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20410	Honorable representative of Shima Luchin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20411	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, I would actually tend to those who have assessed this bill as very important, and even with a qualitative shift forward, with the fact that I think of Croatian citizens, especially for sailors, boaters, boaters, sailors, it doesn't matter what government has brought it. Because if you read this law, you'll actually see that he doesn't have and that this is one of the rarest laws that doesn't matter, or I would dare to show any political connotations and actually that you can't put him in any political box. This is first of all the law of the profession. I see this first reading that everyone who knows anything about this or, say, living at sea, etc. They say, perhaps reading this law and what seemed important to them from life as a specific suggestion to actually get a quality relationship. This is a quality law that actually regulates very important relations and very important activities related to the sea, coasts. I don't think anyone here should explain the natural economic potential of the Adriatic. And by regulating the relations and activities of the Adriatic the protection of the Adriatic is ensured, but also certain economic effects, because every potential is potential until the moment it is used or spent. And I think that, among other things, this law should have that role and the function of not spending that potential, but being used rationally. This law, according to my humble assessment, belongs to a group of better-quality laws that came into this House and I have no more significant objections to this law. But knowingly, I would dare say, one of the basic problems of Croatian laws and legislation, or better to say their execution, is that I am more concerned with how to ensure that this law is implemented adequately. Now, before you think about how much space it's about, what kind of activity it's all about. Therefore, I think that both underlaws and all that is foreseen as a post-work after the adoption of this law should pay due attention. Personally, it seems to me that the deadlines that are scheduled for the adoption of sublegal acts are little, that they are a little too long. I'm no expert in all these parts, but it seems to me that in a year, one number of sublegal acts can be brought in and I don't know why it would take more than a year or three years. The second aspect of the implementation of this law is this. If you keep in mind that there are 8 port captains and 60 and some port facilities in Croatia with over 300 employees, and when you also remember that there are tens of thousands of kilometers in the area, I don't know how many when you count islands, nearly 6,000 coastal areas, I'm not sure those 300 people with the means they have can adequately ensure the implementation of this law. So I join all those who have been speaking about this law in favour of forming, as quickly as possible forming a coast guard, and I think now is the chance not to, in six or seven months, because the minister announced somewhere in that time the establishment of a coast guard, that we need to re-change this law that I said would be even better, although it is good, after the second reading, or adoption, that we must change it again. I therefore propose to the promoter that, possibly in the final and transitional provisions, it is therefore envisaged that, I do not know, entities that care about navigation, security and everything that regulates this law, in fact, will be replaced in a certain period with a new institution, or agency, but will be, such as the Coast Guard. I also plead to the promoters that, since the shipowners are satisfied with this law, it would not be a bad thing to do another step to get sailors who should also be satisfied with this law, not only because Croatian sailors are people who know their job well, who are valued in the world and therefore also because of tradition, and that this tradition continues as successfully as possible. I think some shifts, and if there's a bill being made, it won't be big money. Maybe it shouldn't be just one dilemma left, not to say the bitterness of actually that this law tends only to shipowners, so owners, and not to those who work, employers, and not to those who work on these ships. Well, let's say, here's another remark maybe about that, I think there was something about that, too, about piloting. I know the shipmen with that solution are satisfied. Normally, it reduces the price, costs, etc. But I think, okay, there are some world standards around this pilotage, the shipowner won't get into the port normally, if he has to pay the pilots, etc., but when it comes to dangerous burdens, when it comes to dangerous burdens, I don't think there should be an exemption from piloting, because it just actually decreases, reduces the risk. Especially with regard to environmental protection, environmental protection of the Adriatic, this law speaks a lot of things. I think the variant should be considered, regardless of Croatia's ambition regarding NATO and everything else, to try to see and find the modeality to ban ships from entering the Adriatic by nuclear drive. We know when it comes to nuclear-powered ships, that it's basically big ships, that it's basically military ships, and that they're not just carrying with them the danger of potentially some nuclear-excess, but something else. Otherwise, it seems to me that this law on the launch of warships is too much of a power, that it is too serious to allow the minister to decide which 3 ships and in what period, so the minister gives permission to those 3 ships that can stay in Croatian waters at the same time or that can cross waterways, for example through the territorial sea. I think that should be decided by the government after all. Because eventually the minister can be confused, so let's say during the tourist season he lets some kind of ship into some kind of tourist port, but I don't think the government could make that kick. Otherwise, it's one of my same remarks, I think in this law too many powers are given to the minister. Here, I'll take one more example. This is an example that the minister regulates the age of ships that can be introduced into Croatia. I have nothing against it and it's good to see old timers and old yachts, boats on the Adriatic, but I'm not so sure it's good to see, so old tankers etc. I know that there's technical rules that predict it. Unfortunately, we have no insight, I personally have no insight into these technical rules, probably those from that branch have. I wouldn't want it to happen in Croatia, as we do in road traffic to drive old buses on Croatian roads. I would hate for the Adriatic to be driven by old ships, or driven by them, to sail them more than it does today. Otherwise there are some things in the law that can easily be changed. I don't know why a travel ticket or a luggage would have to be issued at the request of a person who buys, travels or transfers luggage. I think you should stand there... at the request of passengers than the ticket must be issued mandatory. Maybe two other things that seem to me like there's space in this law and opportunity to get rid of them better. About the wild anchoring, I don't think it's said enough. We have a problem on the Adriatic, especially yachts and small boats, as well as large to anchor us in every wave, in every harbor, and even in part at sea where we should never be anchored. I think there should be certain mechanisms to regulate this thing. The other thing that I think is also important, which was a little bit of a matter, which is the overrun of the sea. We're meeting on the beach today with stealing the sea. The sea is being stolen from you by soaring and actually someone with little and no money gets some kind of plot, some kind of land. Since I'm running out of time, something about a farm. I think...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20412	Thank you very much, dear colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20413	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20414	The Honorable Representative of the Shima Rifle.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20415	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. Here we finally have a whole law of some 1040 articles that, for the first time in our practice, is in line with all the participants along with these little remarks we hope for because the first reading is that we will be able to bring them into line by the second reading and I believe that we will finally be able to bring this Maritime Code together. It is worth saying today and reminding what this code once again regulates for the sake of the Croatian public, and especially for those who do not understand the problems of the sea, because it is known that many of the sayings have come from our Adriatic when it is said that sailors have bread with nine crusts, and also that when they put their fingers in the sea that they have a connection with the world. This in itself illustrates the weight of problems and lives in this area, and especially what seafaring has been globalized in all social systems since the very beginning of the Croatian sailing vessels to the world seas. This also means that it had to be regulated by world standards in every way and that today we are trying to achieve several goals. The first goal, and this primary goal, is to protect Croatian shipkeeping and seafaring with all the details that go into it, and the second goal is to align it with European and global legislative practices. So in no way would I agree to say that this is a alignment with Europe or a approximation. It should continue to point out that Croatia is ahead and it seems to me that the first legal solutions in the world have been made by Croats in maritime insurance. And also in many other areas we've come before, unfortunately today we've come here at this time and in a situation where we're in and we should just say that with this solution today we're making assumptions about getting out of the situation that we're in today. Here's Europe, when we're compatriots, and often we like to say it, Europe is very much preparing different legal solutions to protect its shipowners, sailors, seamen, and in order to in some way secure the capital that will come out of these banks and be placed in the sea. They say that the Basel Committee, which has prepared new rules for protection of capital, which is extremely important because Croatia does not have its own capital, prescribes very rigorous conditions for the protection of capital and our shipowners and sailors are very much exposed to this particular pressure, i.e. that global trend in the movement of capital. Why? So this capital requires extremely sharp protection conditions and that is the mortgage problem and that is the problem why Croatian ships cannot come under the Croatian flag. It's precisely because that capital requires a safe mortgage so that it can be charged at any moment. It should also be recalled that the basis of these rules will in the future be very difficult to get to capital and that is another reason why we need to bring our legislation together as soon as possible to meet the conditions for the arrival of ships under the Croatian flag, as well as mortgages that could quickly be realised. So we create an assumption, but there will still be opportunities for certain ships to remain under the world's flag or those protection flags. I would also say that this code is the operationalisation of Croatia's strategy, the long-term maritime strategy and that it is the first step in the implementation of this strategy. We have heard and it seems to me as a financier that the fundamental issue that needs to be addressed in this code, the tax issue and tax exemptions, especially for shipmen sailing the world's seas. Why? Croatia mostly makes everything come true, we mean boaters sailing the world's seas, making all their incomes on the world's seas. Thus, they are exposed to global competition and must have conditions that world competition has. There are few activities that have so-called activities. moral amortisation or moral obsolescence in which fleet restoration must be done quickly and must be adapted to world trends, e.g. in the distribution of liquid and dangerous burdens and many others. Therefore, shipowners are forced to invest quickly, and in order to be able to invest quickly they must have special advantages precisely in order to get the part that will go into reinvestment we must release and create the conditions of its investment and return. But the part that will be paid through dividends, of course this code suggests taxing. Finally, this has been the case so far when consolidated balances of all those shipowners that had ships registered in countries or flags of convenience were being made. So even today, this is just concreteising the legal regulation of situations that we have actually had so far. The second question is the labour issue. We've heard a lot of good suggestions and remarks today. We will have more, I have some amendments and we will give even in these amendments already predict some of the labour problems. But it is impossible for us to say this publicly, impossible to regulate labour rights by virtue of the domestic labour law or any other law. People sail on world seas, Croatia is an exporter of sailors and they are mostly on world fleets. Therefore, we cannot regulate such conditions under the same laws under which the labour force is regulated in Croatia, we must be aware of that. We must optimally protect the seamen, but in no way can we fully regulate labour rights as do people who are employed on land and who work in Croatia. The second question of all the rights that arise, and that is very nice, and I hope that we will agree in the amendments, regulate the rights of the seamen through various additives, i.e. through particularly pension and health care and their families, but I believe that in these proposals and amendments, we can also regulate it with a maritime supplement, and I think it is very nice that we can coordinate this and that we will deal with it in the next time. The protection in Europe is already being carried out by many maritime countries, particularly in maritime protection, especially the Paris, Berlin axis, and other maritime countries, so that they are all already preparing laws to protect their shipmen, their seafarers, so Croatia must go as soon as possible. The question of competition and globalisation is raised. In the introduction, I said that there is no activity, I think of Croatia, which is more exposed to globalisation and longer exposed to globalisation than it is to the sea. Therefore, all goods offered in transport shall be offered under the same conditions to all shipmen of the world and also, the labour force employed by the shipowners of the world must have similar conditions. International regulations prescribe a limit to which corporate taxes can go, as well as the obligations of seamen on those ships. Therefore, both the workforce and their rights will be regulated later and under the legal acts that will follow after this. We find it important that this law should finally be passed as soon as possible for reasons to be exposed. Allow only three reasons as long as I have time because it's too extensive a substance. It is often mentioned and will be mentioned the causes of the collapse of Croatia's seafaring especially in the last 10 years. I would define three key causes. The first is the world's maritime market, especially scattered or so-called, raw burdens, but also liquid burdens. It should be noted that in this time almost the same time in world competition have fallen to the lowest level in the history of train fares in grey cargo. That, recently, the rise in oil prices has only just increased the prices of freight trains and precisely for the reason that our shipowners will practically not engage in the production of shiploads. And double-bottom ships, especially after the Prestige disaster, begin today exclusively and I think by 2012, a complete replacement of the fleet, the current fleets with double-bottom ships, must be completed. And therefore, the world market situation, number two, is who knows little about the seaship of the famous DIAB, which practically completed the Croatian fleet with mortgages because it had its mortgages in all the boaters and pulled out the most valuable ships. That's another reason. And the third reason is certainly Croatia's attitude towards the sea, and we hope that Croatia will finally show that it is a maritime country and that such legal solutions will ultimately allow equal competition with world conditions. So we want right now that we can even compete with the world as we've done so far and one...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20416	Thank you very much, thank you very much. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20417	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I have to correct the quote of my fellow Wrestler that this Maritime Code proposal is in line with all the interested partners. This simply could not have been accepted as accuracy because the debate on this Law began yesterday afternoon where a large number of clubs, and yesterday the debate was conducted by clubs, warned of the fact that as far as the part of the Law that regulates the rights of sailors is concerned, that part of the Law was not in conformity with the Croatian Maritime Union. In particular, in the part of intervening the employment of health and pension insurance, and I want to believe that until the second reading and that part of the Law will be as consistent as possible with one of the most significant social partners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20418	Thank you. Replica, the esteemed representative of Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20419	Look, it's true that we can't protect the seamen when they board ships of foreign ships. But there's no point in justifying something you can't justify. We can protect the seamen when they board ships of domestic shipmen. There's no reason not to respect legitimate demands. For example, in the definition of crew where it is said that the crew of the ship are made up of a commander and other persons boarded to carry out operations on board and registered in the crew list, a provision is added by means of a written contract of work. Why don't we protect the sailors in such a way as to have the law prescribed they have to have a contract, a labor contract? Like every other employee has to do when they're employed at any other firm. Why would he, just because a sailor, have to work without a valid job contract? Excuse me, which defines him some special rights and which further protects him. Therefore, this finding of yours is not entirely unequal. Well, it's impossible to even up in all parts, but where extra protection is possible, it needs to be achieved. And in that sense, there's no excuse for now giving the Ministry or the Government an apology for why it wasn't done. That should be fixed by the second reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20420	Thank you. Replicate response, respected representative of the Arthrial Shima.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20421	Well, colleague, I'm glad you're such a well-known seaman and you can make your contribution to solving maritime issues. But it seems to me that you are insufficiently known in all parts and that one part of the problems that arises, whether in the domestic fleet or in the seas that sail under a foreign flag, will be domestically under a foreign flag, but on world seas. And a third group of sailors sailing on foreign ships and under foreign flags. It is impossible to regulate this Code, and therefore part of this problem must be regulated by sublegal acts, but respecting the situation that it is a labour force on foreign ships and that Croatia is unfortunately an exporter of seamen and that this part of the sea that goes outside can also not regulate this Code. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20422	Thank you. Secretary of State Branko Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20423	Your Honor, Mr. President, gentlemen of the Parliament. However, I would like to explain, given that the topic of concern, if we can say so, of seamen in the Maritime Code, is insufficient to explain a few things that the Ministry has prepared by preparing this Maritime Code proposal for its first reading, which was all done in part with shipowners and part with trade unions. First of all, I need to say that this Maritime Code, or the proposal for a maritime code, which is first regulated in history for the first time by one law that represents the lex specialis law, that the safety of navigation and sailing for the sea includes two categories. One refers to the part which, which implies regulating the relationship in the ship's business. And we heard, here, from most of the MPs that this part was very well solved. We think that through this section relating to the determination of the mode of operation of the shipowner, in the first row, which we can bear in mind the fact that this Naval Code frees shipowners from paying taxes, if that profit is retained or reinvested. But if boaters share dividends, they pay taxes at the same rate as all other companies do. Therefore, it seems to us precisely that from the way it happened, this is what Mr Prtvenjača used to say, when in the world of coaches that practically determine the revenues of cyclical shipowners are changing, that for those years when boaters are almost unable to do what was the case in the late 1990s when large Croatian shipping houses failed. How I can't do that, so when the weather changes, when these railways are significantly larger, then it can be reinvested in the fleet at that time, so that the flora can be restored. In order to simply enable, therefore, that, through such a way of resolving their business and determining the way in which the tax on profits can be charged, it can be facilitated for the ship's business. And to a large extent, such conditions can and are even and dared to say and take a step above the appropriate regulatory legislation in the world's maritime powers. However, what most parliamentary deputies did not accept, either disagrees or maintains that this Naval Code does not accept well enough, does not accept the demands of the maritime unions, I must say something. We wanted to unite both shipmen and seamen and us in the Ministry in order to draft a proposal of the Maritime Code that would be satisfactory for both shipowners and trade unions. To date, this should also be said, so far, not a single Maritime Code which has been in force, neither in its amendments nor in the proposal that was in the Parliament, which was proposed by the former Government to the Parliament when it was first read neither touched the shipowner's business nor the proposal of the Maritime Code, which was in the previous term, in the first reading, resolved the possibility of equating conditions in business, so it did not provide for the exemption from the reinvestment tax or retained profits, nor did it mention what was very important for the absolute labour and social rights resulting from the working and social rights of the seamen on those ships. Therefore, this proposal of the Maritime Code first indicates the possibility that certain labour and social rights are entered, recorded in the maritime code. The dilemma was next when we were working on the proposal of the Maritime Code, whether the Maritime Code should only be the Law of the Legislator for the Safety of Navigation, for the Seafarers, for the determination of the public legal part of the Maritime Code, or whether it should contain certain elements which touch tax policy on the one hand and on the other hand social labour rights governed by the laws, which deal with labour relations. This is why, together with other ministries, we have entered the Maritime Code as a legion of specialities of the Law on the Safety of Sailing and Maritime Affairs and with provisions affecting shipowners and seamen. For the first time in this Maritime Code, Croatian seamen should indicate this, they have the law required that the shipowner is required to apply to the Croatian Institute for Health and Pension Insurance of Shipowners at the time when he is employed and registered. For the first time, boating law will depend on how high the Croatian government will establish the altitude of the maritime supplement, practically increasing the non-taxable part of the salary significantly with such a solution, the untaxable part of the income. The fact is that the trade unions, together with the shipowners, are very important to mention, agreed that at the moment when the shipowner reports a single seaman to the Croatian Pension and Health Insurance Office, the payment of pension and health contributions remains on the seaboard, so he contracts gross wages with him, and the need for, the obligation to pay pension and health insurance remains on the seaboard, is also regulated in countries, and in other countries where Croatian sailors sail, and at the moment, there are 27 thousand Croatian sailors who are mostly united in the maritime union, and of them 27 thousand, approximately 3 and 4 thousand sail on Croatian ships. Therefore, for the first time in the maritime code, provision is made that the Government of the Republic of Croatia is obliged to prescribe a height of a maritime supplement introduced as a new institute in this Maritime Code and the obligation of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to prescribe the height of a maritime supplement, which would practically allow for an extremely increased non-taxable part of income and thus practically reduces the salary of each seaman. This Maritime Code also allowed the salary of a seafarer to be accounted for in dollars, as well as other states, in the maritime states. What should be mentioned, however, is that until the second reading, when it comes to the rights, the requirements of the seamen's unions and seamen, they will be discussed with them and those requests that the seamen have sought and which they do not have to say agree with the ship's shipmen until the first reading, and this is definitely about the demand and attitude of the seamen to hurt themselves on board, no matter what time they happen, considers injuries at work, and in that sense the responsibility of the employer is certainly extended to those injuries. We will also hold a meeting with the seamen by the second reading, and I think it is the fact that for the first time their labour rights are being entered into the Maritime Code, it is a major step forward, and then we will clearly seek to reach a consensus between shipowners and unions to satisfy that part by then. As for the extent to which it is necessary to enter the Maritime Code into that work and social part of the rights of the seamen, I think, firstly, that all the maritime laws in the section relating to the crew of the law, the act governing the number of crews on board, which determines their qualification of duties and powers, because so far they have been the Maritime Codes, and all the proposals of the maritime laws that have come into this House, and we say with this proposal we have taken a step forward, and in addition to these obligations, in addition to those provisions which regulate the number of crew members, their duty, qualifications, the obligations of a certain crew member on board, we have taken a step further, we are entering the social and labour rights of that union, therefore, we cannot accept in the Ministry and the Government that this Naval Code is showing great concern to the shipmen, and we are relatively less concerned with the trades. This claim does not stand, for the simple reason that practically in the 15 years of the existence of the Croatian State, for the first time in the Maritime Code, the provisions guaranteeing seamen through this Maritime Code will have certain rights, already in the Maritime Code itself, and I would say in the rank of countries that have already resolved maritime regulation. And it's just that when I talk about this part later, we're going to look at other comments from this debate, but when I talk about the part relating to the rights of the seamen, I have to say that here with this Maritime Code we've established the Institute of Maritime Supplement, I've talked about it before, but by the second reading we'll certainly try to solve it in a more systematic, more quality way, the height of the non-taxable part of the income tax, or through the existing Tax Law, to address the issue of these reductions in the giving of the seamen resulting from the Treaty of Labour with the shipowners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20424	Thank you. Honourable representative Zvonimir Puljic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20425	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary of State. After a little over 10 years, here comes the Maritime Code again, which many call the Maritime Constitution. The impressive chamber of 1032 legal articles divided into 12 chapters, which regulates the whole sea navigation relationship and the participants. Croatia has reason to be proud of its maritime tradition, as well as its contribution to maritime law. The first law in the world on boat insurance was passed in Dubrovnik. So that is why the Ministry commends this zeal in creating and modifying the Maritime Code, because this is why Croatia holds the reinting that was mentioned in the example from the Dubrovnik Republic that was achieved at the very beginning. The ten-year application of the Maritime Code has, however, revealed some inaccuracies and inaccuracies in otherwise well-processed legal matter, and since the adoption of the 1994 Law, we have ratified some international conventions whose content was also the cause of the need for harmonisation. Our status as a candidate for membership in the European Union points us to harmonisation and to the European Community's policy towards shipping. The more these changes coincide with our strategy and efforts to create competitive operating conditions and get closer or equal to the conditions that shipowners have in non-taxable world centres under the flags of convenience. Despite the scope and comprehensiveness of the legal matter processed in this Law in the media, complaints could be raised that the law did not cover, for example, coast guard, and then measures to prevent the Black Charter. However, despite the well-meaning of these objections, I thus assess them not, as much as the Coast Guard, for example, does not belong to the Maritime Code, since other maritime and navigation institutions that already exist and the law has established special laws, so the same thing will be with the Coast Guard. The Black Charter will certainly be suppressed to one acceptable measure, if not completely eradicated also by the Law of the Sea and the measures that would be in it, there is a foundation, on which the ministry will adopt the Regulation, so an operational act which would also be followed by this unwanted phenomenon is suppressed. Here it was made in a provision in one provision of decisions that only ships and yachts under the Croatian flag can handle, and that is the basis for this Regulation which would have been eradicated by the Black and Grey Charter. Of these many 12 chapters, I would refer only to those I personally consider to be the most important and can be placed at this time necessary, or allowed for discussion. In the first place, I would lay down the provisions of Articles 428 to 429 which exempt shipowners carrying out international navigation from taxes on re-invented and retained profits. I think it's a good step and an incentive to create more favourable conditions for shipowners who operate in the harsh international competition. They are driven in this way by the purchase of new ships, the restoration of our fleet, and the creation of reserves for periods during which shipping is objectively in crisis. This is in line with the tax policy and the European Community towards shipping, which allows for exceptions in the tax systems when it comes to shipping. Because all European countries, maritime states such as Great Britain, Italy, the Netherlands, Germany, Greece and Spain and others, give tax reliefs to shipping companies and seamen. Because it's the most competitive city in the global world economy. So it is essential for the ship to survive in that world game to meet the conditions in which the costs can be reduced to a global level. And also enable them to take over within the legal regime in which they operate loans on the world money market. Therefore, these measures include Articles 127 and 129 which regulate and receive seafarers, as well as the tax releases a maritime supplement which increases the total income of seamen, i.e. their non-taxable part and thus improves the status of employees. Then, by extending the contents of the rights of creditors of the maritime mortgage, the right to out-of-court sale of the ship has been modified by the maritime mortgage institute in such a way as to allow Croatian shipowners more favourable financial arrangements, which means more favourable conditions for new ships to increase our fleet. These measures create conditions to increase the competitiveness of our shipowners, stop the reduction and encourage the renewal of the fleet, and speed up the return of Croatian ships under the Croatian flag. This will result in a significant economic benefit directly from strengthening the economy and its revenues, as well as those accompanied by shipping services, such as port services, expeditions, agency services, Stivador services, maritime insurance services, classification services, supply, piloting, remonting and shipbuilding. And that I do not longer support this law, because it will certainly create a positive shift in shipping as well as in Croatia's economy in total.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20426	Thank you. Dear Representative Perica Bukic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20427	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. You don't have to live, but you have to sail. Most of us who are from the sea and who come from there hear this saying countless times, and I'm sure it's rare that those who haven't heard it at all. As of course today, it is not even close to the time when Croatian sailors went out to beat the sea and bring leftover families bread with 7 crusts. However, this is precisely why I would like to point out by supporting the proposed legislative proposal that Croatia as a state which has clearly and unequivocally defined itself for membership in the European Union, which is equally determined to support its development strategy based on good and on the development and improvement of maritime activities and seas as the capital of Croatia in general, so this topic for Europe's modern and prosperous Croatia is of paramount importance. In doing so, I would like to point out in particular that Croatia has already taken certain measures to facilitate the operation of shipping in international navigation, but it should be recognised that these measures were neither systematic nor effective. It is a sad fact of the disappearance of such significant shipping companies in Sibenik, Croatia..., Dalmatia, etc., and a significant reduction of the existing fleet in the last 10 years. We heard something about the reasons. But Croatia is a traditional maritime country, sometimes leading in the world by maritime law and absolutely deserves a modern but systematic policy towards shipping. The new Maritime Code is an opportunity for Croatia to harmonize this issue in order to create domestic incentive conditions for dealing with a whole series of affairs and activities that are related to this really wide topic and, of course, in order to comply with the conditions that expect us to be a full member of the European family tomorrow. So let me point out just a few facts that I think we should specifically talk about. All who witnessed at least one trip by sea this summer were by no means aware of the path of witnesses of their own blue highway I would say now the blue highway of so many different vessels under even different flags of states of which some names hardly had ever heard before. Of course we are glad that there is so much traffic, tourists, but there is a logical question and an almost incredible question with a well-known answer for years, and there is what and how much of it has the Croatian budget. The question is rhetorical because the answer is known. Not enough, little nothing. And I want to point out something special, not because I'm a demagogue, so I don't think we need the money, but simply because I think that aside from that black charter as a syntagm for lost gain, it's just as important that by undermining those vessels under the Croatian flag and other sublegal acts, we simply introduce order to know the rules in this activity and finally begin to see the system in all of this. I keep it as important as the lost profit. After all, the introduction of order is the first and necessary condition to end the grey, black and other economies. I also want to add something else to this. Certain sub-legislative acts should also introduce order among private owners of the vessel, of course in accordance with certain conditions regarding their size, arrangement and the like. Namely, everyone agrees that a good part of the weekend houses on the Croatian coast do not report their guests and thus deny budget funds and all agree that they should work systematically and continuously. Actually, it's working, and I'm holding that checking in guests is where and where more orderly than before. But let's make the boats, all the cottages, sailing hotels and their so-called. cousins and neighbors who came here today, so they're going to drive around a little bit like they're not dealing with the same rental. The interest of the Republic of Croatia and this is a clearly confirmed development strategy is to enable not only the return of the fleet under the Croatian flag but also to improve maritime shipping because it is a significant driver of the development of a significant number of secondary activities which are inevitably based on maritime shipping. Port services, expeditions, agency services, maritime insurance of ships, ship maintenance, repairs, construction, etc. and this is followed by a reflection on road, rail and, of course, the possibility of employment. There's another important topic I left for last. The Croatian state, we have already heard about it from the exhibition but I must point out that the Croatian state is training sailors, they are learning and training on Croatian shipboats and then by offerings of higher wages. These are the offers we usually say are offers that are not rejected. So they're being won by foreign shipmen. The relevant data suggest that by the end of this year 38 thousand officers will be missing in Europe and foreign competition is dragging them out of Croatia because the remaining unqualified workforce can be found in many poor countries of the world. This is literally a classic example of brain drains and reason to consider giving about the same working conditions with domestic shipowners as foreign ones. There is still a whole series, I dare say, of small, technical and business, local lifelocks and problems with this matter, but there is no doubt that the arrangement and improvement of overall maritimeity is one of the strategic objectives and our most important task. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20428	Thank you. Dear Representative Tonci Tadic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20429	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Secretary of State! I will point out here as Mrs. Tomasic, who spoke on behalf of our club, that it is truly strange and incomprehensible that this Naval Code which is a kind of maritime constitution of the Republic of Croatia does not have in its work, has no part in it relating to the Coast Guard. Of course, there have been numerous controversys in Croatia about how to organize the coastal guard. In the HSP, we believe that Croatia would be a pretty good Norwegian model in which the Coast Guard is under the sub-ordination of the Ministry of Defence, or in which we best achieve the coordination of all these forces at sea, so we also have those who have the Ministry of Defence, so our Navy and those forces that the maritime police have, but of course, also ships the port gates. I think it is a happy circumstance that today in the Croatian Parliament are also representatives of our friendly Norway and we will be able to discuss it with them. So, Mr. Minister, I believe that in the second reading of this Naval Code should be complemented by an act relating to the establishment of the Coast Guard. Our club will also be happy to help with the amendments to make this part especially good because it is impossible without coast guard to carry out proper sea navigation control, to provide full safety for those who are flying here and in particular to ensure that they are able to operate as smoothly as possible in our territorial sea as possible and in the ecological and fishing zone or economic zone. The issue of the arrival of nuclear ships was also mentioned. We unfortunately witnessed the arrival of US nuclear carriers outside the port of Dubrovnik and the port of Rijeka, but we were witnesses and the arrival of two US attack nuclear submarines in 2001 in Dubrovnik despite the fact that we do not have signed with America any defence agreement which would require Croatia to do so even though Croatia did not have and has not today formed a council for nuclear security. Therefore, allowing nuclear ships to enter our ports should not be given to the ministry, but the final instance should be a council for nuclear security. What's this about? In that part of the port you're putting a nuclear ship in, you can't accept a cruiser afterwards. That's what separates a nuclear ship from any other warship that visits us. Practically that way, part of the port is reserved for the arrival of nuclear ships, and it's completely free of charge for that giant force that's sending us ships here. In Japan, nuclear ships may come to Japanese ports but only in two places, in Yokosuk and Okinawa, and they are under strict control for the possible leak of radioactive material from the ship itself and that is because Japan has signed a defence agreement with the United States on joint defence against third-party attacks. Croatia has nothing to do with this, and for Croatia, it is extremely unacceptable to have leniency to approach this problem. Speaking of submarines and how they are attractions and not harmful I would remind you of the fact that at the end of 2000 in October at Gibraltar port, there was an accent on the British submarine... And that there was a big doubt whether that submarine would withstand that incident or not. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Of course, in the case of Gibraltar, the submarine may be pulled off to sink into the depths of the Atlantic, but what would we do with the Adriatic if it were to happen in Dubrovnik, Rijeka, or Split, you can think for yourself. What is particularly important for the Adriatic, however, is this, and this is where I attach myself to the other colleagues who talked about it is that the Adriatic is declared an area of special sensitivity, so "particulors of sea eria sensitivity". I would remind here that this House of the High last June 13th on the initiative of the HSP Club of Representatives adopted such a conclusion to launch a diplomatic initiative so that the Adriatic would become "particillators of the sea eria" and I think that such status would automatically underline both a special navigation and entry regime of nuclear ships but also even more care about the control of fishing and fishing and fishing of the Adriatic. Also, Article 70 about seizing is unacceptable to us. The fact that tankers and ships carrying dangerous substances are completely forgotten is unacceptable, these ships must have a cape on them no matter how big they are. It is unacceptable for us that large yachts are exempt from sequestering and that the level of tonage below which segregation does not need to be brought down. Croatia must also form with the Government, i.e. in the future Coast Guard of the Centre for Crisis at Sea, which any shipowner could address with advice, i.e. for assistance in the event of any accident on the ship itself, engine failure, while wearing it south and the like. As far as ports and port regimes are concerned, I remind here that, despite the fact that Croatia has about 6 thousand and 700 km of divorced seashore, there are only 2.7 km of coast in ports intended for the reception of fishing vessels. We experience a little bit in the Adriatic the overall marinating of the ports, we experience that in our ports slowly but surely the operational shores disappear, we experience that private shipmen and Jadrolia are increasingly struggling with traffic in the ports which is good, I do not say it is bad,... come, but let's, let's have a measure of it all together, plan development and allow the sea to live on by those who have lived from it and so far and these are our private shipmen, these are our fishermen. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So as many operational coasts as possible for fishermen in Croatian ports. I must mention here the fact that the Adriatic coast is really a large number of yachts, there is no governmental, parliamentary or extraparliamentary forum on tourism, which does not mention the issue of black charter, or identification of the same yacht with a different crew in two weeks in the 21st century, I find it simply ridiculous in the time of the Internet. The yacht that sails into the inner waters of the Republic of Croatia must, at that time, sail into one of the Croatian ports, be registered to its mast and raise a special wine with the number it receives, which must be held together with the Croatian national flag. A yacht without a winch is automatically punished. The same yacht found two weeks in a row with a different crew must have a registered charter. And that's the whole story. The Internet solves everything, the vignette solves everything. That vignette would cost that man something and that would be income for the Republic of Croatia. But we'd finally know exactly who was sailing the Adriatic. The Adriatic is now making about 600,000 people on those yachts in summer, changing. If only 10% of them are unreported it is a terriblely large number of people who sail Croatia without us knowing anything about it. And worst of all, it's very common for people with no maritime experience, very often it's people who can't pay for insurance if they're causing a collision or a boat crash, because our country's desperately badly implemented a system of damage to the sea at sea by yacht collisions and so forth. Here I have to mention two other very important things. There's been a mention of that seaman's status. I have to visit everyone here on how much one sailor has to pay to become a sailor at all. So after he's done all the rock, he's got to give about 9000 kuna for three hills, 12 thousand kuna for 5-6 hills if it's a passenger ship, and if it's about ships carrying liquids or gases, 15 or more thousand kuna. With all the school that has passed each re-sumption, two thousand kunas are paid again. So this is how we're going to lose the seamen, if we want to be a maritime land, so we can't behave, but we're also, ladies and gentlemen of the sea on two occasions without ships. I mean cases of supo-auto-nationalisation and cases of ship destruction by the Serb aggressor during the Serbian aggression on Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20430	Thank you very much, dear colleague. Two replicas, please. First respected representative Miljenko Doric.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20431	Thank you, Mr. President. I would react to that part of my counterpart Tadic's exposure to the pellar. I talked about it yesterday in front of the HNS Club, the PGS, and I'd just like to say that we need to be very careful with our colleagues here. Surely the ironing is a security factor, that's correct. However, pellaring is not free. And when it comes to ships that regularly land in ports, it is a great burden on those ships, or shipmen. Europe solves this in a way that enables the commander to pass a polar exam and thus satisfys this safety factor and should be detracted between these two options. Our shipmen, Croatian shipmen are for this European solution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20432	Also a replica, respected representative Anton Perusko.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20433	Thank you, Mr. President, no matter what the mammera, and at least political bickering with counterpart Tonci Tadic but works for the Croatian public and since I have worked for 27 years in that service. So it doesn't turn out that we don't know what yachts are moving on the Croatian sea today. For example, the port captainia... which I am coming in last year has issued about 16 thousand foreign shipping permits for Croatian waters and in total Sundays between 60 and 70 in Croatia has been recorded and issued so-called. The permit to sail the territorial sea of the Republic of Croatia is recorded, and any changes to the crew and that vignette you rightly speak of has already been established in some way. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Every yacht gets an external feature, it's so far been in the form of a triangle and the year it applies to, and this one of your intentions with, I mean good with the aim of eliminating a black charter needs to find some different solutions and I think it'll be dealt with by post-law regulations that will be passed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20434	Thank you, dear representative Jozo Topic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20435	Mr. President, esteemed colleagues and fellow MPs. Today we continue the debate that we started yesterday on a proposal from the Maritime Code, which rightly regulates an extremely important and important area of our economy, which is maritime and all that is related to the sea, in this case and tourism, in the Adriatic. It is also very sensitive to our area, our coastal area of the Adriatic is extremely sensitive and needs special protection and protection. Because the sea of our Adriatic was our past and in it we see our future. Thanks to the sea and maritimeity, our Croatian people enter the circle very early. Civilised Mediterranean peoples and cultures are just thanks to the sea and maritime transport and has spread to our shores and from our shores further towards continental Croatia. And that is how the monuments testify, and this is the monument of the world format because it was an exceptional culture, a European Christian culture that came to these parts. We on our shores, i.e. In the 13th century, cities on our coast were able to solve legal problems related to the sea and seamen, and seafaring. So the seafaring in these areas hasn't been since yesterday. That's already been pointed out by more speakers. We have a long and honorable tradition of maritimeity in this area and precisely this bill, the Law of the Sea, which is ahead of us, is a legal continuity with which Croatia wants to declare itself, not only declare but wants to and regulate all legal relations related to the sea and sea. Because, as many colleagues pointed out, maritime activity is one activity that takes place on the world market, and therefore, the standard is, or legal regulations must be adequate in order for this activity to be properly implemented. This bill that we are discussing today is the continuation of this whole process because we must not forget that in Croatia, this very legal maritime tradition, in the Croatian people has also significantly defined the laws of the former state, the socialist Yugoslavia, because we have had extremely important and well-known experts gathered around the Adriatic Institute, who have produced and prepared these laws. But this proposal for the Maritime Code should be commended for a number of reasons. One of the reasons is, therefore, both the praises and the Government for coming out in a relatively short time with this Maritime Code proposal and showing that this government, the government has opted for a Adriatic orientation and shows that it has a vision and strategy to create conditions for a faster development of the economy, in this case I primarily think about maritime and tourism and how to protect the sea and our coast. This Maritime Code proposal, which we are now discussing as the proposer says, is based on the current Maritime Code, which was passed in 1994 and now I don't think it would be appropriate to discuss who contributed more to this current Maritime Code. Whether that contributed to the previous coalition government or that, the current government contributed to it. In any case, the current government has shown one determination and one speed and is very aware of the problems that are currently related to the sea and sea and which should have been properly regulated. Because here now to bid, because we heard in the debate yesterday, that this is a “de facto” old prescribed code, that it is possibly a newspaper in some percentages 30%, some have spoken even less. I don't think that matters. Most important for us, I think for the state of Croatia, the most important thing is that before us this proposal of the Maritime Code, which we have told these maritime legal traditions of Croatia, and at this point, given that Croatia has signed or accessed or adopted many international maritime law documents by its own self-resistance and adoption in 1994, and it is most important that now, by means of this law, three of the most powerful problems relating to the sea and sea, which are, in my opinion, the legal, legal provisions are achieved as well as the better ecological protection of the Adriatic and the 2nd return of our ships under the Croatian flag, and I would say in the end, what many have repeated, so, it is forbidden to carry out “charter” vessels under foreign flags, which should significantly reduce the black charter. These dots can be talked about for a long and wide time. I think fellow MPs discussed these points very comprehensively and in quality. I'd like to mention in particular Mr. Rifle who made a few concrete suggestions, so I don't think we should waste any time explaining all these points to each other again. Of course, I also join all those who say that it is a shame that this law is not regulated and coast guard and I believe that the Ministry will eventually come out with a law that will also regulate this area, a maritime area. I can see the light's on already. And finally, respected colleagues and fellow MPs, I think this is a good legal proposal, and I urge you to join and accept this proposal of the Maritime Code and let it go into another reading and I believe that all remarks, all remarks specifically related to the status of our seamen and related to the coast guard, will be considered until the second reading. Thank you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20436	Thank you. Dear Representative Milan Meden.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20437	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. In fact, the proposal for a new Maritime Code, which lies ahead of us in the first reading, lays down some new provisions on business in this maritime, shipping segment. After the Ministry of the Sea, Tourism, Transport and Development presented the Maritime Code to the general public, which was held in Rijeka in mid-July on the ship “Marco Polo” followed in fact numerous expert and media assessments. When asked by the journalist “Free Dalmatia” addressed to Minister Bozidar Kalmeti: “What is the most important change in maritime shipping from the new code?”, the minister said, “I think we are creating the assumption by it that Croatia is finally de facto and deiure becoming a maritime country.” On the other hand, on the “New List” on the same day, the journalist writes: “The new Maritime Code brings good wind to the sails of the shipowners, but contrary to the claims made by Minister Kalmeta it is not a revolutionary law.” Of course there are always oscillations in the statement of the leading people of the Croatian government and the review of the press. I sincerely believe that the most important reviews of Croatian shipbuilding operators are so the first man of tanking sailing, Mr. Ivo Mustrac, called the law our maritime constitution and the historical doctrine. Mr. Zlatko Moković, on the other hand, says: “The proposal for a new code for us shipowners is certainly a significant step forward, the great success is already the fact that the government has accepted most of our proposals and this is a good step for Croatian shipping.” For shipping companies, the two most important moments in the creation of the laws are the new tax regulations and the introduction of a maritime mortgage institute by the reputation of the Anglo-Saxon “Mordgade”. Petar Kragic, who is a member of the tanker's navigation, is also chairman of the Mare Nostrum legal commission. It is not too much to say that this Code is a historic turn-off for reasons because for the first time in which the seafaring gets special treatment of the law is a long-adopted practice in other maritime countries. In the future, however, it is likely that we will need to improve it especially by entering the European Union. Leading people of Croatian shipping, as our representative Perica Bukic said, have long known the ancient saying to sail the sea, not to live. These statements show that the new Maritime Code is a strong step forward in the law of Croatian legislation which follows the positive economic value of European principles of governance. The current Maritime Code has been in force for 10 years and some have called it mammtu, since it has a total of 1056 articles and has already experienced changes as the first complete maritime chamber and some parts have been removed from it. In this new bill there are indeed a number of significant changes to this one. I believe that the most important thing is that the operating conditions of our ships are leveled with those in other countries and there is no longer any reason for our ships to be unwinded by the Croatian flag. This has already been the case for all maritime countries in Europe and the amendments to the maritime code encourage the construction of a new fleet, while sailors get better conditions for shipbuilding work are actually encouraged. Pre-conditions are created for their easier business, on the international market, because it must also sail to other people's seas. Shipbuilding companies sailing on international lines are freed from paying taxes for reinvestment and default profits, and as Mr Shime Prtenjača said, a reserve for future business is created. In addition to improving shipowners' conditions in international navigation, the new code has also served sanctions for maritime offenders. It is important that more attention is paid to the ecological protection of the Adriatic and we are witnessing a series of environmental disasters that were both on the Adriatic and on the Mediterranean and last year. This Law increases the penalties in the event of an ecological accident, where it amounts to a million kuna for a legal person and for a physical and 200 thousand kuna. I also believe that the important fact is that the Maritime Code regulates the chartering of a boat in the Adriatic. How many alien ships actually sail the Adriatic today in a black charter, and at which prices are sold such an engagement I believe that few who are actually precise in our country can answer that. A fellow official, Tadic, was actually saying that this could simply be solved, perhaps by informing, and I believe that the transport here came and the secretary of state from telecommunications, means it is in the portfolio of the same ministry. I believe this information will quickly follow the meanings of both port captains and certain marina infrastructures. And in this way I believe that as Antom Perusko said, the representative can be credible in that line means at the same time to have a record of why in fact what is legally sailing in the Croatian Adriatic. It is known that there is a large amount of money that is shown in hundreds of millions of euros in earnings, where most of the unregistered does not stay in Croatia. Namely renting various sailboats and motor yachts for sailing on one of the most beautiful and developed coasts of the Mediterranean, there is actually real business. We can say business is developing money is spinning, and in Croatia only the crowd at sea is registered. The adoption of a new Maritime Code of the yachts shall be segregated if special vessels other than standard ships and boats and shall prohibit cabotage and thus carry out charters of activities of sailing activities under a foreign flag. I believe that this Maritime Code will enable a faster, more successful economic development of the Republic of Croatia as a country of maritime orientation, and deserves full support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20438	Thank you. Replica, the esteemed representative of Shima Lucin.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20439	Thank you very much. A colleague was well quoted by government representatives and ship's representatives. However, I would be happier and we would all be together if two or at least one quote like this could have been drawn in the past months by two days or three of the representatives of the seamen. It's true to sail the sea but live but it's also true when it sails to make it from what you're sailing and can live politely. There's only that much. I believe that when we read and adopt the final proposal in the next few months, or two months, we will be able to draw some quotes along with representatives of the government and shipowners and representatives of the seamen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20440	Thank you. Replication response. Dear Representative Milan Meden.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20441	A very short response to the replica. Since Mr. Secretary of State Bačić spoke very precisely here in this section between the means of boaters, sailors and unions, I have avoided saving time here. Although I had already prepared speeches by the vice president of the Croatian Maritime Union Predrag Brazador and his articles at the press conference. But I keep saying that that's exactly what the secretary of state was talking about so that it doesn't happen again, I avoided it.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20442	Dear Representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20443	I thank Mr. President, so it seems to me that the debate so far has made it very clear to most colleagues that it is a very high-quality law that is extremely large. Which really harmonizes all the questions related to this area, so to the sea and all the things that relate to it. And protection of course above all our seas, and we must say that this law is in line with all international conventions equally with all international instruments and thus the Republic of Croatia is actually putting itself in a position to continue to monitor the global trend of maritime law uniformity. I think it is extremely important to draw one more time and stress that this law actually raises the level of safety of navigation, and the protection of biodiversity. What is particularly important is to distinguish the competence of the supervisory authorities, thus defining the jurisdiction of the vessel safety inspection, which is limited to the safety of navigation and safety of maritime facilities. While the other issues of supervision are provided for by the construction law are carried out by a construction inspection. Once again, of course, it should be pointed out that the Naval legislator is prohibited from cabotage, thus prohibiting charters of activities by vessels under a foreign flag. What is extremely important, there is no need to talk about which economic effects can be of that, of course, positive. There has been a lot of talk here about this Lawman going on hand to the shipowners and that the shipowners are extremely pleased. And I don't think that fact should be pointed out in particular again. But it was also about the seamen. It should be said of the seamen that for the first time they are in one of these laws. So for the first time it will be like this with one extensive law regulated by the rights of the seamen, and they will be able to exercise their rights I believe in their satisfaction. And it is not negligible that the untaxed part of their income will be significantly higher. I think it was about $12,000. I therefore believe that in the end and the seafarers will be equally pleased when this law is passed. As far as protecting Jadranaq is concerned, we must say that this is an extremely important issue for all of us. Because you and the Adriatic have a great resource of great economic potential. And not protecting the Adriatic would mean being irresponsible to yourself and to future generations. In that sense, this law goes significantly ahead in front of all the other so far and regulates and stricter sanctions, stricter measures, more severe penalties. The behavior of all those entities that use the Adriatic economically and I believe that with this kind of protection we will become still the cleanest sea in the Mediterranean and thus the world. Here's what I think a lot is said about the Law itself, but most importantly, I say most parliamentarians are satisfied with this bill. It can still be done in some parts of it, but it also seems to me to be another important prominent fact that has been trying to turn around here today a little bit, and that is the question of the former government's relationship to what they said, according to this bill. In fact, it has been repeatedly tried to incorrectly inform the public in the sense that the former government has prepared this law, and even some of the SDP colleagues have told me 90% that it has been prepared by the former government. That's completely incorrect. Once again for the sake of the Croatian public, it should be said that the preparation of this law began in 1998 and the proposal was already completed in 1999. The former government did not continue to comply with this law with international conventions at any time, except to let it read the former HDZ government's proposal first, nor did it miss more after the first reading at the Croatian Parliament, therefore, in the follow-up procedure of the law. By coming to power of the new government at the beginning of this year, the ministry, especially the Secretary of State for the Sea and, of course, Minister, Mr Kalmeta did their best to send this law to the procedure as soon as possible and we have it in front of us today, but in line with all the conventions, in line with all the laws concerning this area, and that is why it is necessary to give recognition to Mr Calmeti and Mr Bačić, who, within such a short time, have managed to prepare such a comprehensive law, so that today we can really discuss it qualityly and in this sense, all praise the Ministry. I hope that both sailors and shipmen and all those concerned with this law will indeed be satisfied after its adoption.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20444	Honorable representative Antun Perusko.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20445	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, the assistant minister. In yesterday's debate on behalf of the SDP Club, I expressed the fundamental views of us in the SDP Club on the current bill and I said that in the professional public it was assessed as good, that basic remarks came from sailors, the Maritime Unions and in several of the Marine Pellars' Associations. It is a comprehensive law and now the bidding that has given more, I congratulate this government which has given its efforts, but if it wanted to simply within this short time, if it had not had the foundations of which it had gone, it was prepared by the former government, as counterpart Matosic says, that it could not simply arrive on this. However, regardless of all this, it is good that this law is before us. In this debate of 10 minutes, I will only potential 3 things that we at the SDP Club consider crucial in order to achieve as much agreement as possible when voting this law. And that's the first marine status that's been spoken of here. This was discussed by all club representatives, including co-legislators in an individual debate. I just want to say that unions continue to express dissatisfaction, that the key issue is to resolve the status of Croatian sailors who are known in the world as top sailors and prevent their further departure to foreign ships. What about our kids? We're half-full of class in maritime schools anyway. Where are we gonna hire them? And he is looking forward to something that Mr. Secretary of State said that the talks with shipowners and trade unions will continue until the second reading and see what are still the possibilities of bringing this part and the social status of the seamen into the existing law and I plead with the Ministry of Commerce, the Ministry must, in coordination with the Government and other resolution ministries, make an effort to amend those other laws that regulate the social status of the seamen. Secondly, I finally think it's time for the seamen's status to be tied up in the context of the ship's privilege, and the ship's ships are tied to the flag, and I think it's possible to find a solution there. The other thing that's crucial is the coast guard issue. Kolega Puljic said there are other institutions that are not in this law, it is the Croatian hydrographic institute, Plovdiv, Croatian registry etc. However, at least one word is mentioned in this Naval Code, and the Coast Guard as a key institution is really nowhere to be found and that's why I plead. Croatia is a maritime country, and if it tends to be a truly maritime country in accordance with its resources, the inevitable formation of a coast guard that will in one place unite all material and human resources and be the service that will effectively behave all those duties at sea, and we know that the Croatian territorial sea is over 30,000 square kilometres, we know that the state border is almost 1,000 km at sea, protection of organic goods, fishermen, and, rather, the pursuit and rescue of human lives and material goods at sea, I think it is only possible to carry out this effectively within the coast guard and that coast guard, unlike my colleagues from the HSP, should be a civil institution within the Ministry of the Sea. It must unite everyone, I say the material and human resources that are now being scattered into five ministries. And the third key observation of us at the SDP Club is about the maritime piloting system. Maritime piloting is the professional management of the ship under difficult conditions. It's an essential element in the safety of navigation. In her previous practice, she has received good results. This can be confirmed by colleagues from Pula to Dubrovnik. I know that in European practice, in the practice of many European countries, the institute of exemptions from pilotage is in force, how, with the possession that the commander becomes the owner of the Five pilot exection certificates. The rules of the European Union are different, the practice in European countries is different. And I am in favour of introducing this institute, but in all versions of the bill's proposal so far, it was that pilots cannot be freed from shipping ships, oil tankers and/or dangerous loads, and I think it should be returned to this proposal, and the issue is also the limit of 1,000 grt for yachts. These are the key comments from the SDP Club that I failed to elaborate yesterday, and now, if I still have it, I'm going to make a little more small remarks. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 5 of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013. I think it's time for the anti-cipice submarine to be defined as an object for transporting people across the sea and under the sea. In the world, there is already a practice of small tourist submarines to visit submarines. In this way they would certainly have started the Croatian registry to start thinking about making technical rules for such a type of vessel. Secondly, as regards Article 109 where floating objects are referred to, it is worth seeing if the formulation is happy. It stemmed from the practice and difficulties that occur around the location of floating objects, however, I think that the permit for the location of a floating object could not be a condition for its entry in the register, but rather for the register of floating objects, but for obtaining a useful authorisation. Furthermore, Article 143(4) does not belong here, as this article lists the duties of crew members and does not confer the powers of ministers. It's probably some kind of technical failure, so I suggest you see that too. Maybe I'm wrong. Article 145, paragraph 1 and paragraph 3 should be harmonised, because they are contradictory, and the principle in my opinion must always be that the shipowner is responsible for the damage of the crew member, unless the damage he has done himself. In Article 146, in my opinion, it should be added in paragraph 4, "and has the authority of command responsibility". This is about when the commander can only replace a Croatian citizen. And in Article 154, I don't really know what the poet was going to say, because here are the duties of ship commanders and paragraphs 1 and 1 in my opinion are contradictory. Here would be some remarks that, besides what I was saying on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the SDP, I had to make. I think we agreed in the assessment that this proposal is a good foundation that still needs to be added to the second reading, and that's why we'll be going to the second reading, and depending on how much we vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20446	Thank you. Dear Representative Miroslav Rosic. And before that, it was a replica. Dear Representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20447	Mr. President, I don't know how Mr. Perusk would have such information that the Croatian party of rights insists that the Coast Guard be not a civilian institution. In fact, that's what we first showed when we gave our proposal for a law on the formation of ministries and state administrations where we said exactly that a special state administration must be established that will have that part and the management of the coast guard, but the normal structure should be done as well as the organisation of work as it is in Norway, that military ships can be used normally, but within that it is a civilian. This is how we help and develop the Croatian Navy, and we are not so rich as to buy new ships, and it is also possible to train members of the Croatian Navy. That's what Norway did a long time ago, and it's one of the simplest and cheapest proposals in a way because we're not a rich country to be able to behave like a drunken billionaire, but when it comes to coast guard, it has to work and act on probationary military hierarchy because it has to react at any moment in time, and not that what happens to us today is that we have two ships that can control the entrances of Italian fishermen into our territorial sea. The Italians know where these two ships are and then every little bit cross our line of entry into the territorial sea. Therefore, if we do this way, and it is high time that Mr. Tomcic and Mrs. Ruža Tadic both said, this will not happen to us and we will be able to go on the economic belt and use what is ours and where we have the right to do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20448	Thank you. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Anton Perusko.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20449	Thank you, Mr. President. So if it happens to us at the SDP Club that sometimes we kill each other, we don't agree. We're different, it's people, isn't it, but Mr. Honorable counterpart Kovacevic spoke to you earlier, and he said explicitly, now I don't know if it's the party's position or his personal, that you are for a Norwegian model under the auspices of the Ministry of Defence translated into our language. And me and the SDP Club personally advocate a model of civil, civil structures in the Coast Guard, a unique, unique model within the Ministry of the Sea, uniting those other resources.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20450	Dear Representative Miroslav Rosic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20451	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, gentlemen of the ministry have several notes that have already been discussed here, but I believe that there should be some emphasis on matters that can be addressed by the Maritime Code. Although this is a principle debate, first reading of the law which I particularly appreciate, because only your presence here in the composition of which it is shows that you are willing to listen to arguments that could improve the law. I hope you've heard a lot of them and that by the second reading some things will change. Of course, I won't mention the issue of coast guard here, because there seems to be a smaller probability, but there is one question that can be solved by the Maritime Code and which we hold to be possible, that it should certainly be resolved and introduced in addition to the Maritime Code, which is the issue of cabotage of ships. I believe that the cabotage of ships can indeed take place and should take place and should be prescribed by the Law of the Sea only under the Croatian flag, and for the simple reason when it comes, and soon in Croatia will be demonopolized by sea transport and goods and persons, it is perfectly logical to expect that many foreign shipmen who want to join the market will be gathered here at that time. They should actually be bound by the Maritime Code that such ships to be included in that part of the market in Croatia must register in Croatia, that such ships cannot sail under other people's flags for a simple and clear reason, which is that they have to pay taxes in Croatia. You know that we have a whole series of laws adopted by this Croatian Parliament on the prevention of double taxation with many countries and should not be allowed by foreign shipowners to operate in the Croatian sea without paying taxes in a country because they have not registered a ship in Croatia. That's one thing I think you should get rid of. Furthermore, there's been a lot of talk here about yachts and the problems we have with yachts. I would especially mention a problem that I think is also very easy to solve, which is quite important, which is the question of identifying actually yachts, or ships that have sailed into our territorial sea, or which sails the Adriatic. For example, you have a case like this today. You have a yacht that sails under the name "Christina." The "Cristina" yacht 500 tons, under the German flag. You can't really identify that ship at all. You don't know if it's a private ship, mega yachts, foreign boaters, charters, black charters. What's this about? Such a ship can do damage, crash, hawari, anything else, you're not in a dream to register it. This can therefore be solved and solved only with vines. The vignette that the ship wears, the vignette that gives you the number that you can identify it with and through which you can actually identify the ship and identify which of the categories of those that I've surfaced are actually working. So is it a private yacht registered here, there, etc. The most important thing I'm talking about is not really insisting that you can identify the ship, but the logical question is why we should identify the ship. Because if anything happens, you could just charge the insurance. So that what's going on doesn't happen, like this summer could happen. If one mega yacht anchored in a completely inadequate place between the islands of Lokrum and the hotel in Dubrovnik, in fact, due to one I would say the benign wind for the mega yacht is, and for our occasions a little stronger wind actually gave way to the anchor and there was a danger of breaking the hotel. You actually, of course it's an extreme case, but if it did happen, there's been a hararium. The first thing that was, the lines were cut, Lokrum ran out of power, no water, no water, no water, no this, no that, huge material damage was done and the immediate question of insurance was raised. In this case, fortunately, it was obvious, but what if it weren't, what if it were some smaller yacht that could also do great damage elsewhere, and you don't really know if it was a charter yacht, whether it was a black charter, whether it was a yacht owned by Mr. Abramovic, who unsettlingly boards our waters and actually no one knows about it. Except some journalists might recognize him and then write in the newspaper Abramovic sailed in the Adriatic to his mega yacht. But so much in that part. As far as fishing in our Croatian waters is concerned, we are finally commending it for every praise I am personally happy that there are articles from 23. to 25. because it is forbidden for foreigners to fish in Croatian waters, however, I do mention this week Foreign Minister Ivan Vajgl Slovenije again, not anyone, not some man we consider questionable mental health at the border which he wrote on his house "There is a country here too", but it is possible that this is the Minister of Foreign Affairs who is fishing in Piran Bay deadly declares naturally in the function of his pre-election campaign that the entire Piran Bay of Slovenski, then through these articles should finally be adopted, if we enter these articles into the Maritime Code should really consider repealing Article 71. The Law on Marine Fisheries and the suspension of the application of the SOPS agreement or the permission of fishing for Slovenians to the Lim Channel, since they are also foreigners, although they have a special contract, but this special contract is owned by an article that allows, which clearly and loudly states that each of the two parties can unilaterally terminate the contract. Therefore, I think the time has come for us to really do this, not to keep sending some notes to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Slovenia and then to the Minister of Foreign Psols, then I said that the entire Piran Bay is Slovenian. I'd say one more sentence about climbing for a mega yacht that has really been said about here, my colleagues have spoken about but here is one thing that we think this Naval Code hasn't touched I don't know if it can fully but in any case can boost the solution to that problem and that's the safety of sailing in the Adriatic. Today in the Adriatic and larger vessels can actually rent yacht charters to rent people who do not have to submit almost no proof that they have any knowledge of how to operate these yachts and that they have any experience in managing these yachts. It's almost like we let the Croatian roads drive drivers without a driver's license and not drive personal cars, but, say, trucks. I think it is simply unacceptable and that this should certainly be improved, I would also ask you to reduce the conditions of registration of fishing vessels, i.e. to reduce the conditions for the number of crews on fishing vessels who want to fish outside the territorial waters, at this time these conditions for Croatian fishermen are almost the same as for Italian fishermen or even worse. In fact, we prescribe difficult conditions for our fishermen, for hunting in our economic belts, rather than for the Italians, for our fishermen. Therefore, if we want to have at least equal competition, which is almost impossible given the tool to hunt, but at least then we adapt the regulations to our people who should become competition in that part outside the territorial waters to Italian fishermen. And of course I'm going to conclude with two things, that's a question that's actually a question of two regulations, and these are the rules on the assessment of nationalized ships and the rules on the assessment of war damage on ships, but since I'm getting a red light, I'm going to use my five minutes on behalf of the club, so I'm actually going to say two more sentences about it in those five minutes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20452	Thank you very much, colleague Rozic. Let's move forward with the debate, fellow MP Mato Arlovic please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20453	Madam Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Allow a few words about a few questions from this Law, unfortunately the time at our disposal of 10 minutes is too short and too short to say all that should be said both on the side of praise and on the side of the objection to this proposed text given its scope because it is a great law. The first thing I'd like to say as a priority is that I think we should take good care of some of the solutions that are tied here and that are offered here. I, above all, draw attention to the question of actually the possibility of restrictions on entrepreneurship rights and freedom, and in order to protect nature, the human environment, human health, of course, the safety of the Republic of Croatia. A very interesting solution in Article 10 that allows for the approval of a foreign warship and a foreign ship that has nuclear weapons and navigation with us. In principle, it can be supported. However, a question arises which restrictions are related to that part. Article 15(2) also provides that if a foreign warship enters the port, it must leave a certain part of the arms on... storage. How the nuclear ship will leave weapons, nuclear weapons where it will leave us, who will provide such protection, in which way, I claim that this is contrary to constitutional principles relating to the protection of fundamental values that are related to the protection of life, nature and health of people of course of the Republic of Croatia's security. Therefore, I personally do not object to allowing such ships and warships to enter the Republic of Croatia, or the territorial sea of the Republic of Croatia... the sea, but it is necessary to elaborate precisely on specific regulations to protect additional issues, of course, in this law should give legal conditions and obligations. Another thing I would like to point out in particular is the question that, after more than three foreign warships, the minister can approve and that in such a situation, the minister can and must inform the government of the Republic of Croatia within 8 days. First, I believe that such power is too heavy authority, too heavy responsibility, for the minister, even if it was a defence minister and that such a decision when it comes to entering a larger number of ships, should be made by the Government, not by the Minister of Defence, then there is no need to be informed, and if it is possible if it is to limit three or more than three ships, as the authority of the Minister, then it should be made mandatory for the Minister to notify the Government of the Republic of Croatia within 24 hours if not immediately. Because it is very serious issues that can affect the safety of the Republic of Croatia, but certainly because of the nature of these ships, it affects the environment or the protection of nature and the sea. The second thing I would like to note is the question of Article 24 and it is said for the purpose of safety of navigation, protection of the sea from pollution, etc., is approved by the Minister that he can grant approval to sail.... It's got to be different. According to our Constitution are protected seas, natural resources, life, human health, safety of the Republic of Croatia, it is always, not always, but must always protect that part and, exceptionally, it can enable navigation, provided that then the minister of course has special regulations, or special consent even other ministries on the protection of certain values that must be protected under the Constitution. Not only under the Constitution but without practical application and the need to apply your own life. So, you need to reverse the inversion of the norm, that's the point of things. In order to comply not only with the Constitution but with our own needs because here the possibility can, for the sake of protection, beware, it must be protected by the Constitution. So, not the other way around, but the other way around. Thirdly, if we look at the situation that we have in the field of protection of workers' rights, or better said seamen, it is quite clear that it is necessary and this Law must be brought into line with the law, among other things, in the intermediation of employment. In the Employment Mediation Act, we have the possibility that a foreign person can establish and deal with employment interventions at this time. We need to open up the possibility by sea law that our employment agencies can and should open up the possibility to intervene in the employment of our sailors not only on our ships but also on foreign ships. The second is the principle of reciprocity. And so, in fact, that should be cleared up, as a few more questions should be cleared up about it. One of them is a tax policy issue. First question, can the Law on the Sea Law free a seaman from paying part of the income tax? That's the first question. The second question... What? ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Yeah, but this is where it's offered. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] It includes the taxable part of the income, arranged by the government. And the second question is, if that kind of authority is given by the Naval Code, can the government have that right at all? He can't. Tax laws and tax exemptions are passed by the Parliament, not by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. And the third question to be raised immediately is the issue of constitutionality. This is the question that each person, according to his or her ability, participates in public spending, or in accordance with Article 51. So the question arises at all whether it can be freed at all. But the second question is how to compensate for that part of the marine position to stimulate them to do the job, etc. So it is quite a serious question, and in this respect these solutions that are generally acceptable, but should be seen what to do next. Of course, in this respect, the other issue related to the problem of pension insurance is also very important. Here, simply in the Maritime Code, the possibility should be opened, not that the pension insurance solution depends on the implementing act of the Labour Act and the Pension Insurance Act of the Institute itself. Here you need to open the possibility that when a seaman pays for pension insurance, he will automatically pay for the so-called. Benefited work experience, relatively time for which he paid pension insurance and recognition under the law, possibility if 12 months is then 2 months for that part. And that part must be accounted for. The second question now is what will be the basis and the height of the payment of that. After all, it has been administratively determined by pension insurance so far. Therefore, we need to resolve these questions for a simple reason because these are the life questions of these people. Not just from the point of view of length but, centuries, but actually possibilities of working on a ship or not working. Now, the particular issue that is related to health insurance and needs to be resolved is the question not only that the shipowner is reporting but the issue of the obligation to pay for it by the seaman. What about, at the same time, the boatman treats the seamen, but he doesn't treat his family and these questions need to be separated. Obviously, in this respect, it is necessary to adjust the amount and manner of the amount of the payment, including the way in which the health insurance is paid than we have so far. Practically for a simple reason, that's what life requires in this regard. The second group of questions you would like to open, and perhaps using the occasion in this Code, is a matter of criminal penalties. I chose it on purpose. When we compare this part to what's happening to, say, traffic law, then we have an amazing thing. That this law was first prescribed by the lower and upper borders. And secondly, for, say, such violations as they can, meaning, cause major accidents on other ships, major pollutions on the ecological and other parts of the values, are actually penalties, and incomparably less than punishments to an ordinary motor vehicle driver, if he commits some kind of traffic violation. Why am I warning you this? Because in the Republic of Croatia, the penalty must be balanced. They must not be oscillated to such an extent that here they will pay, for example, 2 thousand kuna for a violation of at least 2 thousand kuna if you do not go to aid a ship that has been killed or which is under fire, and at the same time you will pay several thousand kunas if you have committed some kind of traffic violation that has not caused great, even material damage, or threatened lives. The last additional group of issues I would like to open are deadlines. Not just from the point of view of offering a very comfortable position for the state administration. From one year to three years of harmonisation of acts for the implementation of this Act, but at the same time, it is indicated that further harmonisation and harmonisation of the legal system in this segment with the European system, i.e. the legal system of the European Union, is further improved. I don't think it can just be, three years is too long. In addition, we must address some of the life issues that are of interest and which are the legal basis, as well as the basis for negotiations with the European Union on the issue, and these deadlines should be significantly shortened. Of course, in that respect, I have something else to warn you about. The whole series of norms here have nomotechnical types, dactylographic errors and need to be aligned. So I'm going to name them, the most significant, let's say, related to Articles 31 and 13 that are repeated in a large part of the text. It needs to be cleared up and arranged for him to be harmonised and a special question, and I will only mention him, that's the question of the title of the Law. This Law is no longer a Maritime Code, because it is being broken into the legal area of the sea, which was regulated by the Maritime Code, has broken down into several laws, and it can no longer be a code, it should be the Law of the Sea which regulates these issues, and all other laws will edit those other issues that we justified from this area into specific areas. Thank you very much. I'm sorry I've been longer.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20454	Thank you very much, fellow Vice President. There are no more registered representatives in the individual debate. It's the end word of clubs. On behalf of the IDS Club, a fellow representative...... And I'm sorry, there's a replica. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] All right, then get Damir Cain ready behind the replica. Here's your colleague Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20455	Dear Madam President, I agree with Mr Mate Arlovic's exposure to the need to protect the working status of the seamen. We know what their status is, not at all. But here I also want to point out the part that Mr. Arlovic is referring to the Labour Act, and at this point, the Labour Act would be better called the Competence Act because of the fact that workers have been disbursed, which has been disproved by pregnant women, births and persons over 45 years of age. And such a Labour Act was passed in the former assembly, and the HSP Club was then along with associations, that is, with trade unions pointing to many of these things, so now in that part it is a little hypocritical to call on it to be some kind of law that gives great protection to workers. Especially here, I speak for whistles and all other situations when a worker seeks protection of his rights. The law is such that the employer can react immediately, give him an extraordinary discharge without being able to exercise his rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20456	Thank you very much. Replication response, Vice President Arlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20457	I think you should be more than correct. If he wants to challenge any allegations in the replica, then he needs to challenge what was said. I did not refer to the Labour Act but referred to the Employment Intervention Act, the Health Insurance Act, the Pension Insurance Act. And besides, since my colleague has already mentioned the Labour Act, I think that these qualifications that my colleague said don't stand around the Labour Act and that this is an exaggeration in this regard and I have to say that in such a situation as the situation of things is now, when it comes to the debate on the Maritime Code, then the only thing that he would like to connect me to the Labour Act now is that, with two of these issues that I have mentioned, to try to discuss and work through the Law, about the Law of the Sea. Consider also the question that, before the adoption of the second reading of this law, the possibility of ratifying an appropriate international labour organisation that regulates the position of the seafarers and, in this respect, it is absolutely certain that one part of the law applicable to the seafarers would be competed with in this respect, and the subsidiarity if some of the issues are not resolved by this law, then the Labour Act, which was already mentioned by Pero counterpart Pero Kovacevic, applies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20458	Thank you very much. This was the answer to the replica. A fellow representative of Damir Kai's closing word, five minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20459	Your Honor, Madam Vice President, the Honorable Mr. Representatives, the Honorable Minister. Well, first thing I want to say yesterday is that this isn't a new law, this is a prescribed law. This is the law... note bene on the hands of shipmen, especially if they reinvest the profits in Croatia, and if this happens clearly that the IDS will welcome such an intention of legislation. Finally, let us remember what the agony that the citizens of Rijeka were going through when it came after the earthquake of Croatia. If this law also results in some of the ships that sail under foreign flags, and are owned by Croatian companies, we have 32 such ships in total, the next day they sail under the Croatian flag because of some new Morbage Institutes, the mortgage should also be welcomed in that section. Secondly, as much as it pleases the boaters, he ignores it in some way, rather forgetting about the seamen. In 15 years, the status of sailors has not changed significantly, and we will all admit that from, 27 thousand Croatian sailors are actually the 27 thousand best Croatian ambassadors in the world. What are the gentlemen of the seamen looking for, more precisely, what is the union of Croatian sailors looking for? First, I read yesterday I'll do it again. In parallel with the amendment of the Maritime Law to ratify the 179th Convention and to implement the amendment of the Employment Intervention and Rights Act during unemployment. Secondly, to recognise the company Club for a foreign health insurance carrier and to commit a seaman to entering the system during the use of the annual vacation. Third, to allow the payment of a two-year-old work experience to be paid, which would reduce to a bn pension limit. And fourthly, to free sailors from paying income taxes completely, or compared to the time spent on work. Third thing I want to say. I will re-quote this Article 134 which says "that the commander of the crew of the ship, yacht or boat must not be under the influence of alcohol or opiates etc."which makes sense. Article 2 of Article 134 is literally referred to as "the commander, crew member, yacht or boat must not have more than 0.5 alcohol spills in the blood" during the duties of the ship, boat or yacht. Now, the ship's commander, let's say, a 150-metre tanker carrying 50 thousand gross volumes of gas or oil can drink up to 0.5 spills of wine, beer or some other alcohol, can do the same thing to a ferry commander who transports 100-ths of cars to 400 passengers, 20 crew members, but when they get to the mainland, these people can't sit behind the wheel of a car or engine and risk a fine of 500 to 1500 kuna. Of course, this standard of these 0.5s is natural, normal, desirable in the mentality of our people, something clearly bordered by tradition, culture, custom, something that is the way of life. It is clear that no one, especially after all we have been through with this Road Safety Act in this House, will offer an amendment to this article in a way that applies the provisions on 0.0 changes. But that's what I'm saying to prove to the infidel one more time that this House could vote for such a silly standard of 0.0 change when driving cars, engines, or even vehicles. Gentlemen, look up to this Law of the Sea and accept the IDS proposal to amend the Road Safety Act so that our drivers can return what is "normal" to them, which is that I can sit down for a car under 0.5 of alcohol in the blood, because it is gentlemen and economic norm and gentlemen because of something like this that is causing the entire branch of our economy to suffer. The second thing I'm saying is there's no big Mediterranean port where they don't stop to anchor American warships on nuclear ships. But let's say for them not here, the provisions on ballast waters need to be supported, and we'll see which direction that's going to develop. Let us increase the fines for the entry of foreign fishermen into the territorial waters of the Republic of Croatia. But I'd say let's not touch the SOPS. If the SOSPs want to change the Slovenians, then let's agree to it, but there's no use in it either when at least fishing is done. What we should all also pay attention to is that in Istria, for example, there were 7% fewer Slovenian guests, than a year earlier, probably so much in other parts of the Republic of Croatia, which is why our economy is suffering huge damage, and we should ask ourselves why. And it's over. It's been five minutes?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20460	Not yet, it's started to titrate just as a colleague. But one more sentence if you have one.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20461	If the government accepts the position of Croatian seamen, the IDS will accept, or vote in favour of such a bill, otherwise we will be held back. We call on the Government to simply support these standards of the Union of Mariners of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20462	Thank you very much. You've expanded the subject a little bit, I think. We have one breach of the Rules of Procedure. Representative Matušić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20463	Madam Vice President, I think you've failed to give a warning to fellow Caine who said that a foolish measure has been taken, I think that kind of expression has been injured Article 214. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament are injured because a colleague insults and disrespects other MPs, those who voted. It cannot be expressed to such an extent as the opposite, for it has been brought in the best interest of good faith, that it will receive results such as saving human lives and preventing further traffic accidents. I ask you, since my colleague Cain is often demeaning and insulting that we could hear in yesterday's and yesterday's example when Mr. Rožić stepped in, however, following repeated examples of such examples to give him a warning, because I think it would be quite right.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20464	Thank you very much, dear colleague. I think we'll also have to warn our colleagues who are getting out of the bench. If we are going to interpret the Rules of Procedure very closely, I agree that we should stick to the Rules of Procedure. I warned my colleague that he'd expanded the subject a little bit, but I don't have a foothold in the Rules of Procedure to ban my colleague Cain from speaking. On behalf of the HSS Club representative Markov, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20465	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, Mr. Minister, the honourable representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. Finally, on behalf of the HSS Club, I would like to say that it is good and that it is a good practice that the amendments and additions or the new law, such as the case here respects practice, respect certain regulations that have been working in practice, and that this new Code has in some way given all of those elements that we have been through the regulation, whether through practical actions. What is most valuable is what this Naval Code brings, and what I have shown in the debate on behalf of the Club, I will repeat very briefly. It is good that profit tax, the reinvestment tax leaves the shipowners with the possibility that they can develop their activities and it is evident that all shipowners, all companies in this regard, are very satisfied. The issue of returning the Croatian flag as an institution that has disappeared since most shipowners have either failed or crossed over to the side of the flag is not a matter that will be resolved overnight, and that is one process that should be firmly guided, directed for reasons not to come back into the position because of the inability to hold the Paris Memorandum above all to come back in a position for certain small shipmen to be in a position in foreign ports not to carry out their duties and thus again the entire Croatian flag to come to the blacklist and then again to the problem that we cannot function. It is evident that the public finances but also the legal administrative infrastructure should make additional efforts and create the preconditions that Croatian shipbuilding can be recovered and that it really is our team outside and that we come back to that position we once had. The part that we have also shown in the debate that we think should be improved during the second reading refers partly to the working legislation or to the fact that the crew of the ship also means those who sail on board should provide those conditions that other citizens have working and that is the contract of work. I believe the second reading will make it work. I also want to take advantage of the opportunity attached to this law and using here the minister's presence that this morning almost the entire nautical public, especially Germany and Austria, was surprised by one comment by Tomislav Miletic, an assistant minister of the sea, tourism and reconstruction, who claimed that next year Kornati will be closed to sailors but that only those who have property will be able to sail. It's probably a clumsy construction, but I'm saying that Yacht revia, Both Revia, Adak asked our tourist representation to show up about this and I think it would be good. I believe that Mr. Captain was thinking of something else, of the freedom of passing a ship that passes, not of the boaters themselves, but the text was very roughly presented in the newspapers that are being read and I just want to point out that last year Adak measured the reasons for the arrival of the boaters in Croatia in one survey claimed that 63% of the reason for arrival was to visit the Kornati National Park. I believe that one reputation that is difficult to achieve especially in this activity, such as tourism and one position that Croatia has unquestionably in the nautical world, which is that the feather and the first country of Europe and the Mediterranean are not good in this way to spend both the clumsy and irresponsible statements we question because there is really no need for this. That is why I believe that this is also an opportunity to in some way deny what has been published today in the Morning List and I believe that this will avoid a lot of misunderstandings and I believe that the media are present at this session that this is an opportunity. So, in this way, by believing that in the second part, we will reconcile the common interests of this bill, and I believe that we will all be able to pass one good law together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20466	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HSLS Club, DC's respected deputy vice president, Đurđa Adlešić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20467	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Your Honor, Mr. Minister! As a club of HSLS and DC, we will support this law in our first reading. Indeed, it is an extensive and long-awaited act, but I believe that until the final adoption of the law I may repeat something that my colleagues and colleagues have already said, it is necessary to conduct a broader discussion with the Maritime Union, and I think we have not done anyone a favor that we have done today a little wise to see whether this law has contributed more to the Maritime Union or to the Shipman's Union. It's not our place to do that kind of assessment but to support a debate with the Marine Union, I think it's a good solution. We agreed that it is necessary to treat the rights of seamen on foreign ships more strongly, especially their labour rights, then pension and health care. I will repeat in part a number that is certainly interesting to our public, which is that it is about 27 to 30 thousand people of our citizens who sail under foreign flags who, according to some calculations, are making an annual amount of money in Croatia about 500 million dollars. So it's a very significant income that enters our country. We believe it is necessary to conclude the issue of the Coast Guard and the black charter that we've all been opening, but we haven't been able to get an answer, so I hope we get one in the second reading. Whether this will be settled under this law or it will be resolved by some rules that should be heard but certainly find a solution. There are some questions that I think are particularly sensitive, which are certainly not related only to this law which is a matter of sale or there is a black version of the possibility of selling our islands and these reckless and clumsy statements expressed in the morning list I also wanted to comment on. We believe it is necessary to deny or at least clarify because of our country's touristic reputation. So it doesn't turn out that the HSLS and DC Club is opposed to selling construction sites to foreigners. It's not like that at all. They need to be able to sell construction sites, build either hotels or private buildings of their own, but not sell out islands. We therefore also call on the Ministry of Foreign Affairs for stricter criteria in issuing such authorisations and opinions. I think there's an open question left and I hope someone from the government will answer that question. We are in HSLS and DC but I have noticed many other colleagues and colleagues from other clubs are opposed to nuclear ships in the Adriatic. The logical question arises if there will be an Adria company here, so we will have nuclear ships to combine these two facts with the exclusive tourism we attribute to and for which our country seems to be ready. However, the question arises if we decide to ban the navigation of nuclear ships in Croatia, which means if such decisions are not taken by our neighbours such as Slovenia and Italy and there is a job of diplomacy. So a unilateral decision by the Croatian government or parliament is certainly not the solution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20468	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Miroslav Rosic on behalf of the HSP Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20469	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Minister, if you can hear me, Secretary of State and everyone else from the Ministry! I'd like to brief just a few highlights in this final word. There is no doubt that the Maritime Law is in fact "the Maritime Constitution" of the Republic of Croatia in a certain way and the most basic legal act that needs to be addressed. There is also no doubt that he is extremely important to us because we are a maritime country and therefore the first thing the HSP Club is not satisfied with in the proposal of this law is the fact that despite what I just said in the Maritime Code, there are no articles relating to the formation of a coast guard. Therefore, one maritime constitution of a maritime country must have articles or works relating to the formation of a coast guard and to the efficiency of the work of the coast guard. No matter what concept they opted for. Secondly, as a principled remark, I must say that we are finally pleased that this Maritime Law contains articles relating to the passage of foreign warships through the territorial sea of the Republic of Croatia, or through an economic belt when it enters into force on 3 October. What is not precisely processed in these articles, and in our court must be the fact that it must be prescribed that every foreign ship or warship that, a foreign warship that wants to land in our port must have a Croatian flag on it, and not that such incidents must be repeated when a Spanish warship docking at the port of Ploče refused to actually report the flag of the Republic of Croatia because, not that I am, not only because it is a disregard for the sovereignty of Croatia because it is the demeaning of a country, but also for completely practical reasons. You know for a fact that every foreign ship under a foreign flag, especially a foreign warship, is actually an ex-terrestrial approach, and the space of that state, whose flag is hanging. Therefore, he, undermining, not only demeaning sovereignty but refusing to give the Croatian flag in our port according to international regulations adheres to certain rights which he should not. Furthermore, what we would like as a club is that in this Maritime Code in any way, even in the final and transitional provisions, it is indicated that two regulations will be adopted. The first is the Regulation on the assessment of nationalised ships that have never been brought and the second is the Regulation on the assessment of war damage on ships. I remind you once again of the fact that only in the Dubrovnik area during the aggression of Serbia in 1991 was damaged and submerged over 200 ships whose value has crossed EUR 100 million. Nothing about that, and what's still done about it, I'm taking the chance that there's a minister here. I should say that it should and could have been and must have actually been mentioned in the conflict agreement, that war damage on ships because Croatia is a maritime country and cannot be forgotten because it is not the subject of this code, but it is you as Minister and Ministry. Fourthly, I am using the opportunity here to find Mr. Kalmeta, I would say “seaman’s man” who can certainly, can inspire an international diplomatic initiative to make the Adriatic a particularly sensitive sea zone in accordance with the Conventions of the International Maritime Organisation, especially since two years ago, 13.6 years ago this Assembly has reached its conclusion on the initiative of the HSP that this initiative is being launched and that Mr. Ministers are asking you to, according to this conclusion and to this conclusion, to act in a certain way, and the HSP Club will support the adoption of this new Maritime Code because it agrees some Croatian laws with the new international conventions, but we also regret that we have to conclude regardless of our support, if it is not complemented by the economic Belt and the formation of the Coast Guard, that we will necessarily have to supplement it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20470	Thank you. The Croatian Democratic Community Club. Dear Representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20471	Mr. President, gentlemen of the Ministry, on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Club, I must stress the satisfaction of this proposal that came before us. And I must immediately say that this truly extensive text of the law actually covered all the areas and all the issues related to such a broad notion of sea management, maritime control, and all of this was contained in these over 1,000 articles of the law that is before us. I would like to point out on behalf of the Club several important specifics and several important issues and areas that have been resolved. First of all, when we talked about boaters, it was pointed out that this law really suits boaters and that the introduction of a mortgage, that it would facilitate their future business, but what is important for all of us, for the Croatian economy, will ensure the return of all ships under the Croatian flag. It's an extremely important process. We know what has been going on since 1991 when our shipmen had to look for business conditions and for other reasons, ways to settle down under other flags. So that question in this way is solved. I must admit that I come from a city that is very sensitive to all matters related to the sea and sea, first of all because this city of Dubrovnik grew up and founded itself, founded its wealth primarily on both sea and sea. So even centuries ago, this city has been regulated by its statutes and other acts by many of the questions mentioned today in this law, in one quality way and in this sense I consider this law to be a follower of exactly such laws and a very positive attitude towards sea and sea. When we talk about the sea as an economic resource, then we must highlight the really important provisions of this law regarding the protection of the sea, the protection of biodiversity and all those measures that will improve and the safety of navigation, but above all I say protect this wealth that is invaluable and which is indeed a source for development, for the future development of our country. We also welcome the government's decision to meet with the Marine Union before the second reading is announced. That is what we really welcome because we think that even if there are any other misunderstandings with the Maritime Union, it will be resolved until the second reading and we hope that this bill will be improved in this way. That I do not return to those topics that we have already dealt with, and as regards the harmonisation of this Law with all international conventions, it is necessary to say that a lot of work has been done in the last period and that this law really refers to all these conventions and I think that there is a significant step here. We're particularly sensitive to the so-called. “black charter” which has been mentioned here many times today, and I must say, I say the city from which I come is probably the most attractive and for “black charters”, so I believe that this issue will indeed be finally resolved by this law, and we would be happy to have it resolved before. We would have been truly much happier if this law had been passed in recent years and could have been put to the end of the “black charter” and many other problems that are tied up, which are really well solved by this law. In the end, it is not important to say that more favourable conditions have indeed been created for the business of Croatian shipowners and the world market. It means the survival of our shipowners and the world market, and I believe, I say, a few years ago, a law like this was passed so that we wouldn't have so many problems and that maybe some companies and survivors would be on that market. Here again on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Club, we support this law as much as possible, which will surely experience some minor changes until the second reading. In particular, this refers to these announced agreements with the Maritime Union, and in that sense we believe that it will be adopted and welcomed in the best way possible by all those concerned. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20472	Thank you very much. SDP club. Honorable representative Antun Perusko.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20473	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Secretary of State, Assistant Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Croatia, undoubtedly by its natural resources, is a maritime country for its sailors highly respected in the maritime world. 1185 islands. Almost six thousand miles of coastal edge. About 1,000 km of the sea border are all the prelogs that put us in the marine land. Unfortunately, in the process of conversion and privatisation, we destroyed a part of Croatian, in a world of recognised, and well-known shipowners. No more Split Adriatic, no more Mediterranean sailing, no more Sibenik sailing no more Croatia lines in which I personally invested part of my work. However, we have before us a maritime code that predences and I, on behalf of the SDPA Club, can say that to a large extent and manages to resolve all property legal, public legal and other aspects and that it is a law which Croatia as a seaman needs. The SDP Club also highlighted three fundamental objections, which relate to the resolution of the marine stutus in line with the legitimate requirements of the maritime union or, in the maritime profession, the seafarers simply have to stop feeling like second-class citizens. Their status should be tied to the privileged position of Croatian shipmen, which is good and in that same chain of Croatian shipmen for the Croatian flag. The second fundamental observation is related to the coast guard, simple jobs that the Coast Guard is tasked with performing in terms of protecting the Adriatic in terms of search and rescue and material goods and human lives at sea, which are jobs and so far, even though the divided have been successfully carried out. A seaman should not be subject to force of military discipline. Seafarers are people who in carrying out their features of particularly security and in terms of providing assistance at sea are solid and do not need to impose discipline on them they have imposed it on themselves. And the third is about the remarks about the release of ships carrying dangerous cargo, I don't think that's appropriate. I respect the debate Mr. Secretary of State also led, in terms of readiness for further talks with the maritime union, and depending on that, the SDP club will declare itself at the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20474	Thank you very much. The list of MPs and MPs has been exhausted. I ask Minister Bozidar Calmet for a final explanation of the bill. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20475	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Here I have to say that we've been paying attention to all the debates that were conducted here during yesterday afternoon and evening. And here by my humble court I think we really had a very professional discussion and a very constructive debate. And we will, of course, like I said yesterday when I explained the bill to all the things that have been said to honor. We'll consider it. And for all that we think is good and that one touch to this better Law of the Sea is trying to put into this proposal until another reading. We'll also be told it multiple times, and by Secretary of State Bacic here I am now repeating it in any case to hold a few more meetings as long as it takes with the union representatives. In order for that part to lead to the fact that unions are also absolutely satisfied with what is written in the Maritime Code. Although I must say this is the first time that the issue of the labour and social rights of Croatian sailors sailing under the Croatian flag to be included in the text of the Maritime Code. Which in any case guarantees them one significant security because it forces them through the ship’s obligation to be health and social security. And at the same time, it gives them what they write about the Law of the Sea that I spoke of yesterday and the privileges so that they might have a higher income. Here I clearly have no time nor can I look back at exactly what's been said here, although the crab I've been tracking everything and we've got everything written down. But I'm going to try to comment on some of the things I think is important to say. First of all, I said in the introduction that more than 70% of the articles were amended in this Law, or that a whole new article was written. Thus, there is no point in saying that, as the law here has been prescribed, the law was eventually started on it in the 98th year. And he practically did it in '99. During the former government he was once in the first reading and that was all. Here's today's refurbishing with over 70% of the articles. This is a new code. And in any case, I believe we'll all be together, or you'll starve him when he's in the second reading. But if only two things had changed in this Code, it could have been considered a major step in relation to all the laws so far. If only it had solved the ship's question, how was it resolved, and what you've commended here. Through these decisions on profit tax, or through the introduction of a new mortgage model, by the Anglo-Saxon model, so-called. Morgiga. And that we've added one more thing and that's especially when we're talking about yachts. What it would be created with, in any case, were the assumptions that the return charter would be contained. I think in this code that terrible big and big steps have been made. If that was all done, and I'm saying we changed over 70% of the articles, changed, wrote new ones, and that was one of the reasons, I was saying at the beginning why it went into the new code, not the amendments and the additions of the law. I'm not going to pollemize with my colleague Cain, he's got a little bit of that on the mainland. 0.5 has changed because this is the interpretation of the resolution of the international maritime orientation. We, too, have decided as a maritime country and as part of that system to respect these international maritime orientation resolutions. And that's why it's here 0.5. The 147 convention doesn't have Mr. Caine, I think she could have been accepted anyway. We prepared it. She's talking about seamen's working conditions, but the Ministry of Labour is the bearer of all that in any case we've prepared it. Coast Guard. You see, it's been tried six times now, and it's started to form a coast guard, but that coast guard has never been formed. We are, the government is phoning a co-ordination that is an expansive coast guard, which begins to monitor internal seawaters as well as the territorial seas in 3.10. Or to monitor and ZERP, which all seems to be doing somewhere over 60 thousand square miles. And this coordination, which is composed of 8 ministries, will certainly take place since 3.10 and how to start work. And we're going to have control of all of this now listed. After six months we have said and such a decision has been made that we will see all the advantages and disadvantages of such a system and then within a month, after 6 months we will propose to you the Coast Guard Act that will be called and we will suggest that the center of that coast guard be somewhere on the Adriatic, which I think no one will mind. In all the countries that have coastal guards, they are resolved by a special law, and so we propose, and therefore it cannot be mentioned in this bill of law, because so far it is still missing, but it will be regulated by a special law that will be known, I said before the Coast Guard Act, and I advocate it to be a civilian institution, but to include all the resources and all the technical assistance we have, regardless of whether it was the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Police, etc., etc. So, to be all involved, but to be one civilian institution, not a military one. But that's my opinion on it, about that afterwards. Therefore, surveillance begins at 3.10. The Coast Guard next year, clearly when you gentlemen advocates and advocates such a single law and vote, and we will certainly prepare it. The nuclear ship, around it spoke several MPs. First of all, I have to say that the change in this code in relation to the current, or the past, is not great, but I said that there is a border somewhere, there are practically borders on land, when we talk about internal seawaters or when we talk about the territorial sea, so somewhere the borders are practically within 100 meters, so nothing important is going to change there, but I accept and accept that it can still be discussed, that it can still be considered, whether the defence minister is the one who will allow it, as it says here, with the consent of the Ministry of the Sea, Tourism, Transport and Development, or whether it can be consulted, ask for the consent of some other institution, we will consider it until the second reading, and we will suggest it to you. I'm saying, that idea is not to be rejected. When it comes to riding on this proposal, we release the ships below 500 t, but the port captain can when he assesses it, so the port captain, when he assesses it, can order a boat ride under 500 t, which includes clearly then mega yachts, etc. So let's leave it to the port captain to assess what under the 500t needs a sedan, which it isn't. And the minister also writes here, he can specifically release ships up to 2,000 t, he can, but he doesn't have to. Why? You have a situation to have, say, the Split-Ancon lines, Zadar-Ancon. The Italians, on the Italian side, don't need a sedan, we do, but we believe that in such cases it can be freed from that, from the need to ride, but the condition must be that the captain who drives that ship has passed the pilot's exam. We think it's one good variant, because you always have ships that go into the same port twice a day twice a day for half a year, and I think that's the question of whether or not to have a cape there. Cabotage. Kabotage, there has been talk here about this exception, which states in Article 9 that, under special conditions, cabotage and ships that are not under Croatian flag can be allowed. So she's banned, but she can be allowed. Why? Well, you see, we have some examples when we have some ships of economics that we don't have in Croatia. Let's say, if we go lay down the cables, electrical cords. We don't have such ships in Croatia. Here, in about 20 months or early 10 months, one ship will sail to Croatia to study the submarine for the construction of the mainland-Peljesac bridge. It is a number of sides, under a foreign flag, a specialized ship that Croatia does not have. Croatian roads ordered it, and it will conduct tests, drilling down the submarines, to determine in that channel how it is based, how forward etc., that I do not now elaborate. It must be allowed to work in our sea, although it is under a foreign flag, etc. Therefore, we have left there the possibility that the minister by special regulation, that the minister may, that cabotage may be allowed, except for what it says in Article 9. I think it's less okay. There was also talk here about Jadran declaring himself an ecologically protected zone. I must say that we have initiated proceedings before the International Maritime Organisation, we, the Italians and the Slovenians, that indeed the Adriatic is declared a protected ecological zone, an ecologically protected zone, so that the procedure is in progress anyway. There were talks about customs and VAT, but the shipowners gave up on their own, because the VAT law is clear and there they no longer have any, they have practically no more objections, because VAT is not a cost, and customs are anyway, customs duties have been released. But it got rid of a special law. We're about a black charter... I spoke yesterday about the issue of black charter and I said that this code creates preconditions that can be passed a regulation that is practically already written, which will eliminate or lower to a minimum black charter. They'll get rid of it that way, some of them mentioned it here, which is that the ship will have to apply to the first port, the first port captain where they'll get the vignette, and unlike so far, when he gets that vignette, he'll pay all the costs practically, he won't have to pay in 10 places, but he'll pay in one place all the costs. He will report it to the crew, and that port captain will then clearly e-mail or in some other way of communication, in any case inform all port captainies who will then have both ship and crew, etc. Therefore, this is practically resolved and we hope that next year in Croatia we will have a grey black charter reduced to the highest possible measure. Clearly, this is never possible, unfortunately, to end up being eradicated. It was a question of barbeques, or courses. The memo went from the Ministry to all the captains that all the seamen who went through regular schooling were freed from courses. Therefore, I think that this issue is also resolved and that nothing should be said about it, because we have, we have practically solved this issue. Here, I don't know, I am, I think I answered those questions that I thought should be explained. I finally have to say that I really hold that this is a big step, both for sailors and for boaters, but also for Croatia as a maritime land, that when such a law is passed he will in any case make it possible for the faster economic development not only of the seamen, because I said yesterday that one dollar that turns into a seaship to pull another seven dollars. I also said that even countries that don't have seas like Switzerland. to encourage their fleets, etc. etc. Because it is both economic and strategic and whatever you want the interest of the Republic of Croatia, and this Maritime Code really creates such a prerequisite that we can deal with the conditions side by side with the most developed maritime countries and there is no more and there will be no more after the adoption of this Code than no reason for Croatian ships to veer other people's flags. I said he's got about 33 ships under someone else's flags. I'm talking clearly about big ships. And I am convinced that, after the adoption of this Naval Code, indeed, these 33 large ships are important, and now I am talking about large ships, will return under the Croatian flag, because it is very important to us how much we will be, how much shipping, maritimeity, or everything that is related to it will be. Here's another thank you for all the constructive discussions, for the expert discussions. We will repeat all of this and try to install as much as possible in the bill's proposal until the second reading, and by then we will hold further talks with union representatives, although we have also held talks with Croatian maritime sciences and professions, employers, trade unions. There were several presentations and there was one debate in the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts, but someone said this is a maritime constitution and it is true and it deserves in any case a broad debate and deserves to be respected by all those who are very important about this topic, both life and significance for Croatia, have something to say. I thank you, and I thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20476	Thank you very much. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of Shima Lucin.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20477	Thank you very much. In 3.10, no special sea surveillance can begin. Because if you go into changing any powers, entities that do different jobs at sea, it would be illegal. As for the coordination you mentioned, it exists in this country for two and a half years, only there were no eight ministries but six, and you have a written lead in the ministry. The other thing, no one questioned the piloting of these ships you were talking about. Here, as I understand it, most of us were only talking about dangerous cargo ships. Not for these big ships. It's understood that, you have the right to give. I'd like to consider that. Dangerous cargo and pilotage.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-16-0.u20478	I'm closing the debate. A proposal for the Maritime Code. The debate is closed. I am voting on the following conclusion: The proposal for a Maritime Code is hereby adopted. All objections, proposals and opinions will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare the final draft law. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? I find that, with 77 votes in favour and one abstention, the proposed conclusion has been reached.
