ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2490	Ladies and gentlemen, I am opening the 4th session of the Croatian Parliament and I warmly welcome you all to the President of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Ivo Sanader, vice presidents and present members of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received a record of the 3rd session at the session, any objections to the minutes? There isn't. I find that we have adopted the minutes of the 3rd session in the text as you have received it. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we're moving on to the agenda of the session. With the invitation to the session, you also received a draft agenda. You are also given the final draft agenda at the session. In the final proposal for the Agenda, I left out two points, and this was the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Medicinal Products and Medicinal Products with the final proposal for a law, no. 27. and Proposal for a Act supplementing the patent law, with a final proposal for a law, a proposal for a law No. 28. Because the two laws the government has withdrawn from the procedure. I have placed 10 new points in the final draft agenda. Also this: Report of the mandate-immunity committee, Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of an Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on a simpler exercise of border control and road and rail transport with a final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, draft law No. 38. Proposal for a law on the confirmation of a contract on conflict issues with a final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, draft law No. 39. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interest in Public Dutys, First Reading, Proposal for a Law No. 29. 5. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest in the conduct of public duties, with a final proposal for a law, the Proposer of the Clubs of Representatives of the HNSA, LIBRE and IDS, emergency procedure, first and second reading, draft law No. 43. Proposal for a law on the procedure for the handover of authorities, first reading of Bill No. 30. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Income Tax Act with a final bill, proposed by the SDP Representatives' Club an emergency procedure, first and second reading, draft law No. 44. 8. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the control of drug abuse, with the final proposal of the law, the proposal of the SDP Representatives' Club emergency procedure, first and second reading of P.Z. No. 35. Nine. Attorney General's office for the children, confirmation. And 10. Proposal for a Law on Protection and Rescue with a final draft law, Proposer of the Club of Representatives of the HSS emergency procedure, first and second reading, Proposal for Law No. 45. This Regulation shall enter The Rules of Procedure also determines that the proposal is to be adopted by an urgent procedure. In the final draft agenda under points 3 to 9, points 15, points 18, 19 and 20. Points 23 and 26 also state the laws proposed for the adoption of an emergency procedure. These are one: Proposal for a Law on Confirming an Agreement on Co-operation in Military Training between the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Turkey with a final draft of the law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. Number 21. 2., Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and Australia on Social Insurance with the Final Proposal for the Law emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 26. 3. Proposal for a Law confirming the contract between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Slovak Republic on cooperation and mutual assistance in disasters with the final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 34. 4. Proposal for a Law confirming the memorandum of understanding between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the United States of America on the protection of the right of intellectual property, with the final proposal for law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 22. 5. Proposal for a law confirming an agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on simpler border control in rail road transport with a final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 38. Six. Proposal for a law on the confirmation of a contract on conflict issues with a final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 39. Seven. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Establishment and Circumstance of Ministrys and State Administrative Organizations with a Final Proposal for Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading of P.Z. No. 33. 8. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the prevention of conflicts of interest in the conduct of public duties with the final draft law, Proposers Clubs of HNS-PGSA, LIBRE and IDS, emergency procedure first and second reading, P.Z. 43. Nine. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the laws on the obligations and rights of government officials with a final proposal for a law. Proposer of the Klub representative of the SDP emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 23. Ten. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the laws on the obligations and rights of state officials with a final draft law, the speedy procedure of first and second reading, P.Z. No. 31. 11. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the income tax law with a final draft law, Proposer of the SDP Klub, emergency procedure first and second reading, P.Z. No. 44. 12. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the prevention of drug abuse, with the final proposal of the law, Proposer of the SDP Representatives Club emergency procedure, first and second reading of P.Z. No. 35. And 13. Proposal for a law on protection and rescue with a final proposal for a law. Proposer Club of Representatives HSS Emergency procedure, first and second reading of P.Z. No. 45. The SDP representative club submitted an objection against the inclusion in the agenda and the implementation of the debate on the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of Understanding Memoranda, between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the United States of America on the protection of intellectual property rights with the final proposal for the Law an emergency move first and second reading. Until the opinion of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce and Pharmaceutical Industry is obtained. Does any of the MPs have any objection to an emergency procedure when passing these laws? We'll take it in a row. According to the proposal, according to certain laws. Please select your comments on the proposals for the adoption of the law by emergency procedure. Let's see it carefully one more time, please. For now, I have three representatives, Bebić, Rosic, Radoš, Vujic, Linic. Is there anyone else? There isn't. What? ... Where? [[You can't hear a bogey from a bench.]] But I'd ask you to raise your hand so that you can see clearly, not just like this. Anybody else have any agents? Thank you. Mr. Vice President Luka Bebić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2491	Mr. President of the Croatian Democratic Community Club opposes an emergency procedure, because there are no business reasons to be listed under the urgent procedure point 15. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest, Law No. 43, bill of law of the CNS, PGS, Libra and IDS. There are two other draft laws that go into the ordinary procedure, so I don't think I should, there's no need for this law to be discussed by emergency procedure. And if I can do others, don't take my word for it next time?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2492	Say it all.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2493	We also oppose the inclusion by emergency procedure of point 20. P.Z. No. 44 Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Income Tax Act, then 23. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the control of drug abuse, P.Z. No. 35 and emergency procedure, i.e. point 26. Proposal for a Law on Protection and Rescue, with the Final Proposal for the Law of P.Z. No. 45 for these reasons that I mentioned earlier that there is no business reason for it to be classified as an emergency procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2494	Thank you. Mr. Representative Miroslav Rosic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2495	Mr. President, the draft agenda does not stand around point 11. The proposal for the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia does not indicate whether the procedure is an emergency or regular procedure, and in the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament in Article 175(1) clearly states that the state budget is adopted as well as all other laws in the Croatian Parliament, therefore it would have to bear the mark of whether the procedure is urgent or regular. Otherwise, on behalf of the club, we object, our club opposes the fact that the state budget would be brought by emergency procedure for a simple reason because there are no legitimate reasons for this, or we are not really in any kind of pressure over time that the budget would have to be carried out by emergency procedure within two or three days, but we are asking for it to be brought in as provided for by the Rules of Procedure in normal two readings, which means first reading, and behind it second reading after the Government gave its opinion on the observations made in the first reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2496	Thank you. Honorable representative Jozo Radosh.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2497	Mr. President and my remarks are similar to Mr. Rožić's remarks. Therefore, there is no indication whether the state budget is adopted by emergency procedure or not. I also believe that in recent years we have adopted the standard by which the state budget as the most important de facto the most important document of the state should go into two readings for the Parliament and for the public, and I also note that the Final Proposal for the Law on the Implementation of the State Budget under the regular number of the 12th agenda bears the mark of the second reading. As we know, this law did not go through the first reading, so there can be no second reading if the first reading has not passed and I am against it, of course, the same way that this law is going into an emergency procedure, this is either a mistake or in some way avoiding the fact that it is clearly said that it is an emergency procedure. I don't think there's any reason for us to bring the state budget into an emergency procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2498	Thank you. Dear Representative Antun Vujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2499	Mr. President, I object to point 5th. Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the United States of America on the protection of intellectual property rights remains on the agenda for reasons already well known, but also for some I will add. So it's not just that you should see the opinion and hear the opinion of those who are interested in it, it means the chambers of commerce and the pharmaceutical industry, but that, on behalf of the Committee on Culture, Science and Education, the Secretary of State has postponed this point and said that it will come more prepared with more complete explanations and modified explanations, since there is also a formulation in the explanation of the possible introduction of sanctions from a higher Croatia which are therefore completely inappropriate to this text. I ask you to resolve this antinomy between the position of the motionary represented by the Secretary of State and the inclusion of this point in a way that it is now removed from the agenda, because I suppose the word of the Secretary of State has sufficient power, he was authorised on behalf of the motionor to declare it on the board. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2500	Thank you. Dear Representative Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2501	Mr. President, on behalf of the SDP Club, we have sent a written request for the download of point 6. We don't know the position of president and representative, but unless the request goes through, then we suggest that an emergency procedure be removed and the law goes into first reading. This is then our second observation if our first request is not passed by written request, and for the basic reason why this agreement was quickly signed in 98 with harmful consequences for the pharmaceutical industry and I would say different European Union views on intellectual property compared to the United States. And I think that without the position of the Chamber of Commerce, without the position of the pharmaceutical industry that would very much point to our differences in thinking about the signed documents, we should not open the debate in the Croatian Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2502	Thank you. And the esteemed representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2503	After hearing the remarks made by Mr Vujic and Linic, the IDS gave up on these objections, because if all the laws that bear the mark were removed from the agenda de facto, we would have nothing to discuss. Such laws are even 12. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2504	Thank you very much. We will go in a row, and I will give the necessary explanations for the individual proposals of the law and individual objections afterwards. Who is in favour of applying the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Confirmation of the Cooperation Agreement on Military Training between the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Turkey. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Restraint? I find that, unanimously with 128 votes on the agenda, this bill has been included in the emergency procedure. Who is for the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Confirmation of the Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and Australia on Social Insurance? Who's in? Thank you. Against? Restraint? I find that, unanimously with 128 votes for the agenda, this bill has been included in the emergency procedure. Who is for the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law confirming the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Slovak Republic on cooperation and mutual assistance in disasters. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Abstained? I find that, unanimously with 128 votes for the agenda, this bill has been included in the emergency procedure. Final proposal for a law confirming the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Slovak Republic on cooperation and mutual assistance in disasters. Who is to apply the emergency procedure for adoption? Yeah, you signed me up twice. Twice. And now we're going to this where there's been an objection. Who is in favour of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Confirmation of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the United States of America on the protection of intellectual property rights. Before that, we heard that the objection to the establishment of this point in the agenda and in writing before the session was addressed to the SDP's Club of Representatives on the final proposal of this Law. Today, representatives of the SDP have further explained the reasons why they propose not to include under 1 in the agenda of this proposal or not to apply the emergency procedure. Therefore, the SDP's Club proposal is to exclude this bill's agenda or in any case not to go by emergency procedure. The council heard the reasons and the argument, received a written objection. And I therefore vote: Who is for the application of an emergency procedure for the adoption of this Act? Thank you. Against? I find that with 74 votes in favour and 52 votes against the agenda by emergency procedure, the Final Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the United States of America on the Protection of Intellectual Property has been included. Next. Who is to apply the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on the Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on the simpler exercise of border control in road and rail transport. Who's in? Thank you. Against? I find that, unanimously with 126 votes for the agenda, this final bill was included in the emergency procedure. Who is to apply the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Confirmation of the Treaty on the issue of succession. Who's in charge of an emergency procedure? Thank you. Against? I find that, unanimously with 126 votes for this proposal, the law has been incorporated according to an emergency procedure. Who is for the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Establishment and Part-Corruption of Ministries and State-Government Organisations. Who's in? Thank you. Against? I find that with 89 votes in favour, 37 against and this law is included in an emergency procedure. The following is the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interest in the behaviour of public duties, which was proposed by the Clubs of Representatives of the HNS-PGS, LIBRE, IDS. We have here a complaint from the HDZ Representatives' Club on an emergency procedure, the HDZ Representatives' Club opposes an urgent procedure for the adoption of this bill. I vote, who's in favour of an emergency procedure for the adoption of this bill? Thank you. Against? I find 48 votes for the emergency procedure, 78 against it. So the emergency procedure was not accepted, so it goes into regular procedure. For the purposes of applying the emergency procedure for the adoption of the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Obligations and Rights of State Officials, which was proposed by the SDP Advocacy Club, we have here an identical situation that the HDZ Representatives Club opposed the application of an emergency procedure for the adoption of this Act. I vote, who's in favour of an emergency procedure for the adoption of this Act? Thank you. Against? I find that the emergency procedure is 49 and against 77. So the law goes into regular procedure. ... The next item, which is who for the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Obligations and Rights of Officials proposed by the Government? [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Who's in charge of an emergency procedure? Thank you. Against? I find that with 123 votes for and 3 against this bill is included in the emergency procedure, by emergency procedure. Please, Mr. Rosic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2505	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'm really asking on behalf of the club to vote on this again for the simple reason that counting votes were not true. I again warn of the business provision on how abstentions are being counted. Or in this case, if you like, there were more votes against three, and besides, it doesn't agree with the final sum of the previous one.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2506	Thank you very much. Otherwise, at the request of the MPs, there's a repeat vote and we're going to do it now. No, no abstentions on the agenda. So we'll do it again. Who is responsible for the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Obligations and Rights of Officials proposed by the Government? Who's in charge of an emergency procedure? Thank you very much. Who's against it? I find that 86 votes for the emergency procedure, 38 votes against the emergency procedure. There goes the emergency procedure. The following point is the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law amending and supplementing the Income Tax Act proposed by the SDP Representatives' Club. We also have an objection here to the urgent procedure of the HDZ Representatives' Club, which opposed the urgent procedure. I'm putting it to the vote. Who is to apply the emergency procedure for the adoption of this Act? Thank you. Against? I find that for an emergency procedure, 42 votes are against 84. So the bill of law goes into regular procedure. The next item is the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Act on Amendments and the addition of the Law on the control of drug abuse proposed by the SDP Representatives Club. There is also an objection to the emergency procedure of the HDZ Representatives' Club. Who is to apply the emergency procedure for the adoption of this Act? Thank you. Against? I find that for the emergency procedure, 47 votes are against 79. The law goes into regular procedure. The final proposal for a law on protection and rescue proposed by the HSS Representatives' Club is an emergency procedure. We also have an objection from the HDZ Representatives Club to the inclusion of this proposal for an emergency procedure. I'm putting it to the vote. Who is to apply the emergency procedure for the adoption of this Act? Against? Thank you. I find that 53 votes for an emergency procedure, 74 against it. So this bill of law goes into regular procedure, too. Let me now welcome the students of the 18th High School from Zagreb, students of the Faculty of Political Sciences from Zagreb, representatives of the University Organisation of HSS and citizens, as well as representatives of the National Democratic Institute for International Relations who are following today's discussion from the gallery. Let's say hello. In addition to those which have been resolved on the memorandum, there have been no objections to the call for a session, and Article 203(4) does not apply. The Rules of Procedure consider the agenda adopted. [[Applause]] This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the Objection can now be made only to those points which did not contain the draft agenda, accompanied by a call for a session. The report of the Mandate-Immunity Commission shall be included under point 1. Under point 14., the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interest in the conduct of public duties, first reading, P.Z. No. 29. Under point 17, the Proposal for a Law on the procedure of handing over authorities, first reading, P.Z. No. 30. The Rules of Procedure of the Advocates for the Children and its Confirmation have also been included under point 24. Before that, I am obliged to respond to the proposals and remarks made on behalf of the clubs regarding the state budget. Dear Representative Miroslav Rožić, on behalf of the SDP Club, I apologize, on behalf of the HSP Club, for the esteemed representative Jozo Radoš, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the LIBRA, who also objected to the Law on the Implementation of the State Budget. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, first of all, as regards this objection, which was referred to by the esteemed representative, Jozo Radoš, I should say that according to the provision of Article 174. The Rules of Procedure, together with the proposal for a state budget, shall also be submitted with a proposal for a financial plan of the extra-financial funds with an explanation, and the Final Proposal for a Law on the Implementation of the State Budget. Therefore, the Final Proposal of the Law on the implementation of the state budget is submitted together with the proposal for a state budget, and thus the Government has acted. With regard to this second objection concerning the proposal to bring the state budget for this year into two readings, as proposed by the HSP Representatives' Club, also the Club of Representatives of the Libre, I would say that it was a great practice and application of the Rules of Procedure in the previous assembly, and that is excellent, in the same way that it has been applied and proposed now. Each budget in 2000, 2001, 2002 and 2003 was adopted by such interpretation of the Rules of Procedure in the same way as it is now proposed by this proposal. Such good practice has no reason to change. And that was a really good practice, and I've checked exactly all the dates and procedures as it was passed, and I don't think there's a good one in this House that needs to be changed. Please, dear representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, be my guest.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2507	Dear Mr. President, at a session on 30 January 2004, following a complaint by the SDP Club that you had injured the Rules of Procedure when you took away the word of Agent Nenad Stazic, who spoke on behalf of the SDP Club, which happened for the first time in the history of this Croatian Parliament, you made a public promise to act in accordance with Article 209(1) of our Rules of Procedure, i.e. to ask the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system to give an opinion on it, but that's not what you did within 24 hours, here it is, now it's already been 624 hours, so please tell us for our knowledge and conduct whether you do it or not?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2508	Thank you very much. Let's just conclude this part that applies. Dear Representative Rosic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2509	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I am truly surprised by the fact that no parliamentary practice that was introduced in 2001, 2002 and 2003 was considered to be a real improvement in parliamentary practice. I thought it wasn't. Since the HSP Club has never participated in the establishment of parliamentary practice until now in the Croatian Parliament, because we did not belong to the majority, I objected on behalf of the Club in the emergency procedure of the budget and further our Club considers this practice very bad, regardless of what was introduced after 3 January 2001. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2510	Thank you very much. She's been there before. Dear Representative Radosh.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2511	Mr. President, you said it was a practice to bring a state budget to the same session in some procedure you didn't define. I have to say that on several occasions over the past few years, it should be practice, the practice was to bring the state budget to the same session, but with two readings. I don't object on behalf of the Club of Libre to bring the budget to this session. But I object to him being brought without two readings, so in an emergency procedure. We have enough time to have a three-session session... of this House have a second reading or possibly at the end of March 2 reading of the state budget. No matter whether it is brought to one session or at two sessions. It's important to bring the budget into two readings.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2512	Thank you very much. Here comes the ladies and gentlemen just for one more explanation. The 2000 budget was sent to MPs 8. 3., it is included in the agenda as a supplement to the agenda 15. 3rd and that same day 15. The 3rd debate on the budget also began. Continued on 16 and 17, the deadline for the submission of the amendments was set and thereafter the vote on the amendments at the next session. The 2001 budget, the text of the budget that are two texts, the one that was delivered 17. 11. In 2000, so the government pulled him out, the new text came in 30. 11. Sended to MPs 4. 12, included in the agenda, 6. The 12th was already debated, the deadline for submission of amendment 8. 12, debate 12 and 13, vote 13. 12. The same delivery from the Government for 2002 was 16 years ago. 11th, sent to MPs 21. 11, included as a supplement to the agenda 21. 11, debate 22. 11, deadline for the submission of the amendment 29. 11, vote 11. 12. For 2003, delivered on 6 February 2002, sent 8. 11, listed as Appendix 8. 11th, hearing 14th and 15th, deadline for submission of amendments 20. 11, Amendments to Government 5 and vote 6. 12. 2002. Therefore, there is indeed no reason to change not only the practice, but also the practice of applying the Rules of Procedure. I would like another honourable representative, Vice President Vesna Pusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2513	Thank you, Mr. President. The more difficult circumstance in the case of this draft budget is that we have no comparative data, we have no comparative data at least for the basic items within each head, so within the budget about what the budget looked like last year and how, so what the amounts looked like last year and what they look like this year. We even asked that question on the board yesterday, so we're told it's too complicated for the Ministry of Finance to work out, and imagine how complicated it is for MPs to get insight into comparative data. That I think is an argument in favor of what my colleagues are saying about two readings.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2514	Thank you very much. Now we're going back to whether any of the MPs have objected to including those points in the agenda that weren't in the final draft agenda? To remind you, Report of the mandated commission, Amendments and additions to the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interest in Public Liaison, Proposal for a Law on the Procedure of Handling of Authorities, Rules of Procedure of Advocates for Children. There isn't. Take it easy, Prime Minister, we'll do anything. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] It is not now, from colleague Pusic it was actually a debate on the reasons that this will be presented in the debate. Just a minute. First, ladies and gentlemen, we will determine that before that, there is only one answer to the request of respected MPs Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic. It is true that last session came about that I, as president of the session, said that unless someone was satisfied with my explanation that it was an injury to the Rules of Procedure to resolve this matter by the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system but it was, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, the duty of MPs. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following The Rules of Procedure shall be given an explanation after the appeal has been made. I gave an explanation. If the representative is not satisfied with the explanation given, he may request the opinion of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system within 24 hours. The MP didn't ask for that. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2515	Your Honor, Mr. President, this isn't exactly what you said because you're a representative, and I'm just asking, and that's what you promised to do exactly as an article 210, and you as Parliament president are also a representative. You've made a public promise to ask. I'm just asking you now whether you're gonna do it or not?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2516	This is about the fact that, according to the Rules of Procedure, an agent who is not satisfied with the explanation may ask for it. I wasn't a representative who wasn't satisfied with the explanation of myself.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2517	But you made a public promise.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2518	Ladies and gentlemen, the agenda has been established. In accordance with Article 205 of the Financial Rules of Procedure, I should now publish the established agenda by the same usual good practice if you agree that I am not reading the full agenda but simply announcing that the agenda has been established as proposed in the final draft agenda and is thus voted. If the MPs agree and I see they agree, we determine that the agenda is established. Mr. Representative Slaven Letica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2519	Thank you, Mr. President. Actually, I wanted to appeal to the Prime Minister, but apparently the agenda has been established. This is an overly serious problem of the relationship between the executive and the legislative authority in relation to the Budget Law and the great imbalance and power, and therefore an emergency procedure is a dangerous precedent that cannot defend any criteria of efficiency. According to the law, the government is the proponent of the state budget. She has professional services at her disposal, she has institutes, she has budget items. And on the other hand, this high house approves of this budget but does not just approve it on its own behalf but approves it on behalf of tax payers in this country. Therefore, it is the highest or highest level of political, moral, so if you want civil responsibilities and I, when it is already accepted, Mr. Prime Minister at least in your term, I ask you never to do it again because we will be in a position to pretend to be so-called. The draft parliament, meaning parliament in the press, will confirm decisions without the right to a critical outcry and a constructive contribution to the budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2520	Thank you. I ask the Prime Minister, even though the agenda has been established to manifest itself. Yes, Mr. Cain. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Here you go, Mr. Prime Minister!
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2521	Your Honor, Mr. President!
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2522	The Prime Minister has, Damier.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2523	And why didn't I get my word?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2524	Well, because the president gave me his word and the MP asked me directly what it was and there were several objections to the inclusion and this kind of procedure regarding the state budget, the draft state budget, and I am obliged to say a few words also for the sake of the Croatian public and for the sake of all of you. Why we have proposed such a procedure has explained why the Bureau of Parliament has proposed such a procedure has also explained the president. But we need to know one thing. First of all, I want to say very clearly that the government led by the Prime Minister did well not to bring a budget for 2004 before the election. This does not seem to happen, and I think a standard has been reached that should be maintained by each government if elections are held and the current government never brings a budget to any democratic country before the end of the year. It brings the temporary funding that the government has passed and now it's not serious from any government that after the temporary funding has been passed, after the elections, a new government has been formed that we are now entering here now is now February. We've been trying, we've tried, and it seems to me that we've managed to put together a budget like this in record time and less than two months. It seems logical to expect the Croatian public to expect, that it hopes to bring this budget into this process in which the already inaugural practice in this House was the good one or not as the representative of what he has the right to say but is an inaugural practice. Even when there was a lot more time than we have, we are already in February, we will adopt it if the Parliament so decides in March. Therefore, it will be used practically over the next 9 months. I think it's unserious to go to first reading, to second reading, to drag it out for weeks because we just want to bring that budget. And again, it wouldn't have been right if the last government had brought it before the election. So these are democratic standards that are consistent and that you can compete with all other countries and it seems to me that this is the only possible way in which to bring the budget in order for it to finally begin to apply. In addition, I will not enter, and that will probably be the topic in the debate where we will defend the budget and where some who have objections will raise objections but the Minister of Finance will certainly give an analysis of this three-month interim funding proposed by the Government where we already have a shortfall in this temporary funding. Therefore, we are in the interest of both Croatian citizens and all those for whom the budget is created to bring it as soon as possible. That's the reason. There's no reason for the Parliament to take short action. It is simply the end of February, will be adopted in March for this year. Therefore, if it was a practice of the past years that was brought to the same procedure in November and December for next year, huh, it is logical to expect that we will and that we want to make a budget as soon as possible when we have been well set in 2004.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2525	Thank you very much. Injury of the Businessmen, the honourable representative of Zlatko Tomic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2526	Mr. President, I think it's time we finally started sticking to the Rules of Procedure. We've established the agenda, and that's what you've established, so there's no point on the agenda that's being discussed. Until a point is debated, no one can speak nor does a representative of the government. The applicant's representative, the applicant's representative, has the right to speak on any point during the debate. There was no argument. I don't mind what Mr. Sanader said, in terms of reasoning, but we need to find a business model to make it happen. The agenda is established and the agenda is no longer discussed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2527	Thank you very much. Honorable representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2528	Well, I agree that the budget should be discussed in two readings. However, the fact is also indisputable that we have always had practice before and after 3 January that practically at the same session, we are discussing the budget measure, and after that, the amendments. However, has anyone noticed that Mr. Shakespeare has done this in a maestro way that since the current morning... virtually denied an hour to ask questions. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Now, that's a question we should discuss during this morning.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2529	Thank you very much. It wasn't me who denied it. It was my dear colleagues and colleagues. who sought certain explanations and resolutions. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And now we're finally going on, we're going to the current morning. Comrade Lucin, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2530	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, since you're still breaking the Rules of Procedure because you're giving the word out, past the agenda point, I thought you'd be consistent with your statement that you'd do anything to keep the Parliament from being a chateau. And that discussion and debate and the integrity of this House are at a level. But it seems to me the way you run this session of the Parliament, that you yourself are doing from this House what you said it looked like.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2531	Thank you, dear colleague Lucin. I didn't say that, and I'll say it again, I said that some people would want the Parliament to be a chat room, not that it's identified or I'm saying that this Parliament or any other chat room. There would be a final draft law on confirming the memorandum of understanding between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the United States of America on the protection of intellectual property rights, with a final proposal for law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading of P.Z. No. 22; Since the relevant Committee on Education Science and Culture has scheduled a session for tomorrow morning at 9 p.m. with that agenda item on the Committee. We don't have the conditions to dissipate. So we'll take a break after the Committee has held a session and sent its report. Please. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2533	/Speaker not enabled/
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2534	I cannot interpret respected colleagues at the end of the entanglement of the Rules of Procedure and it is quite relevant that in this case the working body will be declared with the home working body. And intellectual property is part of the detour and the Committee on Education and Science, which belongs primarily to science. As far as I can see and know in the section of the Committee on Science is the adoption of the law implementing policy, and there are duties of the parent body of areas relating to science, intellectual property, and they include science both in technical cooperation and in scientific international technical cooperation, so it is fully and relevant that, whether this Committee on Education, Science and Culture or the Committee on Information and Media. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2535	Mr. President, I don't think it's relevant what is being concluded, because you are just the fact that you are not discussing, not making any final decisions on the Committee on Science, listed as the reason for the postponement of this session. We can postpone the debate on this agenda point and because this committee has not discussed it, but it cannot possibly be a fact that it is a parent working body. It is very precise in the Rules of Procedure that intellectual property is the subject of a parent debate on the Committee on Information, Information and Media.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2536	I agree with you. But it also says in the section of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture that the parent body is this committee. If it is international, scientific and technical cooperation, and if it is science. Let's have a discussion of both committees. I can't arbitration here which board is parent when the committee's workings are very often mixed up. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we continue our work at the 4th session of the Croatian Parliament. I welcome you all very much. I welcome the members of the government present. In order to facilitate benching, you are given a purified agenda. As regards the final proposal for a law amending the Law on Health Insurance, the amendment of the labour law and the final draft of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on maternity leave of mothers who carry out the independent activity and unemployed mothers in the first reading, we have held a united debate because this is an identical topic and I propose that we now conduct a united debate on these three draft laws. Madam Representative Ljubica Lalic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2538	Thank you, Mr. President. It seems to me that you are going straight to the purified agenda or the final agenda. Since we had last week's and night's sessions and it was very difficult to follow, MPs should know exactly what we're going to do today, what are we going to do tomorrow, and we should especially know when the amendments to the State budget will be discussed? Can you give us information?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2539	Thank you very much. Uh, this set of laws that goes into motion is supposed to be discussed and adopted first. This is planned for the morning, and if the time does not come, the debate and adoption of these laws will continue until it is concluded. After that, we are going immediately to discuss amendments to the implementation of the State budget and others. It is time-consuming, clearly, that the timeline will depend on how we end up and conclude the debate on these first 7 points of the purified agenda. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2540	Mr. President, if I understand you very well these 7 points of the agenda, given the interestingness of the subject, it should take until 7 or 8 o'clock in the evening, and only then would they approach the amendments, which means that the debate on amendments will take place outside public observation. Given that the State Budget is a basic act, the basic document of a state that depends not only on the present but also on the future, we suggest that amendments start to be discussed tomorrow morning in front of television cameras to hear the proposals, but also on the government's arguments, which is why it accepts the amendment. I think it would be in the government's interest. However, if you stay at the hearing at midnight, which means in secret on behalf of the Croatian Peasant Party Club, we are looking for a half-hour break.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2541	Thank you very much. Slowly, slowly, in turn. Your Honor, I'd like to hear some of the MPs, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2542	I suggest that a united debate be held on points 4, 5 and 6 because they are connected. One conditioned the other.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2543	Okay. Representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2544	Dear Mr. President, it's logical that what you've just told us before is that this set, the first seven points of the agenda, be discussed before the adoption of the budget. However, Mrs Ljubica Lalic is right when she asks for a debate on the amendment during tomorrow. There is no need for a different approach to the debate on amendments. We believe Prime Minister Sanader will be present when they are discussed. Apparently he has an appointment with Nicole Kidman in Bucharest which is good, but I still think the debate on the amendments is far more important and that is why it should be put on the agenda Thursday.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2545	On behalf of the HSP Club, representative Tonci Tadic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2546	Dear Mr President, it is really logical that all laws that could affect the budget by their implementation, but also the HSP Club requires that tomorrow's day in full be devoted to the amendments to the Budget, not that this debate lasts in the late evening or all-night hours because it does not serve the Croatian Assembly. If you insist, however, that the debate must be held at all costs tonight, we are also looking for a half-hour break from the HSS Club. There's really no reason, Mr. President, for us to even transfer that debate for the next week. There's no rush. We have a whole month to adopt the State budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2547	Dear representative Milanka Opačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2548	Well, on behalf of the SDP Club, she'd like to say that I agree with all the previous clubs and we support their position that there is really no reason for any amendments to the Budget to be made and voted on during the night, so somewhere until morning. We therefore believe that there are no reasons nor any legal or constitutional to do so quickly, and we believe that it should be tomorrow at half past 10 when we start working at our session, given that there are a very large number of amendments and that the vote on these amendments will take an extremely long time. And yet another Mr. President, I am asking you nicely to explain why we are already here at the second or third session of this house, we are not using an electronic vote, given that the taxpayers have singled out a little over 200 thousand Euros for this, so why don't we use this way of voting? If you are afraid of indiscipline in your ranks, you will have to resolve it in a different way than by denying us an electronic vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2549	Okay. Dear Representative Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2550	Dear Mr. President, I would like to join the request of all my colleagues to discuss and listen, the government's statement of amendments to the State budget we have in the course of tomorrow. That's the more the government shows about the amendments at the moment we don't have. I think there's plenty of time to have that quality discussion tomorrow. Indeed not at speed in the night or evening hours when the concentration is indeed impossible to watch. And I am also joining the idea or the proposal that an electronic voting system will be able to be put in place until the amendment vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2551	Honorable representative William Herman.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2552	On behalf of the Libra Club, also a proposal to separate the debate on amendments tomorrow, a settled, peaceful, day-long debate if necessary. Of course also for the public, but first of all because of the very essence of the problem, which is that the budget is discussed when it is time. The storm is night and wake. So we join the proposals when, all the clubs that suggested that it happen tomorrow. We also agree to allow if necessary and with appropriate education as soon as possible by electronic voting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2553	Thank you. Honorable representative Jozo Radosh.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2554	I give up.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2555	You're giving up. Dear Representative Zlatko Kramarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2556	Thank you, Mr. President. It is well known to you that we have always advocated transparency in all Parliament’s meetings, especially on such important topics. I would also ask you to accept these suggestions from colleagues who have discussed before me and that indeed the debate on the Budget, the amendments go tomorrow, publicly, transparently, there is no reason for any secrecy. And usually the people say that the morning is smarter than the night, and we don't think anything will get lost. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2557	And finally, respected representative Luka Bebic, vice president of the home on behalf of the HDZ Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2558	Mr. President, I suggest that, as the last time we discussed the debate in our first reading, Bill No. 567, also 46th, 47th and 48th. Since we are a little late, to discuss these laws, to move on to the adoption of the budget once conditions have been created, to discuss amendments. When, of course, the conditions are ensured. And secondly, I would like to say on this proposal that amendments and budgets are generally not going deep into the night. We discussed last time how the Rules of Procedure, the budget in the last term, were brought four times and the staff. So since we realized that the practice was good, that it would be good to continue with such practice as with the practice of time and daily work schedules as it was in the previous Parliament's session, because Mrs Lalic's proposal would have gone awry in other ways of discussing the budget, it was a practice in the previous Parliament's meeting, so it's not good to change the practice quickly. If there is an opportunity, of course, we are all in favour of discussing the budget as a very important item of the agenda in front of the Croatian public, as has been the case so far. So we're not looking for anything special, but to continue the practice that has been in this House so far, including the time when it's being discussed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2559	Gentlemen and ladies, correcting Mrs. Ljubica Lalic's incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2560	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm correcting the wrong assumption. Because Mr. Luka Bebic said it was a practice to discuss the budget late at night. That's just not true. Only the first year was so debated, but I forgive Mr. Baby, because forgetfulness is a characteristic of his age. And how we're just the first time...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2561	Do you have anything else to add, Mrs. Lalic, besides the insult of Agent Bebić?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2562	I have Mr. President, I have a request for you to give me a warning. And secondly, I have an addition, I agree that practice continues, but practice continues in a way that we start voting on amendments in the morning.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2563	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Luka Baby's injuries to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2564	Lalic found that I said that in the late hours of the night, it is not simply true. I just said we're going back to practice. If you recognized that practice in the late hours of the night, then that's your problem, I didn't claim it, I was just arguing that we should continue practice, including time. And as for my age, what will you do? That's right, I'm not in the first flower of youth like you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2565	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I have given the necessary explanations in accordance with the Rules of Procedure on the way of today's session. I listened to the proposals on behalf of different clubs, which proposed a postponement of the debate on the amendments to the budget and the budget tomorrow. As regards the observations and proposals made by Ms Opačić and some other representatives on the electronic vote. This system is not yet operational, and when it is operational it will also be applied to this assembly. It is no reason for my colleague Opačić to be afraid of public electronic voting, but simply because the system is not yet operational. Furthermore, as for all the other proposals, all the other proposals, I've given the necessary explanations, I've listened to all your suggestions. We will continue with this consolidated agenda, and in about 13 hours, we will decide together, decide whether or not the budget amendments will be discussed during the afternoon or will start tomorrow morning according to your proposals. Let's go to this draft agenda. Please, Deputy Prime Minister, Mrs. Jadranka Kosor. I'd like the Deputy Prime Minister, Mrs. Jadranka Kosor, to take your word. Pursuant to Article 209(1), (2), (3), (4) and (5), the representatives shall not be able to respond to the presentation of the chairperson. Let's go, Madam Vice President. I told you when you'd give it to Stanko under what conditions. Here you go, Madam Vice President. Here you go, Madam Vice President! Here you go, Madam Vice President! Here you go. Here you go, Madam Vice President! This nice way is. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2566	Madam President, I cannot speak to you until there are no conditions for that in the assembly.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2567	Comrade Tomcic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2568	Mr. President, so far it has been practice in the Croatian Parliament not only in the Rules of Procedure but also in the parliamentary practice that we have introduced, and until now this practice has never been violated, so please do not break it this time. Every time any club asked for a break for any reason, every break was given. I ask you, in this respect, to respect both the Rules of Procedure and the established parliamentary practice in order to create unnecessarily strained relations in this House. Allow those half-hours at the request of those clubs who asked for it. And beyond that, we're going to get to the bottom of your proposal, and I think that would actually be a normal way of working in this House. I ask you to refrain from self-will compared to the practice introduced so far in this House. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2569	I thank you for this, especially for this self-will assessment. You are very qualified to object to me about the will to conduct the session. And as for the motion for a break and the representative of your club, it put forward a conditional motion for a break only if it decides to hold an amendment debate now. I have made it clear and precise that we will talk about the pause, about the budget and the amendments to the budget that I will make a decision about 13 hours, depending on this debate that will last on these three laws. But that you're famous for warning me of your own free will I won't give you that pleasure to bring to the public that such an objection is being made to me, I'll give you a break. But, dear colleagues and colleagues, these breaks should be in the function of the work of this Parliament taking place both rationally and economically. We'll continue in 30 minutes. ... HSS, Honorable Representative Zlatko Tomcic. [[beginning not saved]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2571	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Madam Deputy Prime Minister. Very short, just a few sentences. I want to, I don't have anything to squeeze here. Do, is now on. As regards the application of the article... Can we do it now? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Can you do that? Mr. President, Madam Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, a few sentences. First, as regards Article 209 which literally reads: "A representative who wishes to speak about the breach of the Rules of Procedure, the President gives his word as soon as he so requests.". It is indeed a bad practice to try in any way, the one who presides to prevent the expression of the MPs on the breach of the Rules of Procedure and therefore I appeal to the President of the House not to do so in the future. As far as parliamentary practice regarding the breaks that the clubs are looking for, we have so far had the practice of really every club that requests a break for any reason and gets that break and I think that so long as we don't regulate this matter to the Rules of Procedure, it would really be good for this parliamentary practice to stick to. We at the HSS Club on the topical problem when amendments to the state budget will be discussed we ask the President and the Presidency to make a decision immediately when the amendments will be discussed with a note, that the amendments are still not systematised, that we have not yet received the amendment book, which is understandable that this is a large job. The amendment is close to 450. As far as I know, clubs would probably need to talk about these amendments and discuss and take views on which amendments will vote. It would also be good to know in some ways what the government's view of certain amendments is, although it is not mandatory. The budget, the state budget is an important issue for the present, for the future, but also a very demanding issue for the debate in this House, for which, which requires a concentration, is a certain will to find the best solutions and certainly to discuss such an important matter in the night, which would probably take place up to the early morning hours, is not good. I note that the Croatian public is very interested in hearing and seeing the views of certain parties, but also in the Government of the Republic of Croatia on certain amendments, but also in making the public properly and fully informed, I think it would be good to enable Croatian media, therefore, journalists accredited here in the Assembly to be able to monitor our debate in a dignified way. So I ask that the position be taken immediately when amendments are to be voted upon and therefore I will not abuse 15 minutes, as far as I have the right to speak on behalf of the club. I also appeal to other clubs not to use their quota of 15 minutes to discuss these laws that are on the agenda as soon as possible, so that they can hold a regular vote for all that is scheduled, so that they can prepare themselves neatly for tomorrow's debate on amendments. As for the electronic vote, since I was president of this House in the last session, I claim that the electronic voting system, when the last House meeting was disbanded, was in good condition. And the problems that came to us during the vote came only for one reason, which is why some MPs irresponsibly treated the keys that were used for identification and every day had to be recoded by a large number of keys, and therefore, at the end of the last call, we did not vote electronically. With him, there was a problem with that system at first. The performers removed these problems and the system was fully correct at the end of the 12 months and therefore I appeal that we move to an electronic vote, given that it is faster, more efficient, but also clearer. And allow in the end, with another appeal to all clubs not to use all of their 15 minutes to start discussing today's agenda as soon as possible, to bring this House back to dignity with these remarks. On behalf of the Club, I apologize for the insults that were made on behalf of the Vice President of the House, Mr. Representative Luke Bebić. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2572	Thank you very much. SDP club. Here you go. Dear representative Milanka Opačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2573	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. On behalf of the SDP Club, we have also joined the proposals of the HSS Club, but also other clubs of opposition that we think the budget is the most important topic in the Croatian Parliament and every year, so once a year there is no more important and important topic on which the Croatian Parliament discusses from the budget. That's why last week, last week, so we sat here until three o'clock in the morning, discussed the budget, and we think that the actual vote on amendments and only the adoption, so finally the budget is not a substance that can be passed in the early morning. And that's why we're asking, on behalf of the SDP Club, for it to be decided immediately, to vote on amendments to the budget tomorrow morning. In this procedure, we have addressed 430 amendments which, according to the business procedure, if we were to fully respect it, therefore, the vote by or voting on these amendments would take a full 14 hours, if any breaks or anything else were to happen, it would take a lot longer. Therefore, we need to start voting not until tomorrow morning, and not this afternoon, or God forbid, somewhere in the evening. It should also be said that there is no reason for haste. We are working another two days in Parliament according to what is scheduled and how the session in the agenda has been announced. Therefore, there is no reason to start voting on amendments until tomorrow morning. In the budget that is important for Croatian citizens and we think that Croatian citizens as well as Croatian media who are monitoring the work of the Parliament should be informed and should know everything and how to edit in the Croatian budget. Because this is how we're going to see if we're going to build railways, if we're going to keep building roads, if we're going to build schools, if we're going to fight unemployment, if we're going to single out enough resources for a socialist who's going to be socially sensitive. Therefore, the budget concerns every citizen of this country and everyone should have full information about what is going on in his next budget and how it is, therefore, his problems are going to be solved. The Minister of Finance, Mr. Shuker, spoke here a few days ago about the state budget and how only this House and the MPs in this House decide on the budget and vote on it. Therefore, and because the finance minister said we as agents still don't have enough information on some things. In this debate, the ministers could hear that some mistakes have been found in the budget and that they will correct these mistakes, we have not received any information about this and because we can make quality decisions on the new budget and vote on any amendments that will be made before us on behalf of the SDP Club, we are asking that the decision be made now on amendments not until tomorrow morning.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2574	Are there any other club representatives? On behalf of the HSP Club, Mr. Representative Tonci Tadic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2575	Dear ladies and gentlemen, Your Honor, Madam Vice President of the Government. Making the State budget is the most important job of the Croatian Parliament every year. The state budget is the mother of all policies of this High House. It results in how much money there will be for individual key needs of Croatian peoples and states. We therefore maintain that this work should be approached with due respect and full concentration. Let us object that this House of the High in this term continues any bad practice inherited from the last term. The hand to heart should be said that only in 2000 when the first budget was adopted in the last session of the debate really began in the early morning and ended late into the night. But I've never heard of my short stay in this high house that someone starts a budget debate late in the evening. No one has ever seen that before, because it really is, as someone did last week cynically point out, increasingly transforms Parliament into the Nightmare Stage. Therefore, it is not really necessary to discuss such intensity in such late hours of the night. It is true that there has indeed been a debate in the previous session that could have been before, but this is definitely the most important debate that the Parliament has held in some years at all. We have several hundred amendments most likely ahead of us, each of these amendments is crucial for some part of Croatia, or for some branch of the economy, each of these amendments needs to be really carefully considered, but my people, 84 billion kuna, and we cannot decide how we will spend 84 billion kunas of our taxpayers just so at 4 or 5 in the morning. At that time people know how to shoot because they are completely rebellious and they don't know what's happening to them, and at that time, the Assembly, by you, the gentlemen of the ruling coalition should be constantly thinking about whether or not we're going to accept the budget with all these amendments. For us in HSP, this is really unacceptable, and that is why we believe it and we have established it this morning but also last week, Mr Djapic argued on behalf of our Club that there is really no rush to adopt this budget, there is no reason not to bring this budget in the next week if it is shown that there is a really great interest in the debate and if there is a large number of key amendments. So there's really no reason for this budget debate to be forced tonight more precisely tonight. That is why we ask that the budget debate be postponed for tomorrow, and if it is possible even next week to be in full concentration for this most important debate I repeat in this mandate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2576	Is there anyone else in the name of the clubs? Will Herman, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2577	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, we believe in the Club of Libre that the proposer of this way may be late in the afternoon or early in the evening approach to the amendment debate is actually a proposal marked by rationality. It's possible. But real rationality says something else, it needs first of all to go from justice, the one that needs to work in this Parliament but also to work towards the public. And if the public is the measure of everything then it will be rational that the public has full insight into how tax resources are available, how they are made available to those financial resources that actually fill the citizens. So for this reason, on behalf of the citizens, and let it not sound pretentious, Club LIBRE remains with the proposal, he is not opposition he is from this point of view rational, that the debate, the amendment debate on the state budget for 2004, takes place tomorrow, and of course if it is necessary not to work again in the late evenings, but that if it should be transferred to the next day and that all in all this debate as well as acceptance and rejection of amendments, we do it with full consent between the public and whoever does so as media mediator. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2578	Anyone else? Ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, I have just checked and I need every moment to get a written notice from Croatian Radio, I received it orally at this station, but I need to get it in writing, because I asked for it in a written station about whether Croatian Radio Television will broadcast this session today and I have received an oral notice, now we will get it in a few moments and written, that the 3rd Croatian Radio Television Programme will broadcast directly the entire debate as long as it lasts. However, since this is also the case with the public, so the public will have a chance to monitor this whole debate and thus to obtain the conditions for all those representatives and the clubs of the representatives who intend and want to see the public, to hear that they represent individual views, their amendments, so that this crown of budgetary debate to be before the public is ensured. But since all of the opposition's clubs have their reasons and demand that this debate be moved, I would say the following. To vote on the state budget there are urgent reasons, there are urgent reasons why the government assures me that if the budget is not adopted relatively quickly, all salaries and liabilities made from the state budget will not be paid. So there is no possibility that the budgetary debate will take place next week. But I repeat because, according to all the opposition representatives' clubs, I will not deny this democratic right to remove this objection that these meetings of the Parliament do not take place democratically under my care and in a way that allows everyone to express their views and views, to defend their views on the Budget, the amendments to the Budget will be transferred by tomorrow morning. We're going to the current morning. We're starting with government issues or a single member of the government. The current morning is held at the beginning of each session prior to the first item of the agenda and lasts as a rule for 4 hours. The order goes towards, the order of entry in the book. The MP may ask one question, express dissatisfaction or dissatisfaction, by giving reasons of 1 minute. If unsatisfactory, it may request the government, or the minister, to provide a written reply. During the current afternoon, the representative may not request a word to respond to the alleged or correct incorrect statement set out in the House of Representatives. Either by answering the parliamentary question brought forth by the President or by a member of the Government. The question can't last longer than 2 minutes. The answer to the asked question usually lasts 2 minutes. If it's because of the complexity of the question. The required response may take up to 4 minutes. I am indeed appealing and asking all MPs and MPs as well as members of the Government to stick to the Rules of Procedure and the time foreseen to ask questions and to give answers in order to respect the Rules of Procedure and so that everyone can ask as many questions as possible. I'd like to give my respects to MP Škulic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2580	Thank you. Mr. President-in-Office of the Parliament, Mr. Prime Minister, the Honorable Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. I'm asking Mr. Hebrang. People with disabilities who have been in the process of working therapy and who now have a pension insufficient to live around 300 kuna and who are unable to take care of themselves whether they will get the possibility, the right to a family pension that would give them a somewhat decent life?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2581	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2582	Your Honor, Madam Representative, the problem you cited is complex. I can't give you a calculation right now, so we need to coordinate with the current budget, so I'd like to give you my answer in writing next week.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2583	Thank you very much. In writing, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2584	Thank you very much. Honored representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2585	Thank you, Mr. President. There are more than thousands of destroyed houses in Zadar County awaiting reconstruction in 2004. Prime Minister Kalemeta, Prime Minister Sanader's conclusion of an agreement with the IDS, has pledged not only that, but that all houses will be restored, the SDP, forgive me, has promised that all houses will be restored. And I was approached by a citizen, our prodigal, Mrs. Emilia Ivanusha, who these days expects to move out of a state-owned apartment owned by the MORH, and her apartment, which she also received a decision on the environment because he was killed in the war, was never realized, i.e. That she gets that apartment. However, it is now being manipulated or told that this apartment cannot be fixed at all. So I ask you to tell me, when will the state fulfill its obligation, or find it, to restore that apartment, or find a replacement for it so that this woman will not be found on the street these days? I ask this question not only for a particular case but also for strengthening citizens' knowledge that they have the right to the state, to a power that will serve them, not only to government them, that they would not simply consider themselves too weak to participate in such a struggle, because when the government takes it as an object of its conduct, it still shows efficiency. And when it is necessary, that same state fulfils its obligation, then simply a citizen too weak to participate in that struggle.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2586	Please, colleagues and colleagues allow your colleague to ask a question, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2587	So, therefore, that the citizen would not realize that the government is nothing but and would not consider it as an enemy power, that is, or some simple selfish force that really cares nothing but the realization of its interests and concern.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2588	My colleague, please, well, colleague Anticevic, I beg you, well, thank your colleague, please the minister to respond. Oh, please, colleague. Here you go, colleague Calmeta. Minister Calmeta.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2589	Thank you, Mr. President, certainly we will restore all war-torn houses and this hour we have about 4,000 more houses and 1800 apartments to rebuild. However, we are still receiving requests by assessing that it will be up to the end to rebuild some 5,000 houses, perhaps something more. Our plan is to restore most of these houses and apartments this year, and what remains in the first half of next year is mainly the process we want to complete by mid next year. When it comes to this particular case, I certainly can't know all the individual cases, but since this is one example that's happening in Zadar, I happen to be familiar with it. In fact, it's about the lady living in an apartment that's been destroyed, but that apartment is part of a building that's... and other apartments are not state-owned so that practically repairing the apartment is at least as the ministry's professional services have said, this is a case that has been dragged away since before simply impossible. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But on the bright side, the lady is in the Department of Defense's apartment illegally, and now she's moving out. So the state on the one hand hasn't restored her apartment and on the other hand the state is pushing her out of that apartment again. The situation is in agreement with you, Mrs. Anticevic, the situation is such that the state has to find a solution for this woman. I think the solution can be found through a board of state property management. And in any case, we'll already talk about it on the first committee, I'm going to propose some suggestions on how to solve this woman's problem that really exists. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2590	I'm completely satisfied.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2591	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2592	Thank you. I'm asking the Prime Minister. Mr. President, this question of mine will be a matter of your credibility. You have taken intensive diplomatic action to convince the parliaments of the UK, the Netherlands, Italy, of the need to ratify the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. Tell us a secret, how, what methods with what arguments. Try to convince the three countries' parliaments to ratify an agreement that you personally refused to ratify in your own parliament. Here in the Croatian Parliament. It is known that in the ratification of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement you and the entire HDZ have left the assembly. And left us here to ratify that agreement on our own. How do you think the parliamentarians of these three countries will believe you and how you think you can be trusted in the first place? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2593	Go ahead, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2594	Mr. Trazic, I hope for your joy and joy and pleasure both you and your entire opposition to this government is believed in... And the fact that we weren't in the House at the moment of the vote when the accession and stabilisation agreement was voted, we've talked about it at least a dozen times so far. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] I must correct you, we did not leave the assembly without leaving it, but we left it out of the protests before that because we had referred to criticism to the then state leadership headed by Prime Minister Mr. Ivica Racan, who, like your entire then government, forced for the conclusion of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, so that he could initialize the week before the May 21st 2001 local elections and was initialled a week earlier. The Prime Minister initialled it then. By the information and election and by the order of your government's negotiating team, our joint government but run by the SDPs and partners. And sources and information from Brussels. If we had negotiated for another two months, and we could have, if we hadn't taken narrow party interests and sacrificed daily policy to the quality of the agreement, we could have negotiated an even two months agreement would have been more quality. I stand responsibly behind these words, and then for these reasons, because this agreement was used for day-to-day political purposes, so to initialize before the May 21st local elections and initialled, these are all the historical facts that I'm talking about. And it was initialled seven days ago before May 21st, so I guess the parties to help as we know HDZ won the local elections. This is why, therefore, because of the quality of the protest agreement for daily politics, we left the pay phone. That's what we talked about in Europe, that's what I talked about with all the key partners and I can tell you one thing. With everything that the last government has done well, and she's done well with what she's given the app and what she's done to get it. You're returning the debate now in 2001. I'm prepared to argue with you and the president of the former with anyone. But I'm warning you of one thing. Neither the UK, and now I come to your direct answer, nor Britain nor the Netherlands, will ratify or ratify what you're talking about. It will ratify or not, according to its assessment, Croatia meets the political criteria. Therefore, it seems to me that in your question you are suggesting that perhaps these two countries would not ratify or will not ratify the 2001 accession and stabilisation agreement. I explained why HDZ wasn't at the vote, very clearly behind this. Someone may agree or disagree with my opinions, but it was our azlog because we weren't voting, because we thought we could get a better deal. And secondly, I am convinced that when it comes to political criteria, because this is still far more important to us than our disputes with each other in Croatia. It is far more important for us to show the international community our unity and consensus on this common goal. And I said that both the government and this government were gone if they came and I'm sure they'd come positive avi, whether the UK or the Netherlands would ratify it. Avi can come without their ratifications, I'm sure he'll come.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2595	Comrade Stazic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2596	I would ask you, Mr. Prime Minister, to deliver this argument in writing. Because now you've been making some arguments that we've heard for the first time. Since leaving the assembly, we haven't had a chance to hear them. So maybe in that explanation of yours, we'll find out what the thin deal is and how I can be better than what it is. And the written answer please, and therefore the written answer, please also for this reason, that one opinion, therefore my question and your answer, may be recorded in the annals of the Croatian Parliament. It will show the credibility of the president of a Croatian government.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2597	Thank you very much. Let's move on. Dear Representative Marin Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2598	Dear Mr. President, Prime Minister, colleagues and colleagues, a question for Vice President Mrs. Kosor. In one week, it was announced that you, according to three members of the Croatian Television Programme Council who selected HDZ, requested to resign all of this because HDZ wants to appoint his man as director of Croatian Radio Television. And this would not be possible, according to these allegations, if a new director was now elected under the applicable law, because the competition is under way. I ask you, Mrs Kosor, to answer, is it true that you have dared to put such political pressure on the members of Croatia, in fact, according to members of the Council of the Croatian Radio Television, and as far as it is true, this contributes to reducing the political influence on the work of the Croatian Radio Television, which you and your party have declared to advocate many times.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2599	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Your Honor, sir, I really thank you very much for this matter. If we had made a deal like we didn't, I believe everyone believes that, we couldn't have made a better deal. So give me a real chance because I will, of course, deny it and send it to that weekly. I here before the Croatian Parliament declare to all of you on your parliamentary question, that is the most generous lie, so it is a lie. I've never talked to anyone in the Programme Council, not that I haven't been pressured, but since the moment I was in the government, I haven't talked to anyone except Mr. Levak on TV and in a phone conversation with a member of the Council on the eve of their competitions where I was only asked if it makes sense, since the government is preparing a new law and I answered that you're doing your job, the government is doing its job. So, never at any time would I have thought of anyone, so that's really the most generous lie. And I just to rule out the possible policy impact we are going to change the Law on Croatian Radio Television, because as you know, the Council of Croatian Radio Television numbers 11 members, but now it is in a completely illogical situation that the 11th member does not exist, so the Council acts as a body with 10 members. There is no clearly defined mechanism in the law for this 11th member to be elected now and because, as you know in the previous session, when the Law on Croatian Radio Television was passed, we are now changing those provisions. So let me conclude one more time. Dear Mr. Representative, I've never put pressure on anyone, and that would never have occurred to me, not only since I was in the government, but also when I was a parliamentary representative. Thank you very much for asking.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2600	Thank you. Here's a colleague's word.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2601	Madam Vice-President, thank you very much for your explanation, and here you have told the Croatian public that you have not put political pressure on the Croatian Radio and Television Programme Council, which I hope means that the three members selected by HDZ will not resign, but I would like to tell you that this is an Ethics Commission chosen by the Croatian Parliament to work neatly even if one member is missing, so I do not see any reason why even the Croatian Television Board can't work, let alone one member, there is a competition to fill that member.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2602	A colleague can express satisfaction or dissatisfaction with the fact that he... As counterpart Anticevic expressed satisfaction, here we go. Honorable representative of Gordana Sobol.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2603	Mr. President, gentlemen of the government, colleagues and colleagues. I'm giving my question to the Prime Minister. My question today actually refers to a new affair that has been followed by your government since the beginning and is being carried out primarily through newspaper columns these days, and I am afraid of the re-involvement of politics and giving political opinions under the cover of legal instructions. In particular, it is about the Law on the Rights of Representatives, which in certain cases is placed above international contracts and because a respected colleague of ours and Vice-President of the Assembly Mr Bebic complained that he did not have the same rights as the representatives who had done his entire life here in Croatia, and imagine, that the Ministry of Economy and the Croatian Ministry of Peace Insurance had brought instructions that were diametrically contrary to that interpretation which was similar to those of three years ago, and thus the representatives, the MPs, but also the other officials who had achieved part of their working life in the republics of the other former Yugoslav state, I would say in the first order, i.e. about 26 thousand citizens who made pensions under that law. I'm asking the question. When can you expect your government to pass any amendments to the law that will put about 26 thousand other citizens in the same position as now parliamentary representatives, or government officials, and if your government has no intention of doing so, when and what measures will you take against those responsible in the Ministry of Economy and the Croatian Pension Insurance Office, who in this way create different categories of citizens?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2604	Thank you very much. I ask the President of your or our government, the Prime Minister, to answer this question.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2605	Thank you, Mr. President. Thank you, Madam Representative Sobol. Since you've given a grade in your question that I disagree with, I'll answer it first. Of course I don't agree with the assessment you've given on the affair. This government is characterized by something that the previous governments didn't characterise, that's my answer to the affairs, which is that if we find out that we've made a mistake and we're correcting it. It would be completely opposite and unacceptable for me to stay in it. So if we made a mistake somewhere like we did in the case, you're probably thinking about assistants. So we're doing as much as we think and we think she's okay. Public change studies show that the mood in the public is contrary to your assessment and I am delighted. And when it comes to this case, let me call you, let us try to solve this problem with us. I'm not familiar with it, and I can't answer it specifically right now, I'm going to give you a written answer, but I'm asking you to get involved together to try to solve this problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2606	... I'm not happy because I didn't get the answer to the question. [[Conversation subsequently turned on.]] I, therefore, ask a written explanation of this more about international contracts and the more the legal profession went into signing a petition, because the position is to give political opinions rather than legal instructions.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2607	Dear representative Marija Lugaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2608	Your Honor, Mr. President, the government's present representatives. I have a question for a representative of the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports. Unfortunately, Minister Primorac is not here again. Namely, Minister Primorac was fenced yesterday by an outrageous scandal of forcing high school students to watch the film "Nomi Shriek", which explicitly shows the totally unacceptable content of artificially induced abortion. The profession has claimed that seeing this degutangnog of the hurricane of experience certainly leaves lasting consequences on the psyche of young people exposed to such visual violence or perhaps more precisely to mental abuse. Yesterday, Minister Primorac recommended that creditors refrain from showing the war until new programmes were adopted. I don't think that's enough, ultimately and inappropriate, because the minister's recommendation can, but it doesn't have to be respected. So I ask, when will the minister make a decision to change the teaching plan and the religion programme in primary and secondary schools to re-repeat the most difficult form of psychological child abuse and ban its presentation at school. I am also interested in the fact that the minister is expected to do more than build, because concrete and proportionate measures have to be taken, which he has taken to ensure that new plans and programmes are adopted, would not repeat the presentation of the film mentioned, and what measures have been taken against the guidance counselor at the Institute of Education, which sees nothing wrong and anything controversial in watching this degutant war. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2609	Thank you, Secretary of State Nevio Šetić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2610	I would like to say that the movie that was screened has also caused our attention and the minister immediately made the measures not to repeat such things because to the least extent for such a film or something has not been prepared. I want to say what was immediately done, it is recommended that this film is not shown and Minister Primorac and the Ministry has educated one expert team composed of doctors, theologians and psychologists and coordinator of the programme is Mr. Željer Janjic, State Secretary and in the shortest time, that means 3 days we will get an analysis and evaluation of that film. In any case, when it comes to school programmes and content, it needs to be very careful and we have warned and we will take all measures so that such things are not repeated and that the area is arranged.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2611	Thank you and Deputy Prime Minister Mrs. Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2612	Thank you very much, Mr. President, I would just like to add the response of Mr. Secretary of State to the fact, that is, our decision to extend this initiative by Minister Primorac to the coordination for social activities and human rights that has just been proposed today by a programme against violence among young people, young people, and children, respectively, and coordination will take a look at the film at the next meeting and bring concrete proposals that will certainly be proposed by the Government.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2613	Thank you. Here you go, Comrade Lugaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2614	In fact, I am extremely dissatisfied with the responsible because I have heard nothing more from the government's representatives than what I have said in my question. I am interested in what has been done, not futur and what is going to be done, but what has taken place right now in the third school class of the morning direction of some believer or believer at this very moment is not showing this film, and in that sense I am asking for an additional written answer and concrete activities not future I, or others will, we will, will, etc. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2615	Thank you very much. Honorable representative Maria Byte.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2616	Mr. President, Mr. President of the Croatian Government, ladies and gentlemen. I ask the question to the representative of the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports. I ask the question because of Požega High School, which is blocked due to ten executions and 22 judicial convictions, as regards all secondary schools in the Republic of Croatia. In 2001, the government signed a collective agreement with trade unions that dropped the provision that a gift for children, Christmases and regressions would be paid if funds in the budget were provided for that purpose. Regres isn't paid. When the complaints of employees were launched, the Ministry of Education did not react, instead of reaching an agreement, it was almost all high school employees sued the employer or school and received a verdict in their favour. Namely, it is 5 to 7 thousand kuna per employee of the principal, plus interest, plus court costs, the payment of claims goes through court charges. In the light of the fact that it is the debt and obligation of the Croatian Government in 2002, I am asking whether the payment of these tasks will be provided with the necessary resources or whether there is a possibility that the necessary amount will be paid to schools on the basis of the judgments passed, and before the executive procedure because schools that do not have their own resources, I mean vocational or high school, can be in a blockade for months which makes their work difficult. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2617	Thank you. State Secretary Želimir Janjic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2618	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, honourable MPs. Yeah, this is the problem from 2001 when high school employees were entitled to an annex to the collective labor contract. It is, in fact, the right to pay off the regress, but the payment of the regression has not occurred and this is the problem facing this Ministry immediately at the beginning of the term of office and of course we are familiar with all the cases where the blockades occur. I have to start by saying that in this proposal of the state budget to secure the funds at the position of the Ministry of Finance from that position will be paid a regress that we can share I would say in three categories. One case is the performance you mentioned, and we will try to pay off those funds as soon as possible to unblock the accounts of the schools that have been blocked, the other part concerns all those employees who have signed the statement that Minister Strugar sent at the time, and those statements refer to all those employees who have not filed the lawsuit, we will try to pay it as soon as possible, such as just over 5,000 and 400, out of the 20,000 that we have in the system. Unfortunately, we will not be able to respect the deadline set out in the statement that it will be until the end of February for the simple reason that the budget itself has not yet been set in the Croatian Parliament. But we'll try not to be too long. And third, we are talking to the union, or perhaps more precisely, to speak to an authorised representative in order to come to a kind of agreement for all those whose court proceedings are pending in order to avoid any twisting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2619	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2620	Thank you very much, Mr. President, I am pleased with the answer as much as I can be because the goal is not to have blockages in schools and that schools can work normally and not that their work should be disabled, but I think that at the time when it happened, it should have been discussed that there was no interest and everything else in the system in which it should not have happened because these funds could have been channeled into something else in schools. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2621	Thank you. Dear Representative Željko Pavlic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2622	Mr. President, I have a question for Mr. Hebrang's health minister. On January 28th, I referred to the ministry a question about the future of the construction of the county hospital in Čakovec. I received an answer that the realization of this project will begin in 2003. However, looking at the draft budget of this new one for 2004 which we received two days ago, I have to ask the same question because only 740 thousand kunas were provided in that budget, so only symbolic funds, instead of 4 million and 850 thousand kunas, as foreseen by the plan of financing the construction of the polyclinic... program of the county hospital Čakovec... It is clear, therefore, that the reduced resources cannot be financed by ongoing work at the hospital, so once again I ask the question of what will be done with the addition of the county hospital, Čakovec, since the 2004 budget does not provide the funds provided. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2623	Minister Hebrang, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2624	Thank you very much. The answer is a little more complex because it is some legal problems about this agreement, namely, the Ministry of Health can only invest in hospitals owned by the State and the County Hospital under the Health Insurance Act and the Health Protection Act if they are in the field of special public care, which is not the case here and in the case of natural disasters which is not the case here. So during our plans we tried to bring all the agreements in line with the law not to extend the illegal action, and in this context we can discuss a new agreement in which the Ministry of Health would have to find a legal foothold to participate. As for the financial resources that can be channelled under the law in the construction of the Čakovec hospital, these are dislocated funds that go towards the county and I am sure that we can find an agreement and agreement based on the law under these funds.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2625	Here you go, fellow Pavlic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2626	I have to say, I'm really not happy with this answer. I did not expect it to be, negative, because, as is known, an agreement was concluded between the ministry and the county, concluded and signed, and then there were no objections that it was made by law. I also think that he was not made by law, and this calls into question the continuation of the construction of the county hospital in Čakovec, which I do not think should happen at all. Hwa.a.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2627	Thank you. Honorable representative William Herman.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2628	Mr. Prime Minister, colleagues and colleagues. On 27 January, I sent a proposal to the prime minister to come to Slavonia and Baranja and try to discuss some important Slavonian-Baranja projects there. Here it is, and then it was said within about 30 days, it was past that time. I can imagine that there have been a lot of commitments, it has been traveling, it has been working on everything that means improving Croatia's position in the face of joining the European Union, but there remains an observation that here these 30 days have gone and that the same Slavonian-Baranja projects are still standing, Agrobanka, Corridor PC, the development of the University, irrigation and, in the next 30 days, nothing will change unless we try to agree that, as part of this Budget, events of importance, decisive things for the development of Slavonia and Baranja, and the connection with these projects. By the way, and as a question, can we create an atmosphere, and I don't doubt that you're going to come in which there will be no politicization and a framework that Branimir Glavas often knows how to do when it's not really discussing the essence of things, but it goes somewhere on the periphery and forgets what I really think should be the motive for your arrival. So the motive of your arrival is to discuss with experts and discuss with MPs. There should be a debate about Agrobanks, about Corridor PC, irrigation and the development of the University. Thank you very much, Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2629	Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2630	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Representative, I promised your question and said that we would come and hold a session of the government in Osijek, and I am standing there, and that we would discuss these great projects that you have stated, and I am standing there. I must say that they are in, in the meantime, formed county power. That's what we were waiting for, we didn't want to come without so long as it wasn't still after the elections held on January 18th until the county government was formed. In the meantime, I also received a call from the Mayor of Bubal, but without that call we decided in the Government that the next cabinet session to be held outside Zagreb will be held in Osijek. She'll probably be somewhere in the first half of March. So in the next two, two and a half weeks. Until then, we will prepare and discuss these crucial major projects that are important for Slavonia; irrigation, PC corridor, university, everything you've been saying. That's what the promise stands for. It will be a week, two later than we planned, but also for objective reasons, including the formation of a new County headship.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2631	I'm a colleague of Herman's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2632	Mr. Prime Minister, there will be only one circumstance left, and this is about my pleasure or dissatisfaction, unsettled. We will bring a budget, and in that sense we will have important constraints when we discuss the projects that you have now spoken of. So those 30 days had a rational meaning that we could, along with the rest of this framework called the Budget, fill out our discussions. So I can't say I'm either satisfied or dissatisfied but I just think it's a waste of time.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2633	Thank you very much. Honorable representative Lucia Chikesh.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2634	I refer my question to the respected minister of the family, defenders and intergenerational solidarity of Mrs. Jadranki Kosor. In the total number of parents and families with children in Croatia, the share of single parents is more than 20%, which means almost every fifth family with children. More than 40% of divorced parents do not receive alimony, and when it comes to single mothers or children from the extramarital community, more than 60% do not receive cash compensation. All these single-parent families live on the edge of poverty. My question is, will the government, in the near future, set up a Child Support Fund? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2635	Deputy Prime Minister Mrs. Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2636	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Madam MPs, yes. In the 2004 Budget, the government has already provided for one such item in the positions of the Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity, which we believe will grow into a real alimony fund by next year. For the first time, we have been thinking clearly about this big problem that you are talking about in the context of the budget for this year. So I can decode your question and answer it like this. Since some of the jobs between the current Ministry of Health and Social Welfare and the Ministry of Family Affairs, defenders and intergenerational solidarity will be separated by October 1st when certain things such as you know go to courts, so the resolution of these things goes to courts, from that moment on, we also predicted in the Ministry of the Family when these important, sensitive family matters are under the authority of this Ministry, to establish this alimony fund. We have projected the initial funds of 20 million kunas, but we have various good plans that we will soon present to the public as possible and in other ways, not only through the budget to help strengthen this fund by next year. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2637	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2638	Thank you. Dear Representative Vladimir Kurecic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2639	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. President and members of the Croatian Government, colleagues and colleagues. My representative question concerns the current, better said the acute situation in Croatian agriculture and with it I want to draw attention to the Croatian public and above all to the fact that there has been no such difficult situation in the country and agriculture. Namely, as the end of February in the part of the year when the preparations for the spring seed should have been practically finished after the quality autumn seed and all agrotechnical measures were previously carried out, as appropriate, in part of the year. Of all that, nothing. The autumn seed was a “de facto” alibi of crops with a very low level of investment, and I fear that now in spring it will be even worse and that more unprocessed surfaces will remain after sowing. This is due to the fact that the Croatian village is mostly without a beaten kuna, resulting from an experiment called agricultural reform and previously irresponsible policy towards the village and agriculture, which has led to a situation where the Ministry of Agriculture has owed more than 800 million kuna, which has been dragging since last spring seed. In fact, the 800 million kuna debt of the last coalition government belongs to farmers in the form of incentives that help the farmer have such cost-effectiveness of production, i.e. to survive and to...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2640	My colleague Kurecic, ask a question, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2641	...a farmer's bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2642	Ask a question.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2643	Of these 800 million kunas, 547 million kunas are debts for wartime, and 253 million kuna for livestock production. Under these terms of debt and everything else that has happened to Croatia, agriculture will be very difficult to implement.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2644	Comrade Kurecic, please ask a question.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2645	I'm asking the question of the Minister of Agriculture, Mr. Peter Cobankovic. Is the Ministry of Agriculture aware of the weight of the situation in which the Croatian village is located and what is the short-term and long-term intention of taking action to alleviate the current situation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2646	Thank you very much. Minister Cobankovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2647	Thank you, Mr. President, dear colleague. I can really tell you that the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy is a very conscious current situation in which Croatian agriculture is located. And I could very well agree with your finding that this is one of the most difficult periods in agriculture at all. So I'm making some efforts to stabilize this situation in some way, and I told one of the government's sessions that I feel a little like a fireman. Because I have to keep bringing some measures that go in, which are in the function of shutting down certain fires. And we are therefore making an extremely big effort to make the most of the resources available. The situation is well known that we started to pay off incentives based on the culture of spring seed in 2003. And I'm here to join and appeal to the MPs precisely for these reasons to be expedient and to bring the budget as soon as possible. Because unfortunately, in temporary financing, we have limited financial resources. And we won't be able to track the dynamic payment of incentives, because simply in temporary financing is 240 million kuna, something we managed to do with internal redistributions from other items of the ministry, and here's what would currently be the biggest aid to the Ministry of Agriculture, and also to the Croatian village as soon as possible, so that we can fully settle the debt on the basis of the spring seed, settle the debt based on incentives related to livestock, because there is another hundred million and basically the debt for milk.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2648	Thank you. Dear Representative Zivko Nenadić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2649	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, colleagues and colleagues. I'm referring the question to the Minister of Finance, Mr. Shucker. I trust you, Mr. Minister, are now available to you all relevant information, so I'm asking. Was the sale of Rijeka Bank a political or economic category? I mean, something's bothering me. How is it that we all know that the Germans have not quite given up ownership for one euro, or about 8 kuna, and that two years earlier, they paid 327 million kuna for the same bank? Well, if that top secret can see the light of day, I'd love to, and I believe the others. And if you don't have the information in your hand, you might as well have a written answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2650	Thank you. Minister Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2651	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Representative, this topic was very current in the previous session, several times it was discussed, but in the end neither the Croatian public nor this high house received an answer that really happened at the Rijeka Bank. So in order not to go that way, I will try to collect information and give you a written answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2652	Thank you very much, all right.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2653	Thank you. Honorable representative Anton Perusko.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2654	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Prime Minister of Croatia, gentlemen of the government, colleagues and colleagues. I'm speaking to the Minister of Health and Social Services. Namely, in the last two months, i.e. In time since the formation of the parliamentary majority, there have been several examples of public advances that have brought unrest among the socially most vulnerable categories of our citizens, among the pensioners and those with the lowest incomes. Let's just remember the announcement of the abolition of the existing form of supplementary health insurance. The last pearl statement about running a drug charge. As former HZZO Director Ljubica Djukanovic was removed because of alleged incompetence, I ask you, Mr. Minister, what do you think you do about the current HZZO director appointed by the new government, who, by his irresponsible statements and by not knowing the problem, first led you to deny him, and even worse upset him and embittered the most vulnerable part of the population, and these are undoubtedly pensioners among whom a large number of disreputed anti-fascist fighters and other citizens, who no longer trust and fear that drug charges will still be.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2655	Minister Hebrang, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2656	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Mr. Representative, my statement on the suspension of the supplementary insurance is that the whole transferred should not be denied and complemented. Additional insurance as it is now unfounded under the law, and I said that we would end it the way it is now, but with the social level of rights it guarantees. So I repeat that sentence once again if it had been passed on like this, there would have been no addition. As for Dr. Bergman, director of the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance, he was reckless, but not because he said what he said, but because he accepted the first day, the first day of the press conference, so he had no insights yet, he was surprised, found out, didn't know at all and expected to come to the hall with many journalists and he couldn't manage. I denied his statement the same day, and he apologized the next day, and I think it's correct to apologize if a man makes a mistake. The guarantee that the social rights of pensioners will be respected in all the decisions of the HZZO is just a contract with a party of Croatian pensioners who participate in the creation of all our decisions and decisions of HZZO.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2657	Thank you, Mr. Minister. I accept, I'm satisfied with the explanation, I accept your explanation and even more reason for the Prime Minister who said this government is wrong, but is willing to correct and I believe that this error is finally corrected.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2658	Thank you very much. Honorable representative Danira Bilic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2659	Dear Mr. President of the Parliament, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen. I'm giving the question to Minister Bozidar Calmeta. I wonder if this government will limit the sale of Croatian territory? There are currently more than 10 islands on sale, and does the government have mechanisms ready to prevent illegal construction and the acquisition of maritime goods?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2660	Minister Calmeta.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2661	Thank you. So this is something that happened today and yesterday, and it's going to be current and it's going to be about selling islands, because I'd say big islands aren't endangered, because it's impossible to sell a big island because of the property situation on it, but when it comes to small islands, then they're really in this way that we're looking at threatened. But before that, I have to say that these little islands can't be sold entirely because we all know that the part that's maritime good is that it can always and only be owned by the state. But we at the ministry are doing one proposal to record all of these islands and we are doing one proposal that we will refer to the government, the government will clearly discuss and take its position but our proposal in the ministry will be that all these islands are proposed or that one amendment of the Island Law be made, that it be incorporated into the Island Act where a potential seller will be obliged to offer all these islands first for sale to the state. I don't know if I've answered everything, I haven't heard it seems to me the last question if there's still one.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2662	Thank you very much. There will be an additional question from the Prime Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2663	Thank you, Mr. President! I want to make it very clear here, and I thank Representative Bilic for this question. This is a question that is of interest to the entire Croatian public. Minister Calmeta said something about it. I want to make it very clear not to consider the sale of Croatian islands. We will find a way and agree and come to the Parliament, we will agree which is the best way to comply with and, of course, with other democratic standards of Europe which also has similar cases. You have the fact that in one of the leading European countries you can, for example, own the property but not the land you get in the concession. Therefore, it is about different possible solutions. What should be prevented would be the sale of Croatian islands, the Croatian coast. Of course we have to stay open and for solutions that some stranger can buy in Croatia real estate, that has been the case so far and will be the future. But this is a very important issue on which the government is working both in accordance with the national development programme of the island, which was adopted back in 1998, 1999, as well as the Island Law, this issue will be harmonised. I ask all those who and MPs who have proposals in this context to give us instructions for while we work because already one working group at the Ministry of Minister Kalmeta but also in the Government is working on this solution.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2664	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2665	Thank you. Dear representative Nevenka Majdenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2666	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable President of the Croatian Government, ladies and gentlemen! I refer the question to the vice-presidents of the government and the minister of the family, defenders and intergenerational solidarity. Madam Minister, it is known that the defenders of the Homeland War in order to resolve the housing issue bought apartments on loan from the Ministry of Defence, but we are witnessing that these apartments are often extremely poorly built, poor quality and with significant shortcomings. My question is next. What will the Government do about it, or will it determine the causes and responsibilities of those responsible for such poorly executed construction and craft work on residential buildings and apartments for Croatian defenders?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2667	Here you go, Vice President!
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2668	Thank you very much, Mr. President! Your Honor, Madam Representative! That's exactly what you're saying. Namely, after we entered the ministries and the Ministry of Croatian Defence and the Ministry of Civil Engineering, which was headed by Ms. Matulović-Dropulić, we have established numerous gaps in the apartments that were built for the Croatian defenders. It is known that they buy apartments on loans like you said, many are very unhappy. I have dozens and dozens of calls, for example, from Rijeka where 60 families of Croatian defenders call. I believe I'll be able to see it soon. So they're calling to see for myself what quality these apartments are. We also have examples in Zagreb of uninhabited apartments because it is simply impossible to enter such apartments. It's about apartments in which, say, half the room lacks parking, doors are not allowed to be closed, windows are not allowed to be closed, tiles are missing, half the tiles are, for example, on balconies or the loggia are simply gone, installations are very badly performed, leaks. So one image almost unimaginable. That's why we agreed between these two ministries, of course, to deal with these apartments and to list everything we've found. Of course, this will be tried as soon as possible, but we also made a decision in the last government that we would allow the Croatian defenders who are buying apartments on loan to enter apartments, to rent them these apartments until they are creditworthy. And I also believe that you are aware that the government seems to me at the previous session also made a decision to lower the price of apartments that are now 700 euros per square metre for Croatian defenders who buy it on loan. So we reduce that price by 30% in areas of special state concern or in small places. So, I think we've done everything we can to make housing care as much as possible. We will certainly try to ensure that the apartments that are to be built this year are the apartments that all those who buy them deserve, so Croatian defenders and all others who buy them on the market. Therefore, I believe that this situation will improve significantly. And we've committed to solving the housing issue of 100% of people with disabilities this year. So there are 20 more of them, and this year they will get homes, or what is legally theirs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2669	Thank you. Dear representative Nevenka Majdenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2670	Thank you. I'm happy with the answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2671	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, two notices. The chairman of the Committee for Local and Regional Self-Government, Mr Zvonimir Mršić, called a committee meeting today at 14:00 in Hall 133/I. and the chairman of the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security Mr. Ivan Jarnjak session of his committee at 13.30 in room 84. According to our well-used practice, we'll take a break of 20 minutes and then proceed with the current morning. We're going back to work. The question is Frano Matušić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2673	Mr. President-in-Office of the Parliament, Mr. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers, colleagues and colleagues. I'm referring the question to the Minister of Finance, Mr. Ivan Shuker. The issue of Dubrovnik's Bank is now being updated in Dubrovnik again these days. But right away I want to point out that it's not about the bank's business, because the bank is operating stablely and is doing business with profits, which I believe will continue in the future. But what interests the Dubrovnik public is, in fact, who is the new owner of the bank because information has been published in the media that the bank sold to a company registered in the Cayman Islands with only one employee. The future contract was also declared to be a business secret bank employee, i.e. the union is not familiar with the facts relating to the employees themselves and in the meantime there has already been a dismissal of a significant number of employees, so he would ask if he still needs to remain a business secret then at least that those parts of the contract are being made known to the union in order to know how many more employees will be fired. And also in the media it was announced that the bank was sold for cca. In the 180th million kuna, at the same time, the state was, on the basis of the hotel's service which it had excluded, in debt to the same bank by the beginning of 2005, to pay 320 million kuna. Therefore, these facts indicate that it is obviously not the cleanest business, so in order not to conclude prematurely I ask you to answer in writing who is actually the new owner of the Dubrovnik Bank and whether there are elements in this contract that would indicate that a harmful contract has been concluded by the former owner or state.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2674	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2675	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Representative, given that this is a very complex subject, since it is also about the information that needs to be checked and the confidentiality of that contract should be seen, you will receive a written reply from the ministry by the next session.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2676	Thank you. Dear representative, Ruža Lelic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2677	Ministers, colleagues and colleagues. I will welcome the question of the Minister of Agriculture and Water Economy, Mr. Peter Cobankovic. Mr. Minister, the fact is, about a billion and 200 million were imported last year. We also remember the image of throwing eco food, potatoes, and now manufacturers have great difficulty selling pigs and junadas. You announced an intervention ransom. But there are already difficulties in the field. Because the redeemers would like to benefit themselves from that. So I'm asking you, Mr. Minister, if you're going to conduct an intervention ransom and how you're going to protect the manufacturer in order to suffer minor damage. Because we can't even talk about money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2678	Minister Cobankovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2679	Thank you very much, Mr. President, thank you very much, Madam Representative, and I speak responsibly that we will have an intervention ransom. That there has been an intervening buy-in contest and that we are now under contract with representatives of the local industry who have applied for the competition. I can also announce here that we have found that there is a significantly greater number of heroes than the one we predicted in the first one, I would say an intervention and subsidized ransom. And according to this, today we're going to put forward a proposal at the government's session to allow us an additional intervention buy-in for the hero. Surely I can say that all the market surplus pigs will be picked up, and also after this, I would say the first and second intervention ransom that will be resolved and the excess of drowned heroes. I only appeal for a little, a little patience. I know that none of the breeders are at present easy because of the high price of food. But unfortunately, I can't, and the Ministry can't take on that doing something without valid tenders, without valid contracts, we have to comply with the law of the envisaged procedure, and that's the basic reason why we haven't yet started the intervention buyout.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2680	Comrades, get on with it.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2681	... And your workers are, is, it's included, that you're going to make a final effort to really do this. [[Specially enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2682	Thank you, well-respected representative Dujomir Marasovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2683	Mr. President-in-Office of the Parliament, Mr. President-in-Office of the Croatian Government and Mr. Ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs. I will refer my question to Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Government and Minister of Health Andrija Hembrang. We meet with large inheritance debts in Croatian health care. One large hospital in Dalmatia last paid for the drugs 14 years ago, the second one before 18, and the third one 24 months ago. It is known that because of these large inherited debts in the health care of the wholesalerry, the prosecution blocked the hospital accounts and some counties. Dear Mr. Minister, my question is: what you have done and what you are doing to prevent the collapse of health care, i.e. the discontinuation of the delivery of medicines, hospitals and homes of health.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2684	Dear Mr. Representative, the total inherited health debt of 7 billion and 300 million kuna is due to hospitals being blocked in their accounts by over 40 requests for a blockade has been courted and several counties due to the debt of county health institutions. What have we done? We first filmed the situation so that we knew what we were up against and what we were going to do to resuscitate the system. Then we had a conversation with the association of large-scale drugs that, therefore, filed lawsuits against the court for, with a motion to block hospital accounts. We've been negotiating with them for about 14-20 days and we've managed to reach a fire-fighting agreement, I say fire-fighting because he's just solving a temporary fire that's threatening. This agreement consists of an emergency payment of 523 million kunas of Croatian hospitals' obligations, and this is the idea that the budget that is scheduled for the Ministry of Finance to pay, therefore, outside of the health budget, and thus to be paid directly by wholesalers and then bills are beaten with hospitals that are due. It's just one step. The second step is to renegotiate a large debt of €2.5 billion from the Croatian Health Insurance Institute's debt to banks. The debt reprogramme and this budget also provides for it, depends on the survival of the health care system in financial terms. And finally, the third thing we've taken is that the wholesalers have withdrawn their lawsuits temporarily until these 523 million debts were charged and not charged and that we've developed a programme of financial stability of the health system by the end of the year. I think we've now removed the acute danger of stopping the delivery of drugs and this long-term we'll be following the adoption of the budget that's ahead of you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2685	I am pleased with the answer, thank you, Mr. Minister, for making great efforts to overcome this difficult situation.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2686	Thank you. Dear Representative Niko Rebic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2687	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, members of the government, I'd like to refer the matter to the Minister of Interior. Not long after taking over power on January 3rd, former MUPA minister, on orders from his party, lifted dozens of police stations. In this act, a large number of citizens and their assets remain unsure of what citizens in other major cities have, although they pay taxes neatly. It was done in an inappropriate manner without dialogue, without public debate, and suddenly. And what's even worse without some professional analysis simply by the minister's decision. The consequences are terrible from the uncertainty of citizens and property, drugging young people on the streets of towns without police supervision. An accident of the influence of alcohol and so on and so on. The question of the Minister of the Interior is: Whether citizens in these areas have the same security rights as other citizens in Croatia. And when finally they will, when and if they will finally change something, they will finally come back. If we know that there are cops in town, I have to wonder what neighborhood my fellow citizens live in if the nearest cop is 40 km away. This is what I find unsustainable and I ask the Ministers to try to answer me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2688	Minister Mlinaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2689	Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor, Mr. Representative. This is not the only case you're talking about your end, we have from some parts of Croatia similar situation. Let's say that the poiling station in Maria Bistrica has been abolished where about a million and a half pilgrims pass through Maria Bistrica a year and where the safety of citizens has been significantly reduced by the abolition of the police station. We will consider all these complaints all of these examples and, within the limits of our ability, re-establish these police stations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2690	Representative Rebic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2691	Mr. Minister correctly but I think we should get an actual analysis of the situation as soon as possible and see where it should be done. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2692	Dear Representative Jagoda Maja Martincevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2693	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Minister. I ask the question of the Minister of Culture to Mr. Bozi Bishop. Given the media noise recently raised about the appointment of a commission to amend the law on Croatian radio television, please answer me. By which criteria the members of this committee, Ms Vesna Alaburic and Mr Ivan Zvonimir Čičak, were appointed to this commission. These are indeed in conflict of interest, given their co-operation with Europa Press holding. I think it is very important to explain to the public what is the matter, given the importance of this law and its further functioning, and in the interest of both the media and all the ratings, respectively, to the public. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2694	Minister Bishop, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2695	Thank you, Mr. President, Your Honor, Your Honor. By naming a three-member working group to prepare the text of the law on Croatian radio television, I see that there have been various comments in the public media in this working group by naming Mr. Čička and Mrs. Alaburic. I would like to say that we have chosen Mr. Chicka by the criteria that he had on the existing law the most objections and the same objections that the OSCOe had. Since we are also bound by the same opinion of the OSC, I will explain this because the debate is being prepared for this text, it is still being done. Then we felt it was good that a man who deals with the media, whose subject is close and who has worked so hard on this existing law with his remarks that he is equally appointed to this task force. The second Mrs. Alaburic was appointed because she is a recognised international expert in media legislation, namely, OSCe also appoints experts who will discuss our proposal tomorrow and Friday. Mrs Alaburic is also one of the members who then discusses and advises in other countries when it comes to media laws. That's one reason, I don't think there was any conflict intersede there. Because it is only the working text, but then we invited other media representatives, representatives of the Assembly Media Committee, representatives of the HRT society of journalists, trade unions of the press, the Helsinki Committee who joined the working group and asked them to make their remarks. Or your suggestions, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2696	I appreciate it.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2697	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Ivan Drmic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2698	President-in-Office of the Parliament, Prime Minister, Mr Minister, fellow MPs. I'd like to ask Prime Minister Sanader one question. In the media there have been speculation these days that in the event of financing the shipyard Viktor Lenac will conduct certain investigations. We have all witnessed that in the past four years, former government ministers have treated the taxpayers' money very badly, and that they pump him up and put him into the company Viktor Lenac without any economic justification, as a bottomless well. I wonder if it's true that a certain investigation will be carried out and I'm interested in whether today's government has some information where these money's finished because I personally don't believe they went out for workers' salaries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2699	Mr. Prime Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2700	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Representative, it is likely that these speculations that are being read in the newspapers these days and the thoughts of certain people refer to an initiative that came from Rijeka from one respected professor in Zagreb to establish an investigative commission in the Parliament. This is therefore not in the government's jurisdiction, and I can say that if the Parliament decides to conduct an investigative committee, we will introduce an investigative commission in the case of financing Victor Lenco and where all that money has gone. That the government will provide all the necessary information, and otherwise the finance minister, the economy minister and others have the task not only of this case but also of all other similar cases, and of the state audit to see everything that is involved. But I repeat once again, we want to see if the Parliament does not do so beyond our decision, if the Parliament accepts the fight initiative that came from Rijeka to establish an investigative commission we will give and be available with all the necessary information. Because we, like everyone else, are interested, of course if taxpayers' money is spent in this way on projects that were known in advance to be doomed to fail to investigate why it was done. On the other hand, I would also like to say that the workers of the “Vicor Lenac” Shipyard are entitled not to be punished for failures of management, administration or others. That's what we want to strictly separate. The workers and their fate are shared and they need to be stopped and we need to see how this case will be solved, because now it is entering some phase of resolution. But I repeat, if there is an investigative commission, the government will stand by with all its resources.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2701	Dear Representative Miroslav Rosic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2702	Thank you very much. Mr. Prime Minister, my question is very brief and I hope so. Did you cancel the arrest award, or information that would lead to the arrest of General Ante Gotovina, and if not, when will you do so? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2703	We didn't cancel that award. We'll consider it. Our obligation remains to co-operate with the International Criminal Court in The Hague and any citizen of the Republic of Croatia must respect the Constitutional Law on Cooperation with the International Criminal Court in The Hague, which referred to anyone, you, me or anyone else.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2704	A colleague of Rosic's.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2705	I absolutely agree with you, Mr. Prime Minister, but this is our obligation without reward. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2706	Dear Representative Vladimir Šišljagic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2707	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, presidents and members of the Croatian Government, colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian government in the former assembly has adopted a pay-out regulation for public service employees in accordance with the add-on of two basic contracts. This Regulation also applies to health care activities. This has led to a 4.5% increase in salary for healthcare professionals since 1 January 2004. My question was addressed to the Minister of Health, Mr. Andrija Hebrang. Why has the health activity not increased the pay base as other budget users in accordance with the addition of two basic contracts and will this increase be paid retrogradely, since 1 January of this year? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2708	Thank you. Minister Hebrang, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2709	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Representative, in our health care, salaries are not paid directly from the state budget, but from the funds of the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance, which provides funds based on an account for the services provided to healthcare institutions and directors are paid afterwards and paid according to the rules. Why didn't there be a payment? It did not come because the decision of the last government was made to increase by 4.3% after the provisional budget was adopted so that these funds do not exist in the provisional budget and we could not pay the institutions on the basis of the current budget of the funds, but rather foresaw them in the budget that is on your benches today, by including retrograde payment for the first quarter of this year. So we'll recommend to HZZO to make a decision to increase the salary coefficient in which it will be calculated for the first three months. We will do this because just this kind of salary increase was an integral part of our pre-election programme and this government will implement this programme until the end, and as our programme has been “proved” and brought to the last government after the adoption of the provisional budget, I leave it to your imagination, we will make up for it.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2710	Representative Šišljagić please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2711	I'm happy with the answer. I thank you personally and on behalf of the healthcare professionals.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2712	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Ivan Jarnjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2713	Dear Mr. President of Parliament and Government, one question that would begin like this. About four years ago, we had the opportunity to see in the means of public announcement of Mr. Bestek's 100% disabled disabled man, who brought in a protest because he was declared a false invalid and then the defence minister handed over his prosthetics and said thank you I don't need it. The other day you, as Prime Minister and Vice President and Defence Minister, returned that prosthetics as a symbolism, at least that's how I understood it, the beginning of the execution of the pre-election promise, the care of defenders in the material, status and moral act. It surprised me, and so I'm asking you now, Mr. President, a statement and a comment from the former defence minister who said it was a play and demagogy. Was that really a play and a demagogy? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2714	Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2715	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Representative, I am so sorry that this human act that we were obliged to do to anyone that was in power of injustice must always be corrected. In the case of Dark Bestek, one of the legends of the Homeland War, one of the legends of Croatian defenders was to correct that injustice because all of us were reminded of the act that took place in the summer of 2001 where he returned his prosthetics. We didn't want to make a play, maybe it seemed melodramatic to someone because Darko Beštek cried at that prosthetic return, but I want to say one thing here. There are also defenders, unfortunately, those who took advantage of the situation, so they raised their disability from one degree to 30 or 50%. There are cases like this, and it's good that the former ministry started an audit, and it's good that even Cervenko had announced the deceased, and it's good that this ministry will continue to review such cases. But it is not good for a few people who have used and who may have incorrectly gone into agreement with medical committees above their disability, the degree of disability to be accused and to work on such an atmosphere in society as it was made, that defenders are mostly fighting for privileges, that they are false military people, etc. Therefore, it was necessary to correct that injustice and not only that. Several such cases among the defenders have been used to introduce one terrible procedure. On that occasion, the morning we were at the Ministry of Defence with Vice President Kosor, I saw six, I was shown and I think I should also show it to the public to see how the defenders were exposed, that is, to that process of translation into status. Six different bodies, six different procedures to end up in a sixth instance in the administrative dispute when given for the right, means when the defender is given for the right and he gets a dispute in the sixth instance he didn't get it but returned to the beginning and that's something that is totally unacceptable. I'm convinced that many members of the government, the former government, that many MPs, I didn't know that as an ex-legislator how harassing defenders are in that sense. So we are against the fact that someone is using, that someone is manipulating, that someone is raising himself a higher degree of disability, and that such cases should be served, but we cannot because of such cases, a whole population of defenders who are the most responsible or one of the most responsible and not be seen as demagogy, for independent and sovereign Croatia, these people should be recognized. It means sanctioning these cases, and like Beshtek who didn't have a leg, so he gave a prosthetic and said if I was a fake military invalid, we wanted to correct those cases, and it's good that we did it and I reject any objections that it was a play. It was a normal human act of restoring dignity to Darka Bestek.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2716	Thank you. Honorable representative Velimir Plesa.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2717	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. President of the Parliament, Prime Minister. A matter has been updated in Međimurje for several weeks, the stories first began about the abolition or closure of the Trnovec border crossing. When it was clear to the team that started talking about it to the customs administration that there was no speech, then it turned out that it was actually about being at the Trnovec border crossing, it was the border crossing towards Slovenia, the phytopathological and veterinary inspection was lifted. The story would not be so interesting for the question of the Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy but I will ask him for it to say whether it is true and if it is because the story is going to be because the HDZ has now come to power, and then everything that is in Međimurje should be abolished and so should these inspections, and if it is true whether these people remain jobless then, or whether these phytopathological and veterinary inspections are being moved to another border crossing towards Slovenia.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2718	Thank you. Minister Cobankovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2719	Thank you very much, Mr. President, thank you very much, Mr. Representative. I must tell you, unfortunately, this information is correct. It's true for a simple reason because we're from one. 5. When Slovenia enters the European Union, Slovenia, for its part, abolishes the phytopathological and veterinary services and inspections and thus cannot do so either, there is no need for us to have any more, these goods that control the phytopathological and veterinary inspection will not be able to go through that transition. I must also point out that in the context of our efforts and in the context of increasing accession to the European Union, our intensity is also to reduce the number of border crossings through which it enters, I would say this very sensitive slave. For these reasons, we... reduce the transition at which a phytopathological and veterinary inspection will be carried out, and we believe that in this way we will have better control and better entry of better quality goods. On the other hand, I can say responsibly that employees who have so far worked as phytopathological and veterinary inspectors will not be out of work because the scope of the job will practically remain the same only will they be focused not on more transitions but on a smaller number of passages. So they will get their solutions and will continue to do their job most likely at the Goric crossing.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2720	Thank you. Dear Representative Vlado Jukic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2721	I'd like to ask my question to the Deputy Prime Minister, Mr Hebrang, and he's already been spoken of. Namely, it's about the Dubrovnik Bank. The Dubrovacka Bank affair to remind you of myself and the public was opened at the time of the previous HDZ government. We have now heard that the former government has sold the Dubrovakia Bank for 180 and some million kuna, and we have heard that according to the Treaty on the Sale of States is due a billion and 250 million kuna, which is almost 7 times more than the amount obtained for the Dubrovnik Bank. Apparently, he's a buyer of the so-called. the offshore company and you don't know who's behind it. My question is specific and simple. Since the government was involved in the sale of Dubrovnik Bank, whether the government will publish a contract on the sale of Dubrovnik Bank.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2722	Minister and Deputy Prime Minister Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2723	Your Honor, Mr. Representative, we'll first check where this contract is and what it's like, so we'll give you the answer of the Ministry of Finance in one written notice.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2724	Here you go, colleague Jukic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2725	I must say that I am not satisfied with this answer but in order to help you because we have been doing this for a long time, counterpart Ruža Tomasic will submit a petition to you on the Dubrovnik Bank case documentation and several thousand signatures of the citizens of Dubrovnik-Neretva County that require the determination of the responsibility of all participants in the sale of Dubrovnik Bank. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2726	Thank you. Dear Representative Anto Djapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2727	Mr. President of the Croatian Government, according to a valuable law on the Croatian National Bank, the Croatian National Bank is an institution completely independent of the Croatian Parliament and the Government of the Republic of Croatia and does not answer to anyone for its business, while the Croatian Parliament only "informs" the financial situation. Is it known to the government that the CNB in its 2004 annual report showed a loss of 600 million kuna for 2002, 600 million kuna, and that a slightly smaller loss is expected also for the last year of 2003 to crack about 160 million dollars. As far as I know, it's the only central bank in Europe that shows a loss. Is the government considering amending the CNB Act, which the Croatian Parliament would once again take over at least part of the supervision of the work of the Croatian National Bank since it manages the international reserves of the Republic of Croatia, amounting to $5.7 billion net. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2728	Go ahead, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2729	Thank you very much, sir. I hope you won't mind me asking your previous question, I didn't have a chance because I reacted too late, I wanted to update the Vice President of the Parliament, on the previous question of your representative, Col. Yukic, to answer, as well as to use additionally, but related to the Dubrovnik Bank. It suits all of us in Croatia with the full truth in the case of the Dubrovnik Bank, and there is no such thing in this government, nor in this House, and I believe among the representatives of the position, nor the opposition of anyone who would, in the end, have in mind to hide anything in connection with the Dubrovnik Bank. Therefore, be sure that this government will do everything and I am personally interested in why we haven't received full information in the past 4 years, but we will do everything we can to find all relevant documents, contracts and publish them in the Croatian public. As far as your question is concerned, Mr. Djapic. First of all, I think we need to stay on the line of what's already been addressed and what's common in the world, which is that the National Bank, that the central state bank is independent. I agree with you that there are no, or very rare cases in which this happened in us, this case that you mentioned in 2002 is already being discussed in the Report in the Croatian Parliament, for 2003 we will only discuss it but we will certainly take account of it, however, we cannot and should not touch the independence of the National Bank, we should consider and see what practice is in other countries and agree to tighten surveillance especially if it works with loss, or if it shows loss but we should not touch under any price to its independence.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2730	Here you go, pal.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2731	Mr. Prime Minister, I just want to point out that the Croatian National Bank is no longer in control. does not revise the financial statements State audit, but it is done by private foreign auditors under the new CNB Act. And that's for 2003, which should have just received a hand-to-hand report... which was the main auditor of the Italian dairy company Parmalat where a bad audit caused the biggest financial scandal in Italy after 2. The Holy War, I would not want a similar thing to happen to us with the Croatian National Bank.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2732	Thank you. Honorable representative of Slaven Letica.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2733	Honored President Shakespeare, colleagues and colleagues. I'm kind of sad to see members of the government as if they're at the hearing, so even though I don't have the authority of the HSP Club as an independent representative, I'm going to compliment you Mr. Prime Minister, Foreign Minister for a series of successful foreign policy tours. I'll even say it even though it seems a little bit like a Balkan spine that I was glad to see you in Vienna at the ball. You two stood out in height, Bishop in width, but my question unfortunately concerns difficult Croatian opportunities and is of a convenient character. Today is the beginning of the criteria, and in this sense our question is directed. It goes on to the question I asked you the last time. I was under the impression that you would welcome my question. I noticed you, practically the entire cabinet, that the person I asked you to take him on the highways. I draw attention to my recent research showing that Cop constructoni, which received this scandalous annex contract, which was 30% higher than the overall budget of the President of the Republic's office, in the meantime destroyed about 1000 families in Italy. It's down to half a billion dollars, you know that. But today my question is even sadder. It's about decision number 176. I think there were 180 of them. It is the decision of the Supervisory Board of the Croatian highways signed by Radimir Cacic, which gives authority to Croatian highways to sign a secret annex contract on as many as 20 million US dollars also on behalf of the fictional early completion of one, one part of the highway. It's a stock from Jezerin to Visko Lišče. For people to know what this is about, this time this amount of EUR 20 million is exactly the same as the total annual budget of this House of Commons. So it's about serious things and my question is, and it's the ultimate nature in my humblest sense. Is there anything you'll do this time with regard to the BOOK and the State's Attorney's Office, because it's a little time to figure out what's going on in that area? I'm sorry, it's just, Mr. Prime Minister, while you're answering, I'll bring you those documents.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2734	Prime Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2735	First of all,
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2736	The poor thing went bankrupt.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2737	It's a check, what's this?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2738	This is Cacic's warrant. So 20 million dollars. This is the status report... And the poor girl who went bankrupt. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2739	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Representative, not only are we not standing, but I want to thank you first of all for the compliments we so rarely hear, but it's always nice to hear them, even if they were referring to the Operan Ball in Vienna, but I want to also convince you that we don't feel here on the defendant's bench but that we feel as responsible as a government who is willing to answer in the context of its knowledge of all the issues coming from the representative benches. Therefore, you should not be sorry for us, but only you ask anything interesting. But now a specific eye, about this question. Not only did we not do anything but we gave the floor a warrant to investigate and we came up with some more knowledge. For example, I will state without the appointment of the company, and therefore the leadership of the highway and road leadership will be called to account. We came up with some examples that look about like this. I will set an example without the appointment of concrete people and concrete companies that the job was given to a company that had a far higher price in the competition. Afterwards, a company that had a lower price complained to the Ministry of Finance, after the elections, so during this government now, complained to the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Finance referred back to the discussion I will not say now whether the roads or highways are still under investigation so that it would not be revealed too much at this time. This, therefore, the institution of the Croatian highway or Croatian highway ignored the letter from the Ministry of Finance, the new Ministry of Finance, and gave the new government a job to the company that was more expensive than the one that complained. There is, therefore, everything in this area and certainly there is a lot of work to be done both for the revision of both USKOK and for the institutions of state authorities. Make sure we haven't forgotten. Make sure we're working on it. And this case, the newest case you've given us, will be given to investigate.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2740	Let's go. Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2741	I'm actually very happy with your answer. I'm giving you full support. I must also commend the Croatian citizens, I practically have a bag full of such documents. So if any of these documents are destroyed in the meantime, I'd be happy if I don't have any physical problems to make available. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2742	Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, the Honorable Representative of Lucin, please be my guest.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2743	Mr. President, supporting your efforts to seduce order in the state, pardon the assembly,... I'll be there, 180 to 182. [[/The intruder doesn't understand.]] This, this expression of love between Mr Letica and the Government and the Prime Minister has lasted eight minutes. I'm asking you to get all the MPs who signed up for today's turn. No one in the Rules of Procedure has asked questions, deadlines or answered those questions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2744	It's hard for me to agree with you. Showing hate is forbidden, but love is not. Dear Representative Josip Djakic. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2745	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. My question is intended for Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister and Croatian Defence Minister i.e. families, defenders and intergenerational solidarity. I would ask you if the expert commission for the creation of a new Law on the Rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families has started working and when it is planned to adopt a new Law on the Rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War to correct the injustices committed to the most deserved population for the creation and defence, the release of our country to Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2746	Deputy Prime Minister Mrs. Jadranka Kosor, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2747	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Mr. Representative, I can therefore say with pleasure that this government in its work will especially seek to respect all deadlines, respect the conclusions or decisions of the Croatian Parliament that are binding on the Croatian government. I believe that you remember that after the debate on amendments and additions to the law on the rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families, which ended on 30 January, the Croatian Parliament reached a conclusion which obliged the Government to establish an expert commission to assist suspects or witnesses before the International Criminal Court. We did it on January 12th. So I think we've been more than in time. The government has appointed a professional commission in which representatives of the Croatian Defence Ministry, representatives of the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs are. Therefore, this expert commission begins with work and will, of course, have what is very important and support in the State budget. As regards the Law on the Rights of Croatian Defences from the Homeland War and members of their families, I can inform you that yesterday a working group, which should develop the Bill's proposal, which, I believe and so I have given instructions to the Working Party, will propose a law that will be adopted by consensus in the Croatian Parliament, so it will also be at a wide public debate, the work of the group will be attended by representatives of associations, so coordination, associations from the Homeland War, HVIDRA and the Association of Widows, representatives of the competent, or resolution ministries from the Ministry of the Interior to the Ministry of Defence. Of course representatives of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute, for health insurance. So I think that this competent working group will propose a law that will be enforceable, which will not be possible if it is adopted by consensus after any changes in the Croatian Parliament, or after the elections. Therefore, I believe that the law will be good, quality and in any case what I can guarantee you the law will be passed during this year. So, and proposed and passed the government and I believe then get the support of the Croatian Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2748	Representative Josip Djakić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2749	Thank you very much for this comprehensive and broad answer. But I would like to point out one more thing, that the real impatience in the population of Croatian defenders and wishes is expensive for all of us to be the law as soon as possible, so that we can plan our future and our lives.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2750	Thank you. Dear Representative Tonci Tadic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2751	Your Honor, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. I have a question for the Home Secretary. A week after the burning of a Serb returnee's roof in Biljani Donji, the Croatian town of Skabrnja was exposed to an unprecedented demonstration of the Croatian police force. Members of the MUP in Benkovac have been detained by minors from Shkabrnja without lawyers and parents. In addition, the president of HSP in Skabrnj was designated a suspect at the time, surrounded by eight police cars. His parents had health problems because of it, and the Skabrnjan are still in shock. It should not be mentioned that Mr Biliber spent 408 days in the MUP on Velebit defending Croatia and that his brother died in the Homeland War, and I do not have to explain to you Mr. Minister what Shkabrnja experienced in the Homeland War by the Chetniks. I don't know what you were thinking of finding in Mr. Biliber's house, if he's suspected of arson? If you found matches or a lighter, they're heating up on wood. If you found... a mixture of gasoline, they pour it into their motocultivator. In any case, Mr. Minister, my question, what was the purpose of this demonstration of the Croatian police force over Skabrnj?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2752	Minister Mlinaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2753	Mr. President-in-Office of the Parliament, Your Honor, Mr. Representative. Without anger and affection, the police were doing their job under the law after the house was burned. An examination of three minors in the presence of their parents has been carried out, which has been shown to have written certain bad signs in the house, that they damaged the installations and the bathroom. According to current findings, the police have yet to find out who burned down the house, but the investigation is under way. And once again, I note that the police have not exceeded their powers, nor have there been any, any outside the legal procedures in the whole process. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2754	A further explanation and the Prime Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2755	Thank you, Mr. President. Your Honor, Mr. Representative Tadic. There is no one in Croatia, I claim responsibly who will defend the dignity of Skabrnja more than me and this government. So let's not politicize the case, but equally, there is no one who will defend the rule of law more than this government, and I believe you agree with me. The burning of the house is out of the question, and that's where the rule of law has to work. As far as I know, the Ministry may not have mentioned it, but he had a court order, the police had a court order to investigate all this. Therefore, it is fully done in full, contrary to those who would like to violate the rule of law of Croatia, and according to the rule of law and the laws that rule in this country. So, Skabrnj and all of our sacrifices we've given, we can't bring, because then we're doing the bear a favor to ourselves, in the context of the burning of anyone's houses. Skabrnja is a reference to the area of large victims given by the Croatian people in Serbian aggression, but it cannot be allowed to, meaning such one context brings into the context of the house's burning. Because it is not good for those who burn down the house, and the police have acted in accordance with the law, they have acted in accordance with the court order, and they will continue to do so.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2756	Here you go, pal Tadic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2757	Dear Mr. Prime Minister, the HSP has been fenced from burning down houses, but what is amazing to us is that in these situations the HSP leaders are always the first to suspect. And you can't tell me that eight police cars around the house are a common procedure, and neither are you, Mr. Minister. So, that's enough of that.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2758	Honorable representative Mato Stimac.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2759	Your Honor, Mr. President... [[speaks off, can't be heard]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2760	I'd like a written report on this.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2761	... My question is for Mr. Roncevic's defence minister. [[speaks later turned on, can't be heard]] Media reported that there has been a shift in negotiations with Slovenia about St. Gera, i.e. The presence of the Slovenian army at St. Gera. So I'm asking you to explain to us exactly what this is about and what kind of shifts are all about?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2762	Minister Roncevic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2763	Mr. President of the Parliament, Mr. Representative. I've gotten that information like you through the means of public communication. I must say that I met a fellow Slovenian Defence Minister Mr. Grisold up in Munich during the 40th International Conference on Justified Policy, it was a programme of introductions, we agreed already this spring a working visit at the Minister's level and we agreed that one of the contents and resolving these issues of cross-border and positioning military facilities. I wouldn't speculate, because I haven't heard from my colleague in person, checking the truthfulness of those media inscriptions. But if that is the position and official position of the Slovenian government, I welcome it. But I say again, I repeat the official talks, they are planned for this spring and I hope that the final outcome will take place in that direction. For now it's just one media information, I don't think it's necessary right now for media information to ask for some extraordinary term of that meeting, but if that information is correct, I'm looking forward to it as defence minister and I hope that's how things will be solved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2764	Honorable representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2765	Dear Mr. President, honourable members of the government. A question to the prime minister and members of the government. So, if the external debt of the Republic of Croatia increased in 2003 from 15.5 to $23.5 billion. So it's expected that from 15.5 to $23.5 billion last year. It is expected that by the end of this year it could be not according to the finance ministry's projections of $27 billion but $30 billion. It is expected that the end of the mandate, meaning the current government will leave behind an external debt, not only of the government, there are banks, public enterprises, etc., with about 40 billion dollars. So it's to expect that the external debt per capita at this time is 5 thousand dollars means "per capital" for four years will double and that it will amount to about $10,000 per capita. All of this is probably saying that we are approaching the debt crisis at one rapid rate and a clear question is what appears to be avoiding unwanted syndrome.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2766	The Prime Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2767	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Representative, this is one of the most painful issues of the current situation in Croatia external debt and what the Government will do this year is visible from this draft budget. Surely, we have heard criticism from, for example, some opposition parties to make it better if our GDP growth was 6.7, 8.9%. We projected it at 3.2% of this year's administration as one of the measures to prevent further external borrowing. That's one thing. Secondly, we have already said in our program that we will concentrate on the domestic market. Therefore, the bonds will be avoided in the future and placed on the outside market rather than on the domestic market. This will achieve a double impact on the one hand avoiding new borrowing and, on the other hand, revitalisation, strengthening the domestic financial market. That's what we've already started and we're thinking about some other measures. I am aware of the gravity of the situation, and I am aware that this is one of the most critical points not only of our government but also of the past and of any other. But I'm also optimistic, I can't be pessimistic, and I can't accept this black scenario that you're afraid of. I hope you don't want him, nobody wants him, and we'll try to avoid him. I'm sure we can avoid him.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2768	Dear Representative Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2769	Your Honor, I think it's an obligation for all of us to make sure that doesn't happen. I don't blame the new government for what might happen, the one until January 3rd, the one after January 3rd, maybe. But I'm afraid it closes my eyes and this budget and doesn't prevent what can happen. I'm aware that this government wants to continue to live at least as clearly and better so far, but the fact that the 2003 trade deficit was $8 billion, that we've had so much more imports than exports, we're afraid it'll face us with the problem of serving debt and deficits, and we'll be short of simple foreign exchanges and then anything can happen.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2770	Honorable representative Carmela Caparin.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2771	Thank you very much. Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, Croatian Government, members of the government, colleagues and colleagues! I would like to refer my question to the Minister of Education, or to his secretaries. After a terrible case of child abuse in a home in Mali Losinj, the subject of abuse spread dramatically in polls. The problem of violence among children at school has also been updated. My question. What does the government do about the urgent legal regulation of this obviously neglected but escalating social problem? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2772	State Secretary Želimir Janjic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2773	Your Honor, Your Honor, Madam Representative! Unfortunately, we have been aware of this problem for some time, and of course we have not waited for the problem to be solved on its own, but rather for certain measures to be taken. I will now, in part, repeat to you what the Deputy Prime Minister, Mrs. Kosor, has already said in response to one of the questions that have been asked. So, the Co-ordination for Social Activities proposed on Tuesday a programme of activities to prevent violence between children and young people. The programme's proposal will be at the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Croatia will definitely determine the proposal for the programme. There are 14 short-term measures and 37 long-term measures. These long-term measures should result in the adoption of a national strategy for this problem around the end of this year, which you will discuss in the Croatian Parliament and finally establish. In addition, there are also a number of organizations that are trying to help solve this problem and, first of all, act preventively and I will remind here of the UNICEF programme of prevention of violence among children starting on 1 March of this year. One hundred schools will be included, approximately every school should provide 20 thousand kuna and 700 thousand kuna, respectively. All resources at this point are not yet provided and for these reasons we will find a way to do so as soon as possible. One of them will be, to mention that, and humanitarian concerts. The first one will be sponsored by the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia and will be provided with funds, for example, for the Split-Dalmatia County and later on, others. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2774	And Deputy Prime Minister, Mrs. Jadranka Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2775	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament! Your Honor, Madam Representative! I just want to supplement what Mr. Secretary of State said. The government will today, just today after the current clock is completed, so at 14 a.m., at the session, bring a programme to prevent violence against children, among children, or young people. It will be a programme that we have been trying to make quite concrete measures, so proposals for concrete measures. Among other things, as one of the long-term measures that will take place during this year is the adoption of a national strategy to prevent behavioural disorders and, of course, we will propose to amend several laws in this regard. So, very specific precise measures. The family ministry, defenders and intergenerational solidarity will oversee the implementation of these measures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2776	My colleague Caparin.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2777	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2778	Thank you. Honorable representative of Jure Bitunac.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2779	I welcome you all. I'm speaking to the Minister of Culture, the Honorable Mr. Boza Bishop. These days we had the opportunity to read in the daily papers about the extremely valuable in the world frameworks of sites in the region of Sinjsko polje and along the river Cetina. In addition to domestic scientists, great interest has been shown by prominent world experts, archaeologists who would somehow shed a new light on the very beginnings of human history, human civilization, and also on the time of the Antiquity. In the Cetina region, we see in some way the opportunity in terms of economic development and affirmation of the already existing tourist offers, and we welcome this action on new projections and this project. I must mention the problem of the protection of sites and the preservation of cultural treasure, which has also been written in the media on several occasions. My question, Mr. Minister, is the ministry aware and involved in the project and what will they do about protecting the localities? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2780	Thank you. Minister of Culture, Bishop. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2781	The area rich in archaeological findings from prehistory to early Christian period and it is true that it is a large area that protects one part of the inspection service of the Ministry of Culture and another part of the Ministry of Interior, and the basic police but of course we involved in this crime. police and in such a large area occur, of course, as in the newspaper and writes more and more collectors, even those who serve modern techniques with different detectors that reveal to them areas where metal objects are located in the country itself. [[You can't hear the speaker, you can't hear it.]] We will in any case step up inspection services, strengthen cooperation with the Ministry of the Interior, but there are ways we think we could prevent and preserve this very valuable archaeological treasure. It is, except it was activated by the Croatian Museum... And with one English firm, they're going to do infrared red dreams of the entire Cetina region, that way for archeological maps, which we welcome as a project. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We are committed to establishing a museum in Trill itself, and we are already working on it, it is one project that we will help. Because in this way we think that at least those domestic collectors who are not legal because everything exactly prescribed by the law to whom the archaeological treasure belongs, or finds, they still collect it illegally and we don't normally go abroad which, unfortunately, sometimes goes away, we try to help, that museums don't buy, but museums pay the finders, the one that belongs to them, that's how we keep some of that treasure. We hope that the Trill Museum itself will help.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2782	Your Honor, Mr. Bitunac, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2783	Mr. Secretary, thank you very much for your reply, and I'm pleased, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2784	Dear Representative Željko Nenadić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2785	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, the Honored Ladies and Gentlemen of Ministers, colleagues and colleagues. I would like to refer a question to the State Secretary of the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, Mr Nevi Šetić, which refers to the Institute of Education, the Republic of Croatia. The Ministry of Education of the Republic of Croatia shall carry out the activities of monitoring, improving and developing systems of education and education, providing professional teaching assistance to teachers, educators and professional associates, and shall initiate the creation of new curricula and programmes, participate in the development of educational standards and a wide range of activities in schools. The question is when will the Institute of Education begin at the end of activities and work, why is it founded? Because it seems, and also that we have a situation in schools and we are getting data from educators, there is a delay in the work of the Institute and when it will be appointed director of the Institute, because we know that now the performer of the duties and 19 new advisors is appointed when they will be appointed. Because we know that as an institution it is very important in the development and reform of education and as such it is very important for, especially for teachers and primary school teachers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2786	Thank you. State Secretary Nevio Šetić. Or Mr. Secretary of State, Želimir Janjic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2787	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Representative, you are well aware that for a time the Institute of Education, or the Institute for the Promotion of Education, has been abolished and that this Institute was re-founded last year by law. So, the Law of the Educational Institute. I therefore dare say that it is a young public constitution that was established only at the end of 2003 and that it is not yet staffed as it should be done. So at this point, we need to hire 19 counselors at the Educational Office so that we can cover all the areas. Now, at present, we have a situation to say counselor, a professor of physical education covers for example. economic school. We have called a tender, so, the Administrative Council has opened a tender for the Director, the competition is closed. And these days, the board of directors will meet and probably choose. The director will try to train the Educational Institute as soon as possible to empower him and to fix all these tasks as soon as possible. So, I wouldn't exactly say that there's been a stalemate over what's going on with the young constitution that's just been established, but which has these initial problems, that's for sure. We're also proposing a state budget and certainly taking care of it knowing that it's for... The Institute of Education needs 23 million kunas and there is a need to move to better areas where they will have better working conditions, to continue some projects from last year and to start new projects such as the PIZO project. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We proposed 32 million kuna in the state budget. So this applies not only to space equipment, one small part above that is for equipment spacious, but the good part, therefore, for projects that are being launched, and for projects that will go this year. One of these will certainly be the adoption of new curricula.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2788	And the Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2789	Thank you, Mr. President, with all that the Secretary of State has said and everything that stands, which is already included in the budget, I would like to say that despite this and these reasons, your observation is that there is still a small delay in the government, but this is because of the fact that we are keeping in mind that there is a very high degree of division in the professional public. There is a reflection in the expert public on the purpose of this law was passed in the second half of last year, i.e. at the end. But there are still great considerations in the professional public we want to hear all relevant opinions. He goes all the way but we still have to make sure that the professional public is divided. And that's one of the reasons why it still doesn't go at such a pace as you expect.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2790	Dear Agent Zeljko Nenadić, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2791	I thank Mr. Prime Minister and the Secretary of State for their very comprehensive answers. The Prime Minister has just touched on the importance of a problem relating to the Department of Education. And I convey the belief and trust of the educational staff of Sisak-Moslavina County that the Institute will finally begin to perform the function for which it was intended. Thank you. I'm happy with the answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2792	Okay. Dear Representative Drago Prgomet.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2793	Your Honor, Mr. President. Minefields today must be one of the most tragic consequences of the Homeland War. Over the past 12 years, 1700 people have been killed and you are likely to know for yourself that four weeks ago, two pyrotechnics were killed in Slavonski Brod near the city where normal people live, so it's not about return areas. And that number has reached the already alarming 47 dead pyrotechnics in the demining process. Noting that according to estimates another one million mine-explosive devices... in the Republic of Croatia at over 4.5 thousand square meters. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I ask the government, first of all, the minister of the family, defenders and intergenerational solidarity what does the government intend to do to address this problem, having in mind first of all a national mine action plan that is scheduled to clear Croatia from mines within about 6 years? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2794	Prime Minister, Jadranka Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2795	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Your Honor. Yes, on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, I received recently representatives of the pyrotechnics union in the government. We have just discussed this tragic and of course all the issues that today are plagued by pyrotechnics, among which of course I think that is quite well known to the public most Croatian defenders. What is the biggest problem spoken of by pyrotechnics today is the adoption of a law on humanitarian demining. The law was announced in 2000 at the time I had the honour of being a paralegal in the Croatian Assembly on behalf of the pyrotechnics' union to propose a law on humaitarian demining, but the law did not receive support. With a view to the fact that the then government has prepared a final law on humanitarian demining and that by the end of the year it will be on the parliamentary benches by 2000 and 2001, respectively. It didn't happen and we've agreed now in this government to finally make that law this year. And here I can inform you that on Monday, Mr. Interior Minister Mlinarić and I are going to a place where most pyrotechnicians will gather and some of the employers will gather. We are also going to see how and under what conditions the pyrotechnics are working on, and there we will agree on the details of this new law on humanitarian demining. Because it is in the interest of this government that this group of people finally return, as they often say symbolically, to return from war. Because, unfortunately, they've been thrown out of great danger every day. As regards the financing of demining operations, I can inform you that we have decided, of course, to try to get some other means from the state budget during the year, or other ways to finance the resolution of this truly huge problem in Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2796	Dear Representative Prgomet, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2797	Thank you very much. I'm happy with the answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2798	Dear Representative Petar Mlinaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2799	President-in-Office of the Croatian Parliament, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers, distinguished MPs and consignees. I refer the question to the Minister of the Sea, Tourism, Transport and Development, Mr Calmeta, about the purchase of apartments in Vukovar. My question, Mr. President, is going to be a little longer than the other Vukovar story if you'll let me, but I'll try to cut short.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2800	The question will be exactly in line with the Rules of Procedure in that time.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2801	The past government has proved insensitive to the ancient rights issue of the Vukovars. I remind you that in the entire state, only the Vukovars remained deprived of the opportunity to buy out what they had invested in the years of their work. There are as many as 6,000 apartments in the city that gave the biggest sacrifice in creating an independent and free Croatia without its owner. Could the Vukovars finally expect the right wrongs. And the question is when will the lease agreements be signed as a prerequisite for their ransom.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2802	You were too short. Minister Calmeta, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2803	I thank the president, so it is known that there are 6,000 social housing in Vukovar. Of these 6,000, about 1,400 apartments are still to be renovated by the end of the year, so they are not renovated apartments. And otherwise in Croatia, around 1800 should be restored by the end of the year, the largest part in Vukovar said 1400. And most of what's left is in Knin. In the course of the basic capital exemption process, these dwellings are exempted from the underlying capital and a solution is made to make these dwellings state-owned. And then state property this Ministry to which I'm headed will assign and assign to former users. The moment is when it comes to Vukovar, we have 1,000 solutions ready for the assignment. After these 1,000 solutions have been awarded, the lease agreements will be signed afterwards, and then the former owners will be able to purchase the new owners of the apartments and apartments now. It's one process that you said yourself quite difficult and complicated. But he's going he's going and we're definitely going to end it this way and end it.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2804	Dear Representative Petar Mlinarić, please be my guest.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2805	Thank you very much, Mr. Minister. I would only ask that, estimatedly, the purchase of 6,000 former social housing apartments in Vukovar would make 400 million kuna. So if it could be invested in the revitalisation and economy of Vukovar. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2806	Dear Representative Pejo Trčević:
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2807	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Prime Minister, ministers, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. I refer the question to the Minister for Environmental Protection, Spatial Planning and Construction. Namely, the legal obligation of your ministry is to set up a place for the disposal of radio active waste and parts of Krško nuclear power plant by 10 March this year according to an international contract between the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Croatia. About the decommissioning of the Krško nuclear power plant. My question is, where did you determine the location of that dump and when will its construction begin? And if you haven't done that yet, how do you intend to respect the obligations of that international treaty? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2808	Minister Matulović Dropulić please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2809	Mr. President, Mr. Representative, as you know in that contract, it says by 10. 4. should be created and formed a fund for the decommissioning of Krško's nuclear power plant. The bill has been made, however, until full reports have been received from the Supervisory Board and no such proposal can be submitted from the Assembly in Krsko for discussion. We do not have such dumps in Croatia, nor do we intend to make them. We will therefore do everything to make this waste and we have interested countries that want to import radio active waste, so we will do everything we can to make sure that this radio active waste is not in Croatia, but before that, we will have a very good debate all together about the formation of the Krško nuclear decommissioning fund. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2810	Thank you. Dear Representative Trječević.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2811	Thank you very much for your response, Madam Minister, at this time I am merely reporting to you and the Croatian public that representatives of the Croatian Party have launched an initiative to delete the location of Trska Gora in Sisak Moslavina County, which was to delete it from the spatial plan as a possible location for the disposal of radioactive waste. And I sincerely hope this initiative of ours gets the support of this tall House. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2812	Here you go, Minst.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2813	Mr. Representative in the Trade Mountains has never been provided for a location for waste from the Krško nuclear power plant. In the programme of spatial planning of the Republic of Croatia, the Shop Gora said that the site for medium and low radio active waste should be examined. We are now in the full revision of the strategy of spatial planning, and the programme of the spatial arrangement of the Republic of Croatia in which the problem is also covered. And you're not the only ones who have more clubs and more people asking for the Trade Mountain to be wiped out. So we'll take care of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2814	Dear Representative Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2815	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, I refer my question to the Prime Minister. The restructuring of railways is a significant project for Croatia. Investments were to be provided with construction, infrastructure and European corridors and rails of local importance. Moreover, the project should further invest in the safety of the transport of goods and passengers. In addition, for macroeconomic stability a significant project was the opening of an investment market for the Croatian industry. This was the reason why we also defined the Law on Railways as funding sources in the first phase of these projects. The draft budget shows that we will not secure the project or at least not in the fiscal year 2004. What I'm interested in and what's my question. Given that in restructuring a significant number of people in the railroad, he had to take severances and leave the railroad. The restructuring still includes salaries of workers from 3.100,00 kuna at the end of 99th day 4,400,00 kuna. Signed collective agreements, social peace. I ask the Prime Minister, given that non-investment in the railways will also endanger collective contracts and pay security, which, in such a crisis situation, if he postpones the project for a year, will make it at least preserve collective peace and collective agreements.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2816	Go ahead, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2817	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Advocacy on this issue that you are already anticipating a debate on the State Budget's 2004 proposal. As part of this debate, there will be plenty of time and space to discuss and answer this question. I will now just say that the Croatian government is not giving up on the restructuring plan of the Croatian Railways. Therefore, we remain on this plan, but we will also learn about this debate and how the former government meant it, for example by raising the fuel price by 30 June. Therefore, we do not give up on this, but we are in favour of an open debate to see what opportunities are at the moment that Croatia is in place and given the fact that we have 22 billion of this year's dues, around 16.8 billion plus 5 billion interest and everything else. But I say once again, since we're anti-cicimating the debate from the budget, we leave it behind the agenda on the budget, and our orientation remains the structure of the railways.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2818	Dear Representative Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2819	Mr. President, all I asked was crisis measures, given the maintenance of collective agreements against workers and social peace. Unfortunately, I remember the 2000 railroad with accidents and strikes, and that's why I'm only asking about intervention measures for the preservation of social peace in the railways and I'm asking for a written answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2820	Thank you. Honorable representativeplatimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2821	I'm giving the question to the prime minister. Based on a series of laws in the field of health care and health insurance, Croatian Institute of Health Insurance and General Hospital Dr. Tomislav Bardek of Koprivnica concluded a contract on the conduct of hospital specialist consular health care for patients with acute diseases for 2003. The contract therefore provides for the purchase of certain services from the general hospital and for this the Croatian Health Insurance Office has committed to paying the monthly amount of 8 million and 219 000 and 800... It is a contract between the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance and the General Hospital of Dr. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Tomislav Bardek from Koprivnica on the conduct of hospital and specialist consular health care for patients with acute diseases for 2003. Therefore, the Croatian Health Insurance Office is obliged to pay hospital services from that area in the monthly amount of 8 million and 219 thousand 840 kuna. The contract has power until the end of 2003, i.e. until the conclusion of a new health care contract for 2004. As such a contract is not yet concluded, this contract is still in force. However, in the first and second months, Koprivnica General Hospital received 7 million kunas instead of 8 million 219 thousand kunas, which questioned the functioning of the General Hospital in Koprivnica and was one of the few hospitals that had not had a loss in the last 10 years and had no budget to repair the debt of the hospital. The question for the prime minister is, what will make the Government of the Republic of Croatia reconcile the contractual commitments made between the health insurance office and the general hospital, which, according to the provisional budget financing in the 12th year, is therefore 8 million kuna, because in this case, the General Hospital in Koprivnica, which I repeat, has never dealt with with any loss, will be placed in a position to be late in payments and will have to pay interest on late payments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2822	Go ahead, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2823	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I am pleased that MP Mršić asked me this question, as this question should have been asked to the previous Prime Minister on the occasion of the adoption of a provisional budget until the actual state budget for 2004. In temporary financing, they were abolished, hospitals were suspended for 500 million kuna, and according to this hospital you're talking about. Therefore, the contract you mentioned is valid until the conclusion of a new one and the adoption of a new state budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2824	Dear Representative Mršić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2825	That's exactly what I was talking about. The Government therefore has an obligation, but I must say that the Croatian Health Insurance Office has provided a million and a half kuna less per month without informing the Director or the Board of Directors which are the reasons why it does not fulfil its contractual obligation. ... Please, but that should've been notified to the principal then. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] That's one thing. And secondly, temporary funding predicts one twelve for each month. One twelve for each month is 8 million and 100 thousand kuna, and certainly not 30% less than this. If so, a smaller number of services should have been agreed with the hospital according to temporary financing.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2826	Another Prime Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2827	Ma MP Mršić is politicizing needlessly. All of what he is talking about is now already said at the press conference of the Croatian Health Insurance Institute. That's what the minister was talking about. So everything we're talking about is familiar and I don't think there's any need to re- politicize the whole thing.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2828	Thank you very much. I would like to inform my representatives that the chairman of the Committee on Immigration, Mrs Zdenka Babić-Petričević, called for a meeting of the Committee today at 14.15 a.m. in hall 149, and the chairman of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture Petar Selen is sitting in the committee tomorrow starting at 9:00 a.m. in the morning at Hall 133/I. I'm interrupting the session and...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2829	You have to tell us the agenda.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2830	...and we start in, you're a late colleague I'm sorry. I saw it, okay.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2831	We need to find out the agenda for today.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2832	You're too late. I'm sorry, but you're wrong because when your debate and debate with the Prime Minister ended and I've read these notices before, then you've picked up the board. Please note that you are too late. We'll continue at 3:00. My colleagues and colleagues, we continue to work. Here's your colleague Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2834	Dear President, since you did not allow me to point to the breach of the Rules of Procedure at the end of the morning meeting, I would like to say that you have injured Rules 180 of Procedure. Since the current morning did not last in rule 4 hours today and the current 2 current mornings lasted by 1/3 shorter than the rules prescribed by the Rules of Procedure. Which means the rule isn't four hours, right? And the second in the Rules of Procedure is not prescribed anywhere that the session, the first part of the session, ends at 13 hours and 30 minutes, I think that part of the MPs who stayed up all night in the Assembly in order to be able to ask the government some question of interest for Croatian citizens, and it was necessary to do at least an hour of current advance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2835	Thank you very much, dear colleague. First of all, I didn't bring that Rules of Procedure. This Rules of Procedure brought the Croatian Parliament, which says that the current morning takes four hours, so it can last even shorter, can last longer. What are these values, unfortunately, we in the Rules of Procedure do not have precise, clearly defined. I couldn't give it to you because really after your controversy with the Prime Minister ended, only then did you come forward with the correctional board, for the violation of the Rules of Procedure. I looked closely, so I didn't deny anyone anything. Thank you very much. Let's move on, on the agenda. 1. Report of the mandate-immunity commission that you received at the session. I ask Mr. Damir Sesvecan's representative to file reports.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2837	Mr. President, esteemed colleagues and fellow MPs. The mandate-immunity commission of the Croatian Parliament discussed at the 4th session held on 24 February 2004 a written request for the rest of the parliamentary term, which is in accordance with Article 14. Law on election of MPs in the Croatian Parliament was submitted by Ana Lovrin, representative of the Croatian Parliament, acting on 17 February 2004. As Mrs Lovrin was elected representative as a candidate on the Croatian Democratic Union's list at 9. The election unit, the Croatian Democratic Community, is in accordance with Article 12(1). The law ordered Mr. Rade Ivas as deputy representative in that election unit to begin acting as representative instead of representative Anna Lovrin. The Commission has established that the law lays down the conditions for the start of the stay of representative Ana Lovrin's mandate, as well as the conditions for the start of the conduct of her deputy, Rada Ivas. In accordance with the words, the mandate-immunity committee shall unanimously propose to the Croatian Parliament a decision on the stay of the parliamentary mandate and the start of the conduct of the parliamentary office of the deputy representative, which shall determine that, on 25 February 2004, it has begun the stay of the representative, Anna Lovrin, and that the agent's duties are in accordance with Article 9(2). The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, on 25 February 2004, began acting as Deputy Representative of Rada Ivas. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2838	I thank the President of the Committee. I'm opening a debate on his report. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the Decision in accordance with the proposal of the Mandate-Immunity Commission. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Abstained? I find that with 102 votes in favour, the decision was unanimously made in accordance with the proposal of the Mandate-Immunity Commission. We move on to the swearing of Mr. Rada Ivasa's representative in accordance with Article 7. Rules of Procedure. The oath is given in a way that the president of the House reads the text of the oath and then the representative after being called up and utters his oath. I'll read the text of the oath. I swear by my honor that I will act consciously and responsibly in my work and that I will abide by the Constitution and the law and respect the legal order and that I will stand up for all progress of the Republic of Croatia. Mr. Ivas, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2839	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2840	Thank you. ... I congratulate the representative on his sworn oath and wish him success in carrying out his honorable and responsible representative's duties. [[Applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen should now be at the turn of elections, appointments and resolutions, but since the professional service is still multiplying very extensive material from the session of the Committee of Choices and appointments with the résumés of all outside members with all others, it will come in perhaps 30 minutes before the MPs maybe something longer. We're going to have to skip that you have all the tables with all the proposed candidates, résumés and suggestions in front of you. I don't think it'd be good to argue without it. We'd skip that and move on to the next point. - Final draft law confirming the Agreement on Cooperation in Military Training between the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Turkey, with the Final Proposal of the Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading of P.Z. No. 21. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, when establishing the agenda, we accepted the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of this law. You received the proposal by mail. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings of the Law. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security. You received the reports at the session. Does Defence Minister Berislav Roncevic want to further explain the proposal? Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2842	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. For the sake of clarification of 96, two contracts with Turkey were signed, in the last session, you confirmed by your decision the Agreement in military areas of training, techniques, science, it was signed in 6 months, after which it was in international co-operation 23. 8. In 96, a special military training contract that discusses the issue of military training, was not ratified with the Republic of Turkey. We have extremely correct military cooperation, and on behalf of the Government, I propose that we confirm this agreement here in order to have legal force as provided for by the Law on Confirmation of International Agreements. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2843	I thank the minister. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? President of the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security. Mr. Ivan Jarnjak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2844	Mr. President-in-Office of the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security at the 2nd session held on 23 February 2004 discussed the proposal for a law confirming the Agreement on Cooperation in Military Training between the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Turkey with the Final Proposal for a Law by the Republic of Turkey, with the final proposal for a law submitted by the Government of the Croatian Parliament, by an act of 22 January with the proposal to pass the law by an urgent procedure. The Committee does not object to a proposal for the adoption of this Act by emergency procedure because it has assessed that the law is of interest to the Republic of Croatia and there is no objection to the text of the final draft law. After a brief discussion, the Committee unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament the adoption of a law confirming the cooperation agreement on military training between the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Turkey in the text as proposed by the legislator. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2845	I would like to thank the President of the Committee. Would the President of the Committee on Lawmaking like to elect Mr Florian Boras president of the Legislative Committee?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2846	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian Parliament's Legislatives Committee at the 4th session held on 24 February this year discussed a proposal for a law confirming a military training cooperation agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Tusk with the final expiry of the law. That's Bill No. The 21st to the president of the Croatian Parliament was submitted by the Government of Repulica in an act of 22 January 2004. The Legislative Committee supports the adoption of this Act and does not object to the proposal proposed by the Commission to adopt the law by an urgent procedure. There are no objections to the text of the final proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2847	I thank the president of the Committee. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HSPa Club, Honored Representative Pero Kovacevic, please choose a colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2848	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, ladies of the game first of all on behalf of the klcuba we are glad that this agreement has finally come to confirmation. It is about an agreement signed on behalf of the Croatian government in 1996 by the late General Cervenko. And we find it inadmissible that this agreement was lying somewhere on the side that it didn't know where it was. That he only came today for confirmation at the Croatian Parliament. And that's why we suggest that we examine how something like this could have happened. Another very important thing is that this agreement will mean a lot to the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia, along with those voted in last session of the parliament, in joining Croatia into NATO. And it's important to say the next thing you know, we normally take on our obligations with this agreement. Speaking of commitments, I have to say briefly what's most important, and that's that we have the current situation in the armed forces, so we don't actually have just two branches of the armed forces, which is the Navy and the Air Force, it's rumored to translate. We don't have a defense plan, we don't have a plan to use the armed forces. We don't have the structure of rank, the pyramids of acts, and all that's been done so far has been a clean reduction and a clean-up of the armed forces. And because of that, and that we have entered NATO and the final objection is that as far as I know from the official sources and from the NATO delegations, we must urgently move into the reshuffle. And for this reason, I appeal to the minister to take measures to finally move Croatia to the reconstruction of the armed forces so that they can carry out their internationally recognised obligations and have the defence system that our Croatian people deserve. And that's why I'm offering a model and a model that the minister is already exhibiting himself, it's a German model that we're going to re-establish the armed forces through the sale of military property into leases and other things. Not to continue the practice that has been done so far. That these most valuable military properties are targetedly donated in ways that armed forces and states have no use for. Because you know in advance who got it and who got it. We therefore appeal to start a reshuffle to carry out our international commitments. And not to carry out a reduction, this isn't a reconstruction, it's a reduction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2849	I thank Representative Kovacevic. I don't have anyone registered on behalf of the club or a representative on this agenda. I'm closing the debate. Is the government's representative in the hall for the final draft of the bill on the confirmation of the contract between the Republic of Croatia and Australia on social ascension. Minister Vukelic. Or Miss Vera Babic's lovely secretary. Then we won't be discussing it for now because Mr. Minister and Madam Secretary of State should be here and will be here when they will be discussed. We're going to the vote. First, the Final Proposal for a Law on Confirming an Agreement on Co-operation in Military Training between the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Turkey was an emergency procedure. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? We note that, unanimously with 100 votes, the Law on Confirming an Agreement on Co-operation in Military Training between the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Turkey was adopted in the text proposed by the applicant.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2853	Thank you very much. The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2854	Thank you very much. We're closing the debate. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Abstained? I note that 100 votes unanimously passed a law confirming the treaty between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Slovak Republic on cooperation and mutual assistance in disasters. In the text proposed by the Proposer, together with the amendment accepted. - Proposal for a Law confirming an agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on simpler border control in road and rail transport, with the Final Proposal of the Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading of P.Z. No. 38 The Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. When establishing the agenda, we accepted the emergency procedure. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the Rules of Procedure, an emergency procedure unites the first and second readings of the law. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Legislative Committee. Would the applicant's representative like to further outline the proposal? State Secretary at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2856	Your Honor, Mr. President, the Honorable MPs and MPs. Cross-border traffic between the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Slovenia has been arranged with several different bilateral acts, from the joint minutes, on road and border crossings from 1994 to the agreement on carrying out rail traffic across the state border from 97. As well as the border transport and co-operation agreement that came into force in 2001. These documents, however, do not ensure the rapid control of cross-border traffic and... the location of border crossings at a common location of one or the other where such a solution is rational because of the faster exercise of border control, or from the aspect of the use of space, or the reduction of costs for their construction. The services responsible for border control of each country carry out and control cross-border traffic each for themselves and separately, without the necessary mutual cooperation and coordination, thus already slowing traffic across the border. In the near future at the Croatian-Slovenian border, it is possible to expect the introduction of Schengen standards, which will likely further slow cross-border traffic. If this is not approached in a significantly more efficient way in work, with mutual cooperation and acceleration of procedures. They are also under way to build and open border, border crossings for which, in certain cases, they may need to be placed at a common location. On the territory of one country or another, and for such cases it is necessary to provide a legal framework. The essence of the change in the existing mode of traffic control across the state border is to facilitate the work of competent traffic control services across borders on the territory of another country. Therefore, during the journey on trains, i.e. at border crossing points where official border control places will be designated, i.e. the establishment of such a zone. In this context, the emphasis is placed on entry control in cross-border traffic control procedures. Therefore, each party primarily controls entry into its own territory. It also means sharing information with each other. And this... enables the Croatian side to start running the Schengen labour standards in the relevant services even before entering the European Union. In order to create such an intensity, it is necessary to establish the necessary cooperation between the services of the two countries that carry out border control, and such a reorganisation of business implies a more rational approach to staff and other resources which will nevertheless be limited for both countries and constitute a financial burden. The Agreement shall continue to establish a legal framework for the exercise of the rights and obligations of civil servants of the neighbouring country in the field of the domestic state when working in the so-called so-called so-called State. Zones. This also prevents possible incidents. In any case, this bill will strengthen and this law will strengthen good neighbourly relations, introduce European standards in carrying out border control in road and rail transport, and will certainly have a positive impact on tourism. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2857	I thank the Secretary of State. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of Shima Lucin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2858	Thank you very much. Well, I would like to correct the incorrect allegations, given that Mr. Secretary of State said that at our northern border, or that at the border with Slovenia, the Schengen border would be almost established. I don't know exactly what it's supposed to be, it can be in two months, and it can be in two years. But the Schengen Slovenes are starting to establish, raise, or in 2007. It's an incorrect quote, not recently, but in 2007.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2859	Do the Committee's rapporteurs want to take the floor? The Legislative Committee? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. There's no record of a hearing. I'm closing the debate. Fifthly, the Final Proposal for a Law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on simpler border control in road and rail transport, emergency procedure. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? I note that with 101 votes, the Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on the simpler exercise of border control in road and rail transport was unanimously adopted in the text as proposed by the Proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2862	Your Honor, Mr. President. The interest of the Republic of Croatia in ratifying this conflict treaty is an extremely important topic. The entry into force of the concession contracts will create the conditions for the completion of the multiannual succession procedure of the former SFRY, and provide a legal basis for the final distribution of the remaining assets of the former SFRY. The end of this procedure is of particular political importance for the Republic of Croatia for which the entry into force of this Treaty means the termination of all remaining ties with the State established in the area of the former SFRY. The problem of succession as a very complex and politically sensitive issue comes into effect in this contract, becomes a matter of the past and thus ceases to burden bilateral relations with neighbouring countries. This creates favourable conditions for developing stable relations with neighbours, which are turning the future, and this also makes it the cornerstone of regional stability in this part of Europe. The stability of the region and the development of cooperation with neighbouring countries are key to the economic progress of the Republic of Croatia as well as an important step in the process of approaching the European Union. The European Union reiterates its interest in keeping this question of words in such a way that any further delay in the process of confirming the treaty is unnecessarily slowing down the pace that the Republic of Croatia fulfils the conditions in the process of approaching the European Union. Immediately after the signing of the concession agreement under the Government of the Republic of Croatia, a procedure was initiated to prepare the materials and refer the contract to the Croatian Parliament for confirmation. The procedure stopped after the first meeting of the Committee on Financial Activity and Passives, a committee gathering representatives of all the following countries, which has been acting on temporary grounds since the signing of the contract until its entry into force, established that there are no USD 589 million missing from one item of the financial activity which is the subject of distribution and which is explicitly set out by the contract in reality. The Government of the Republic of Croatia will continue, in cooperation with the Croatian National Bank, to take the necessary actions in order to determine the actual situation relating to the assets which have been allocated in accordance with Article 5 of Annex C of the Treaty on Succession Affairs. In addition, it is noted that the work on the distribution of archival buildings and on the establishment and distribution of military assets for which the contract has laid down only the principles of determination and distribution cannot begin until the contract enters into force. It should also be borne in mind that, due to a significant period of time since the disintegration of the former SFRY as well as the fact that the possible inadequate maintenance of assets for which the session belonged, any further delay in the final allocation of the remaining assets of the former SFRY may result in a reduction in its value. In any case, I would like to stress that the Government of the Republic of Croatia is not giving up on the real financial situation and will continue its current and increase its activities in the field so far. I would like to stress that ratification enables the start of the distribution of property archives, diplomatic missions and consular offices, their property and the total cultural treasure. I would also like to emphasise that the ratification of this agreement allows for the start of negotiations on... With the Russian Federation, about 300 million U.S. dollars. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In any event, the following assessment shall be made that the conditions for the continuation of the verification procedure for this contract have been established. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2863	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? The chairman of the Legislative Committee, Mr. Florian Boras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2864	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The Croatian Parliament's Legislative Committee at the 5th session held today on 25 February 2004 discussed the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Treaty on the Issues of Succession with the Final Proposal for the Law, which was the proposal of Law No 39, which was submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Government of the Republic of Croatia by an act of 18 February 2004. The Legislative Committee supports the adoption of this law and does not object to the proposal for a bill to be adopted by an urgent procedure. There are no objections to the text of the final proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2865	Thank you. The Committee on Foreign Policy, would you like to submit an oral report?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2866	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues! I would just like to convey what the Committee on Foreign Policy discussed yesterday about this law on the ratification of succession with the countries of the former Yugoslavia, in which it unanimously supported an emergency procedure request and unanimously supported the text of that law, the spirit of that law and everything that this law contains. It is the unanimous conclusion of the Committee on Foreign Policy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2867	I thank the board president. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the IDS Club, Honorable Representative Damir Cain. Here you go, buddy!
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2868	Dear Mr. President, the honourable representatives of the government, the distinguished gentlemen of the council! In 2001, when this IDS Succession Treaty was signed, it is likely that one of the few parties in this House who proposed that an item be placed on the ex-Yugoslavia case through this succession. By entering into force of this contract, I will quote a quote on page 4, and it was quoted by the Secretary of State, "means the end of all remaining ties with the states created in the area of the former SFRY". So it's a done quote. Why were we proposing this in 2001? We were first of all aware that this search for those 598 or pardoned 589 million US dollars missing from the account of ex Yugoslavia will never be found. Finally, it was clear to all of us that Milosevic spent this money to finance the war was in the territory of the Republic of Croatia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, for pensions in Serbia, etc. We've also known about this money for 12 years. This does not mean that the recipients of this money from the United States do not know further who raised it, how it was spent but apparently that at that time they were not willing to help the Republic of Croatia. And finally, all the other states created in the ex-Yugoslavia area of that money have kind of raised their hands. So, 2001. The IDS was about to speak to Mr. Belgrade, we are aware that this will cost us tens of millions of dollars. Finally, only for Blaskić the budget is singled out, I will not go too far if I say 15 million US dollars but withdraw the money, withdraw the rights elsewhere that allows us this conflict agreement and put an end to ex Yugoslavia. We also spoke in Belgrade in 2001 as a new government. There means he is no longer Milosevic, the war wounds are clearly remembered, they are not forgotten, but life in some way must begin from the beginning. This means working on the economic exchange, returning the refugee population and Croats to Serbia-Montenegro and vice versa. Clearly, guaranteeing abandoned assets, etc., etc. Finally, if I am not mistaken, Croatia has filed a suit with international institutions for the war that was waged in these areas. Croatia has also sought cultural goods. What's most sensitive is gone and we can't say that it didn't move forward at that time. Finally, visas were abolished in the meantime, and I believe that this is a big deal for the people of one country and another. Secondly, why did we insist on the conclusion of the concession agreement? Well, mostly, gentlemen of the Parliament, because of the Ljubljanska Banka. To be clear, the behaviour of the Ljubljanska banka, more precisely to be more precise Slovenian governments against savings, not only from the Republic of Croatia, but also from Bosnia and Herzegovina, Serbia-Montenegro, etc. It's the most common insolence. However, it was 2001. Slovenia was dared to say before the settlement and did not insist so firmly on the principle that the debt of the Ljubljanska Banka would be treated through this concession agreement. And finally, Croatia had strong allies in the area, I will call them, cheated states starting from Bosnia and Herzegovina via Macedonia and Serbia to Montenegro. You also know that at one point it was even about Slovenia closing the issue but perhaps it was part of Croatia's fault. For example, the Ljubljanska Banka did not have access to Croatia and the Italian banks, we know on the other hand, control about 48.9% of the monetary capital of the Republic of Croatia through the Business Bank of Zagreb. And where then there's clearly no real estate, the companies that are in the portfolio of these banks, etc. At the Ljubljanska banka, three moments should be highlighted. First, it is also true that we start with that and the Ljubljanska Banka is asking for part of the money from the Croatian economy it cannot clearly be recanted. Second, however, the real problem is this transferred, or unsustainable savings. The unsustained savings are the following, Croatia took over about 600 million marks of commitments that the bank had towards Croatian savings in the year 91. This was done through that form of secured savings, more specifically covered by the state budget of the Republic of Croatia. It was said that it was agreed because at the time many Croatian officials were saving in the Ljubljanska Banka, but now it doesn't matter, 300 thousand Croatian savings were resolved but I am afraid, and I don't know why Croatia doesn't ask for money from Ljubljana. Second, unsustainable savings. It is about searching somewhere from 113-115 thousand Croatian savings that are currently searching for around 330 million marks, plus a clear, appropriate interest. It's about people who didn't believe 91/92. Croatia, meaning at the time of the war, etc., that it will be the one who will pay them back, the lag money in the Ljubljanska Banka. And the problem is today, no matter what, these people are left to the thought of the Ljubljana Bank today. For example. In 2000, the Ljubljanska Banka wanted to get rid of claims about 100,000 so-called 100 thousand. the little savings they called, which had those stakes of 2 to 3 thousand marks. I am personally told not to mention who, that if the Ljubljanska Banka enters the Croatian premises it will be resolved as they would say in private. The Croatian National Bank, where, in the Istrian Bank, in particular, let me be open, the Croatian National Bank, which caused the crisis in the Istrian Bank, refused to accept it on the other hand, however, clearly why. These 100,000 savings could have been received somewhere around 30 million marks, a defect, and the Ljubljana Bank of that administrative cost would have been dismembered and would have profited in the end. I believe that on this issue, when the Ljubljanska Banka is on Wednesday, our claim should remain firmly with Bosnia and Herzegovina plus Macedonia, Serbia-Montenegro and on the principle that it stands here in the agreement that "every follow-up assumes a guarantee for banks that are based in its area. "Got the quote. It's a principle for me, and it can't be escaped clearly. The Ljubljanska Banka has the right to its claims but the Croatian state plus Croatian citizens also have the right to their claims. But it's easier to say than to make it clear with Ljubljana and I think it's a real question between Croatia and Ljubljana and not so much of the issue of demarcation either at sea, or somewhere else because it can wait. But clearly no one got paid in this country for any territorial concession to anyone. So to wait, yes, we're not in IDS for concessions. I would even say that this unsustained debt of Croatia in some way might have to think about solving from the secured savings and then making the debt clearly saddened by the Republic of Slovenia. Dear gentlemen, Croatia, obviously, we all know that under this contract which is not signed has obligations but also has rights. For example. for 10 years we have paid off our commitments to these famous London and Paris clubs and in this budget for 2004 part of the money on this basis has been calculated into the obligations of Croatian taxpayers. On the other hand, we can withdraw tens of millions of US dollars either in gold. For example, the issue of clearing, Croatia has the right to $297 million of clearing dollars from Russia, but that money can only be withdrawn by signing this contract. We can also withdraw about 60 million dollars from the United States. And God forbid it might have happened three years ago because that was when the dollar was 40% stronger than it is today, and that way it wouldn't have profited, but it would have saved something. This, on the other hand, opens up additional jobs with Russia, I don't know about shipbuilding or any other activities. It would be just as good to trace the $589 million in dollars, but today I simply doubt that possibility. The second question is the means of movable and immovable property, cultural treasures, I don't know pictures, art, buildings of our consulates, embassies or the former state, it doesn't matter, etc. This is about the property from which the Republic of Croatia can withdraw hundreds of millions of US dollars and my advice would be not to wait with it even though these properties, we know not to lose value. However, they keep value, especially if it is, I don't know about embassy buildings in large parts of cities, large cities, etc. The specific question is pensions, I think it should be careful not to punish people, at least not those who have always been Croatian citizens with residence on the ground of the Republic of Croatia but who have worked for some time in federal institutions, it doesn't matter if it's the military, etc. Finally, the people who stayed in these areas, who did not go with the former army, I believe that they were always loyal to the Republic of Croatia and should not be punished for this loyalty. Let's finally remember what it was like with the so-called. Army flats out there somewhere on 91./2. etc. And it's good to introduce the principle of residence here on day one. Six. 91st year. As far as housing rights are concerned, the principle is 31. 12. 1990. Military personnel in the Republic of Croatia, meaning those who stayed behind after leaving JNA, it is relatively correct with a ten-year delay regulated if I am not wrong in 2001./2002. Maybe it's the most credit to the IDS. Citizens of Serbian nationality are still to be regulated from 91 to 95, but not as established in 2002/2003. through the shape of the business. In my opinion, it's discrimination against all those who bought and you who bought apartment 91/92. years based on household law. In my own words, according to the IDS Club, this is a political document parexelans, this is a document that belongs in a way and in the sphere of human rights. One word that tries to protect certain civilizational fluids. It's finally a document that, as we all know, regularly tracks every country that's falling apart. Czechs, Slovaks, I don't know the people of the ex-Soviet Union didn't fight, maybe they were a little smarter. Unfortunately, we couldn't avoid the war, we showed ourselves somewhere like Bosnia, but let's let it go now, we'll probably have to pay for it. But what am I saying? Among the ex-Socialist republics remains to share the basis of this conflict agreement and here are the people who know it best somewhere probably about 2 billion US dollars from which some 150 billion US dollars are waste on Croatia, I don't know, let's say 28% and the war damage they suffered primarily from these premises, so the Republic of Croatia, Bosnia and Herzegovina can be estimated at some 150 billion US dollars not counting 250 thousand dead in these areas, hundreds of thousands of wounded, destroyed economy, millions of refugees, etc. Finally, Croatia and we all know today in 2004 about some 83% or 4% of GDP from 89th, Bosnia may be at 35.40% of gross products from the 90th year, perhaps not as much as Serbia and so on. And finally all the penalties that will be imposed in The Hague must be taken into account that the peoples of these areas have been destroyed perspective. IDS I don't know what to say will raise the hand for this agreement to put an end to ex-Yugoslavia. To turn to the future, not forgetting clearly what was happening in these spaces from 91 to 95. And with the important role of the international community, it was not and could not prevent war. But still thank her for stopping further destruction in time. But the responsibility for the war is not on Bush or Kohl, but above all on Milosevic and his associates. There. So much for the ommes. The IDS will vote in favour of this agreement and would do so in 2001 when the conditions of the same defect were first shown to the Croatian public.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2869	I thank the esteemed representative, Damir Cain. On behalf of the SDP Club, the esteemed representative of Tonino Picula.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2870	Mr. Chairman, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. Let it be in a few mussels on behalf of the SDP Club and as a signator of the Framework Agreement on Success I signed in 2001 on 29 June. And I say a few sentences that are likely to shed more light on a kind and historical background where negotiations were held at the end and just signing. But a few sentences that I'd really like to give a few of my own impressions about the job. Who, in Vienna, subpsi represented in a way the end of one stage and as this shows for some late debate in the Croatian Parliament, only one stage in the finalisation of the whole process. First of all, it should be said that signing a Vienna deal was an act of signature in good faith. Because we really wanted to conclude to put an end to and on a failed historical project the disappearance of Yugoslavia and whose method of disappearance will still be a long-standing burden on relations in this part of Europe. The signature was possible thanks to the years of professional and persistent work of a non-large group of people who systematically feared the problem of succession and at a time when political and all other circumstances did not favour such work. I use the Croatian Parliament's pay phone to thank first of all Mr. Boza Marendic, who was always head of the government's office for the problems of succession and without whose work and associates it would really not be possible to bring this job to an end today. It was possible to sign the framework contract in 2002 and not before. For the simple reason that during the 1990s negotiations in the first half of the 90s and Croatia alongside Bosnia and Herzegovina was exposed to the open war aggression of Milosevic's regime, which in no way wanted to open negotiations on the succession, holding that the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia is not the only former SFRY but that there is nothing to say to that problem. Only the political changes in the country in late 2000 opened the premises of the Belgrade authorities to look the truth into their eyes and to accept the principle that actually 5 of the SFRJ followers have the full right to agree at the table not only the rights but also the obligations of the former common state. Sucession and concession negotiations are very complex and are practically at the level of the Dayton Peace Agreement. That is right, all those who say that it would not be possible without a strong intervention by the International Community that was more than a mediator there. Which did not only physically bring the party's followers to the negotiating table jingo has actually made it possible to finally follow the agreement. As I said at the beginning without lobbying on a favourable atmosphere in which negotiations were being completed in May 2001 we were confident that Vienna would only be a stage and not the end of that process. Unfortunately, it turned out to be precisely in the time that followed. Requesting negotiations are even more demanding to be implemented. And let me sort one thing out right here. The then foreign ministry within the government of the Republic of Croatia has already sent the text of an agreement to ratify the Croatian Parliament in October 2001. I did it myself. However, just a few days after the signing, a shortfall has been established from now on, five hundred and 89 million dollars, from the account of mixed banks of eight. Which were, of course, under the control of the National Bank of Yugoslavia and which, of course, balanced one amount that we could not establish after the work of one of the two Joint Committees on the Application of the Agreement on Succession was initiated by that Standing Committee on the Sharing of Financial Obligations. There was no other way but to delay the ratification process until we came to the truth about the money that was missing. I repeat once again here, the delay in ratification was at no time an obstruction of the process, because if it were so we would not have signed this agreement, but we wanted to send a very clear political message about our dissatisfaction with the findings after the signing. It was a matter of course and the credibility of the state, and we wanted to maintain the credibility of the process. I agree that we do not need to ratify the ratification debate only on the missing $589m, there is much in this framework period that has indeed rightly concluded the dispute on the legal and financial heritage of the former common state. He has also improved the atmosphere when negotiating many other open problems, but we also need to say something about the thoughts we have come up with over the past few years. Ratification certainly produces both legal and political and financial and psychological effects, and therefore it really needs to be concluded. However, a few sentences should also be said about things intrigued by the Croatian public at least I have been exposed to questions over the past few days. There was a lot of talk about keys but there are a few that have been used to share assets. The following were not expected and this was also stressed by international indirect Mr. Arthur Wotts almost all the time of the conversation, that the key to the allocation of funds remaining would be equal to the one founding the IMF debt. Normally, the IMF's key went by making debt disproportionately more likely to be borne by those who have a real chance of paying you back. Therefore, Slovenia and our country had a relatively high percentage of debt returns. Some additional criteria have also been taken into account for the share of the assets. For example. those who use the European Bank primarily the number of inhabitants, terrorism and other markings. But the payment of foreign exchanges to the then People's Bank of Yugoslavia. Contrary to the general belief, only a small part of Croatia has made payments to the people's bank of Yugoslavia compared to its foreign currency power. Already in signing documents on the distribution of funds in the bank for international alignments in the text, it has been said that compensation will be made in the ondos of BiH and Macedonia in the distribution of other funds, which was later made. Besides, the key to the podium is not the same for all the funds. He's different for sharing diplomatic and consular property abroad. It should be noted here that if the key to the division of the assets could be greater than what is scheduled for us to get, we could get between $10 million and $30 million. Our delegation, however, managed to push through the provision on the obligation to return all assets unlawfully lodged after the declaration of independence of the individual State. The issue of the Ljubljanska Banka is also open here. No matter how hard we try or not, and in public trying to try to separate the problem of the Ljubljanska Banka from this period after the signing of the Vienna Agreement, it really cannot be a successful job. The price of the Ljubljanska Banka is also followed by the story of ratification, i.e. the signing of the conflict agreement. The problem of the Ljubljanska Banka is unfortunately not finally solved by a conflict contract. This is, of course, not just about the Ljubljanska Banka, but about all the banks in the former SFRY area. During the whole negotiations, our delegation sought to resolve the return of foreign currency roles through the rights annex. Foreign deposits were explicitly predicted to be returned by the bank of headquarters. No discrimination against citizens about citizenship, residence and the like. In the last draft, this provision has indeed entered into the contract. On the last day, before the signing itself, the Slovenian delegation refused to accept such a clause. To join her with the delegation of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. The rest of the sequences, however, under great pressure, had to accept a delay in resolving this issue by adopting a provision for the subsequent intervention of the International Bank for Compensation to Basel. Of course, to solve this question again will require a consensus of all sequences. In an annex on acquired rights, there is, however, a provision that contracts must be respected, executed, which could include deposit agreements on the principle of non-discrimination. However, the provision to address guarantees through the bank for international alignment brings in yet one moment that complicates the whole procedure. There is certainly something to be said in this place about the problem of the missing amount of money, which has burdened the process after the signing. More practically by the end of last year, Belgrade has persistently refused to present documentation on when and in what way and in whose favour the reduced deposits of the National Bank of Yugoslavia are at the so-called so-called National Bank of Yugoslavia. mixed banks of $589 million. Which is the difference between $56 million and the number 645 from the contract signed. When asked why they presented incorrect data in Vienna, the answer is that they could not present it, I am talking about the exact data for allegedly imposed sanctions. Because the National Bank of Yugoslavia has been disabled from communicating with mixed banks based abroad. These were therefore available with the so-called so-called. historical accounting data from the first half of 1992. So only after the contract was signed were they able to obtain data on the real state of the deposit. This can very easily be challenged as an argument based on the fact that, if so, they could not present the data on the balance of deposits with other banks, I am talking about commercial banks, not mixed banks, at the end of March 2001, and in their accounts, there were some 307 million dollars at that time, and that amount of all 307 million dollars really appears as a complete and after signing unlike the balances in mixed bank accounts. Of course, this immediately raised various questions as to why correct data were not displayed. The answer to this question may be that the Yugoslav side wanted to display a distorted property, and in particular a financial legacy larger than the real one in order to perhaps reduce one sense of justifiable frustration, the dissatisfaction of all other countries due to participation in the distribution of only the rest of the assets at the time of the former state's collapse. Indeed, though, I agree that the question of ratification of this document is something that needs to be addressed whether it is and to what extent is missing in view of the observed shortcomings. I've already said that he has both psychological and political and economic effects. And it really closes one chapter and I believe it opens up a really slightly greater possibility for more relaxed relations in space, still unstable and traumatic European southeast, and certainly Croatia must contribute in this respect. However, Mr. Chairman, colleagues and fellow MPs, I have also been discussing on the home Committee on Foreign Policy a proposal that I repeat here before you, which is that, after or in parallel with the act of ratification of this Treaty, I have adopted a particular parliamentary role that would have been adopted by the Croatian Parliament confirming the framework agreement on matters of succession by the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the body responsible for monitoring the implementation of this treaty to continue with all the procedures before international legal and financial institutions in order to establish an effective state of affairs concerning the lack of funds determined after the signing in Vienna on 21 June 2001, this would not have been a precedent for such a parliamentary conclusion, first of all, to preserve one process that we started last year by opening a lawsuit against the Frankfurt RHB bank, and the ratification itself would have been a signal to the international community that Croatia would, and in this way, contribute to the stabilisation and economic and... Thank you. [[/the speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2871	I thank the esteemed representative of Toni's Piculi. On behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community, Mr Luka Bebic has a word on behalf of the Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2872	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. The Croatian Democratic Community, members of the HDZ, will support this bill, aware of all the problems they had conditioned that such a contract should be concluded, aware that it could have been achieved even more. And more could have been achieved by perhaps the fact that the contract was signed a little later, because after the contract was signed, it was published or found out that there was a $589m deficit, and that our country began the lawsuit process to trace those funds, if possible. We are also aware that we are the only other signatories who have not ratified this contract. That there is property, which in terms of money loses value, in terms of real estate may not, but we still need to get to these properties, the archives and everything that is the subject of this conflict contract. So no one can get to that property unless all the signatories are ratifying this agreement. There is probably also the property of former JNA and the like, which is likely to be spoken to by Col. Cosic, but everything in all of us is nothing but the rest, and to show both the desire and the will to be willing to ratify this treaty to turn one new page and agree with those who say that it is a political, primarily political issue and that it should be resolved. I also think and support those who suggest that a single conclusion be made here in the SAbor to continue with all those possible disputes at international institutions and so on in order to trace the assets we seek. And to reduce the damage to Croatia and the least possible measure. Because of all this, both the situation and the circumstances in which this contract was signed and that there was no government in Serbia-Montenegro that was ready to sign this contract earlier. We think we should support it and we'll vote for the adoption of this Sucession Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2873	I thank the esteemed representative, Luka Bebić. On behalf of HNSa PGSa, the esteemed representative Vesna Pusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2874	Mr Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the government, colleagues and colleagues. The solution that is ahead of us is a ratification of the conflict agreement is not fair, but in our opinion it is least harmful of all the solutions that are available to us for Croatia. It is not fair because it is obvious that, as practically all my colleagues have said before, it does not include those almost 600 million dollars, which have been identified or disappeared from the package that should be divided into a succession. It is also not fair because the different keys by which the assets are divided on the one hand by the assets on the other hand are deposits on the third side of the property. There are therefore different criteria for the succession to be carried out. But at the same time, the only thing weaker than that of an imperfect solution is to continue to be in this situation where the same amount of about 600 million dollars that Croatia could have with it is blocked because of the non-ratification of this agreement. And not only are we not able to cope with what has been alienated from the common heritage of countries that once made Yugoslavia, but we cannot have even what would be available to us by the ratification of this agreement. Not to mention that we can't even handle real estate abroad that we would even practically need from the point of view of diplomacy and any other activity. And the people involved in the affairs of international relations and foreign policy are very aware of that very problem. This ratification allows us not only to divide property or at least ongoa which is known from this property where it is but also to divide archives. So in a way, we're sort of doing our own identity, or our own basis for identifying what we've grown up through and what we have. The ratification of the contract does not prevent the use of all formal channels, and all legal opportunities to determine the fate of nearly 600 or 589 million dollars. Therefore, it does not prevent the continuation of all actions in accordance with the formal procedure and legislation that goes beyond the level of identification of that capital that has disappeared from the common heritage. It also allows for the resolution of many specific human fates that are related to the direct or indirect ratification of this agreement, including the pensions of people who used to work in the former federal organisms of the Yugoslav state, some of which are, like Vladimir Velebit or such as Mrs and Mr Biserko, some of which I would say the great diplomacy of the Croatians. People who made a huge contribution to Croatia's anti-fascist identity and the victory of anti-fascism in these areas. And who, in this context as well as in this context, are not able to survive practically because of unresolved relations related to the ratification of this Agreement. Finally, the ratification of this agreement demonstrates something that is very important for Croatia in this period of time and in each future situation, demonstrates Croatia's ability and then the ability of all countries in the region to solve their problems on their own, in other words to find their own strategies of exit from the conflict and unresolved situations in which they are located. Something that may be a fundamental qualification for the European profile of these countries. In this case, in the right order for Croatia's European profile, i.e. to achieve European standards both in international negotiations and in finding solutions in the region where Croatia should be able and must play a significant role, then it is certainly in its capacity to address the situation in the region and, if possible, to serve as a leader in defining how it relates to judges. For all of these reasons, the HNS and PGSA will support the decision to ratify the conflict agreement. And of course, it will also support the conclusion on the continuation of all procedures aimed at identifying these 600ths of millions of dollars that have disappeared from the common heritage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2875	I thank the distinguished representative Vesni Pusic. In the name of the HSS Club, the word has an esteemed representative of Ante Markov, please go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2876	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, as in bed and co-workers. Of course, this topic and the question of succession always raises a very interesting and cautious debate that is seen from the context of all those who have taken the word on behalf of clubs so far. Of course that's an important thing, if it didn't matter, it would probably have been solved before, probably wouldn't have been this sensitive material almost burning because the reasons and circumstances that have resulted in the fact that today is the day you're talking about confirmation you're not since yesterday, you're not from today. These circumstances are actually the reasons for those relations that existed in the former Yugoslavia. That is why it must also be seen that out of the five current states, four countries have agreed and have already ratified this agreement. Relations have also been transmitted to this agreement. Relations and circumstances in which Croatia, the Republic of Croatia was during Yugoslavia, have also been transferred to this agreement, and they have created reasons and consequences because this agreement has not been confirmed so far. Of course, Croatia, as an independent, sovereign and European country, wants first of all to solve all the circumstances in dialogue and this last legal relationship with the former SFRY in a way that retains two basic criteria or principles. The principle of political or state credibility, but also material credibility. These two principles disagree with each other and those of this debate arise. The issue of political credibility is more important for us at the HSS club and this was also the reason for such long negotiations that did not end up with the principle of political credibility being fully established. That is why, and knowing that the famous deficit was also created as a result of the signature that followed in 2001, because it was obviously not possible to achieve this result before, therefore it was deliberately hidden and appeared only when the signed agreement gives the right to do what was good in the process of creating circumstances and for confirming, before it was signed and that it was in the nature of things not the biggest problem. The greatest value is in real estates which, as pointed out, absolutely do not lose value, but clearly once it is necessary to solve them too. The second reason or other main problem resulting from the non-confirmation of this framework contract lies in the Ljubljanska Banka. It lies in fact the most sensitive part in terms of the Croatian public, Croatian citizens, which is that the debt of the Ljubljanska banka did not enter into this process of succession, that the Slovenian side expressed its opposition and thus challenged the possibility of legal arbitration and that the total of relations between the former countries, i.e. new countries, would be brought into one legal correctness. There are, of course, those who say that even after confirming that agreement, it will be easier to establish the parameters, conditions, criteria, to reach the necessary archives, to establish the credibility of the Slovenian side regarding the Ljubljanska Banka and create some new relations, of course, but in a legal sense, it will close the possibility that existed, which exists and is most realistic for the outcome of those real claims that our citizens have. We must therefore be aware that we must take this part of the risk contained in it and also part of the fact that, thanks to the way in which all participants are managed, Croatia is damaged in its own way. Of course, though, we are not in a position, nor are there any reason to make it even more difficult for all the circumstances that were and these new ones to come. Therefore, as a colleague said, heavy hearts and also wanting to support this proposal by fellow Picula, who should give additional efforts and initiatives in this regard, the HSS club will vote for this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2877	I would like to thank the esteemed representative of Anti Markov. The word on behalf of the HSP club has a respected representative, Ante Djapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2878	Mr. Vice President, gentlemen of the government. The Croatian party's law club has always paid great attention to the process of succession and now that we've come to an end one time it's just been a question of whether what can be changed. If we were in a position to possibly not ratify this contract, we could expect something in perspective, then we would absolutely be against ratification of this agreement. However, like all colleagues who spoke before our club and we are aware that where we are, in the same way that we have fought for the Croatian state where we have been treated in many situations by double criteria and double standards, it has been obvious and in the process of succession in which this process itself has been often held as an alternative to pressure on Croatia and trying to make this great desire for a definitive breakup in all relationships with the former state, and that means, among other things, a very important factor is a succession, that our wish in some way and abuse is in this particular way in order to identify various criteria, various pressures and I would say finally and homogenisedly to the other members of the countries that came from the former Yugoslavia, and we remain on the other side completely lonely practice of what he said just before his colleagues Markov, and our situation, which we had also in the former state. So that's another price we're paying as a state and as a people, I'd finally say that break with the former state. Surely when we emphasize these two things, we have this political financial absecction. In a political sense, we were always interested in ending the succession as soon as possible, but it was precisely for a thousand reasons that were spoken before me here, which we heard yesterday on the home Committee on Foreign Affairs, slowed down systematically and to the extent that it was also lied, it wasn't said what was in the succession, so we heard in the end that even that nearly 600 million dollars was in search of them. It was also a phenomenon and it was common to deal with the funds that entered the succession that should not be dealt with. But we knew, we know who we were dealing with. I would say more that this process of succession is also near-the-end and where I see that we don't have much choice and that we're obviously going to ratify it, that it's just another school, another experience more about how in the future we have to keep an eye on when we're trying to create something together, spend it together, work together, work together, etc. So it certainly wasn't easy for the office that worked on the succession, that they were in very unfavourable situations. We heard yesterday that there were blockages, two-year negotiations, that it did not move from a dead spot and I think that, with all the circumstances in which they were finally doing one job as good as he could, because he was ultimately determined by international relations which were systematically reflected and precisely in this important area and for the Croatian state. As a club, we particularly express our regret that there was no more work to be done around the Ljubljanska banka, about this 600 million dollars from it, somewhere around 22% was something like that, so somewhere around 100 million, and as I understood well on the Committee on Foreign Policy yesterday, however, the problem of the Ljubljanska Banka remains still an open issue, and that is perhaps what is the most problematic of us from this financial aspect. This is all that we have succeeded in these talks, agreements that were constantly under the patronate of the international community, i.e. big ones from the international community, we have done better than nothing, because we were 70 years as a country we were a milk cow, I hope that we will no longer be, that, by the end of the conflict with the Member States, the countries created in the area of the former Yugoslavia, end this story and, of course, to experience how they all acted in certain situations, especially this story from Vienna when we ended up being lonely as a country compared to other members, it must be a really good lesson for us, although stories about regional cooperation and all that will expect Croatian politics and society in the coming decades. So, even after the fact that the Croatian Party has made its final decision, the Croatian Party club will certainly support this Treaty, which is ultimately as unfair and unwarranted as it is for the Croatian state, but obviously we do not have much choice, and this political aspect, which is now in HSP, is very important in the decision that we vote for this Agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2879	I thank the esteemed representative of Anti Djapic. In the name of the SDS Club, the word has the esteemed representative Milorad Pupovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2880	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. If it had been for political courage, we would have had this Agreement, or this Treaty already ratified in accordance with the signature that the Ministers of Foreign Affairs and our Minister of Foreign Affairs put on this Treaty several years ago. However, circumstances are as political internal and external and we are now in a position to do so now and to ratify this Agreement as the last of the signatories in this House. It is not necessary to say that the fact that we did not do so at a time when the Treaty is signed but to do so today, not only is private persons, natural persons, but we are now in a situation where at least a part of it can be corrected, and that at least the damage this country can suffer in this respect can be corrected by adopting this procedure and then in accordance with the provisions of this Treaty, which has been negotiated in a long number of years, in circumstances which have not always been the most suitable for us to come up with something that can also be a political benefit for Croatia and of course the political benefit for those most directly concerned by this Treaty, and these are the numerous citizens and Croatian and the countries that follow the former Yugoslavia. Namely, one of the things that the ad hoc formed delegation of this Assembly met on its recent visit to the European Parliament was and there was a question of ratification of this Agreement, and in a joint statement prepared on that occasion, which in our opinion was very favourable for Croatia and very encouraging for Croatia, one of the things was the matter of a hasty ratification of this Agreement. And as for the SDS Club and us as representatives, we will support nature's acceptance, or adoption of this Treaty, but let me say a few words about the very text that may seem technical but actually not. First of all, as regards the interpretation itself in the introductory part of this material that we received in the interpretation of Annex G, which regulates private property and acquired rights in the last place, the fourth paragraph of that interpretation is said: "The view of tenancy rights has been found to be protected on a non-discriminatory basis in accordance with domestic legislation". There's the one who was doing this material that actually turned the order of things around. Annex G. point 6. Even in the translation that we have received and which is not so classically correct to the end is the following: "The domestic legislation of each country of the latter with regard to tenant rights will be applied equally", it would probably be better to say for the English equal, equally, probably to persons than to persons who were citizens of the SFRY and who had this right without discrimination. In other words, domestic legislation commits itself to respect the principle of non-discrimination not vice versa that domestic legislation will be the measure of things as can be suggested from this interpretation that is in the opening part of this material. And it would be good in that sense if it were not found there but to be in accordance with the spirit of point 6 of the Annex G. In other words, without discrimination on any basis such as sex, race, skin color, language, religion, political or other belief, national or social origin, membership of the national minority, property, birth or other position. This annex G, not only when it comes to household rights, but when it comes to a whole series of property issues, will remove the doubts that so far have burdened government bodies, ministries, competent government institutions and, of course, created confusion among people in the head. In many people, what was done in the agreement between the Prime Ministers and the SDSS on the return of assets, on the compensation of damages and on the settlement of the issue of housing rights created confusion. And it is quite clear from this Treaty of Succession that it is something that is an integral part of the obligations not only of Croatia but of all the countries that follow the former Yugoslavia. And that in this respect we, as well as other countries that have ratified this, will remove in this respect the confusion that exists in the head and which still exists in some people, whether in representative bodies, or in the institutions of the authorities or those concerned there is as some form of confusion that property or acquired rights or that housing rights should not be recognised in those who have a full legal basis for it. Here already Vice-President Dr Pusic spoke about what is important or what is the importance of this Treaty when it comes to pensions. Indeed many people, I find it hard to tell right now what number of people who have obtained the right to retire in one of the followers of the former common state and who are otherwise citizens of the Republic of Croatia and who because of the fact that this contract has not been sufficiently ratified seriously suffered huge damages, because they are receiving a pension that is absolutely inadequate in the conditions in which they live. In other words, they receive property as if they live in some place either in Bosnia or in Serbia and live in the circumstances of Zagreb or in some other Croatian environment where living circumstances and of course pensions are significantly different than in the countries I mentioned. And after this, no doubt our competent bodies, they're to me as well as Dr. Pusic here mentioned some names and some cases to me are known names of people who have been having a dispute for years, or having some kind of conversation with our competent authorities of the state administration such as the Mirovinski Fund or the Mirovinski Institute who have failed to resolve the question of how these people could get adequate property. After this, these people will have a legal basis for obtaining the property that all our citizens receive under the law. And the third thing is archives that are not of course mentioned here, but they have an extremely important weight from both political and research and of course from a human aspect. There are many people who, on this or that basis, are interested that Croatia not only gets the part of the archive that belongs to it but also that the competent authorities of the Croatian State, that individuals on a research basis or individuals as individuals as natural persons may have a smooth access to archives that have not been available until now or until this moment precisely because this question has either been partially resolved or there has been no basis to be resolved, and with this ratification agreement will be resolved. And for the sake of the fact, because of the fact that, rarely for political or any other reason, there is a lack of clear understanding of the issue of the relevance of accepting or recognising the property of private persons, I would take advantage of this opportunity and, for the sake of the general Croatian public and this Assembly, read at least one provision concerning it, which was signed by all other followers of the former Yugoslavia not so long after our minister, then Mr Picula signed this act, and we, after that, ratified it and followed it in their own legislation and in their own practice, which is Article 2 of this Treaty, which reads: “Right, rights to moving and immovable property which are located in some country in the following series to which the citizens or other legal persons of the SFJ were entitled on 31 December 1990, will be recognised and returned by that State in accordance with established standards and norms of international rights, regardless of nationality, nationality, residence or residence or person. I'm not going to read any further, but I could give a number of examples of practices from our courts where people three years and over are waiting for their property to be returned. Here they live, their property is used by people whose property in Bosnia and Herzegovina has been returned under this law and the law there, and they cannot learn into their own house. I say once again, although it is too late, but it is still on time not only for the interests of the state but for many people who are concerned with this, and therefore we will support this contract and of course we thank those who have worked on it for years and if these remarks that I have made, which I hope are not large, can be respected my gratitude will be greater. Thank you, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2881	I thank the esteemed representative, Milorad Pupavec. This is what we've concluded with the club debate. We're moving on to individual debates for 10 minutes. The word has a respected representative Krešimir Cosic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2882	Dear Mr. Vice President, certainly full of support for the agreement on the succession of the former state's assets for a number of reasons. For political pragmatism, for reasons that prove the Republic of Croatia's readiness to strengthen trust and cooperation in the region among the countries of the assets of the former Yugoslavia. Support to the agreement even when in this agreement or some aspects of the former state's assets we do not know enough or we do not know everything. I would allow myself to say a few words, given that for several years I have worked on the succession of an important part of the former state's assets relating to the conflict of military property. That military property is extremely complex, heterogeneous, and I would say what is a bit of a surprise value. The assets of the former state, military, were estimated at the level of certain European Union and United Nations expert groups would not believe 84 billion dollars. It's millions of dollars, but 80% of the former state's assets are military property. The confirmation of this expert judgment was given by experts from various European institutes such as Crest in Paris, then by the Royal United Service Institute in London as well as by many other experts. The assets of the former state military related to real estate have been successfully solved in the context of the concession project, since that part of the property located in the territory of the Republic of Croatia corresponds to the quota to which the Republic of Croatia is entitled in view of its participation in the creation of the total assets of the former state. However, it is surprising that one large part of this property related to weapons, military equipment as well as many other assets, has not been the subject of talks and negotiations over the past years for a number of reasons. I would say justifiable, pragmatic, political reasons because there was no and there was no point in insisting and talking, negotiating those elements of property that were most sensitive when results and progress in those elements that were so simple and obvious that we talked about here today. The share of assets belonging to weapons, military equipment and other infrastructures of the former state is estimated at around $50 billion, and the total claims of the Republic of Croatia should be about $10 billion. In both these and such circumstances, political pragmatism should be accepted, such an agreement should be accepted, but the opportunities it offers should be exploited. Through anex a), Article 4 is indeed possible in the future work of the Office for Succession to highlight, highlight, but it is not realistic to expect that anything will be practically realised. It should be noted and warned that for no reason in 1991, the former army was not declared one of the strongest in Europe. Yeah, it was because of the structure of the budget, it was because of the number of planes, tanks, navy and so on. These days, we're talking about the Department of Defense budget that fell by 700 million kuna. Exceptionally, in conditions where the Croatian Navy does not have funds or financial resources, and especially material ones, so that it can conduct all its tasks. Part of this valuable property was, which today Croatia does not have, and part of the former state's joint assets. Certainly, one must not forget an important fact when it comes to the property. The military industrial complex of the former state was concentrated over 80% in Serbia and Bosnia and Herzegovina. A very small or insignificant part in the Republic of Croatia. Remember that in 1988, the economic system was able to export nearly $3 billion, exports of $3 billion was higher, but revenues from the former state's tourism as a whole. It's also property belonging to the succession of the former state. Project and other technological documentation, complete... institutes, particularly military technical institute, which was the main institution of the former state and all of this warns of a major dimension belonging to the former state's property. This must not be forgotten, it must not be forgotten for a number of reasons, because Croatian people, Croatian citizens, have been singled out for decades to build the whole system. Also, here's a small example, today Croatian planes are driving to Romania for a remont, and once the repair office here in Zagreb, Gorica was one of the most powerful regional remonting institutions. In 1991... the institutions took all the equipment, the lab, the system was incapacitated, and that's the same question that belongs to the former state's property. For all those reasons, I will not specifically repeat and highlight, all that is said here is to be accepted in a given form. But the future work of the Succession Office should also take account of all these issues, of their complexity, importance and importance that they can have, not only in political terms, but also in any other respect, because of their financial amount. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2883	Thank you. Honored representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2884	Thank you, Mr. President, honourable government representatives, colleagues and fellow MPs. I think that first of all I really need here to highlight the efforts of the former authorities, which is what seems to me, however, achieved what was most likely and realistic in these possibilities. Discuss now and ask again here now when ratifying the question, whether something more could have been achieved in that contract, whether it should have been done before, I think it is still too late to talk about it, or that it is not the essence of this debate, but that precisely given that the contract creates and obligations and rights to concentrate on how to make this contract as effective as possible, because don't worry about all those who have claims versus us will be quite up-to-date and zealous and it is their right to achieve, therefore their rights and claims. Now the question is, how effective and persistent we will be to achieve those rights that we managed to fight right at the conclusion and hope to ratify this conflict treaty. There is no doubt as it has been pointed out here that there are far-reaching political consequences, but it also speaks of it, talking about the exercise of individual rights, but also about the state itself and its interests. There is no doubt that this agreement will also encourage our institutions primarily judicial bodies, even where they were reluctant to face concrete demands. However, it should be pointed out precisely that part of Annex C which speaks of financial, financial and liability assets. Because that's exactly what's still left undefined in terms of how specific this property is, that's how many of these financial assets there are, or how many of them it was so that it could achieve its share of the agreement that belongs to us. There should also establish some effective mechanisms but also controls, in order not to set up some unrealistic expectations, and then have more damage, because, of course, these are procedures that are both long-term and expensive, so there we must clearly evaluate it, but just as the SDP Club has suggested in its conclusion, we always have one control mechanism as effective as we are in the exercise of our rights. Because you know what's gonna happen. I say once again, I say, others are very zealous, and besides that, they have a rule of claim against us which are not hidden somehow or less transparent property, but which are very concrete and which are being realised not, but now and which can be realised not only through this contract on the matter of succession, but through our domestic right before regular courts in front of our administrative bodies. Therefore, we are, we must make an additional effort to realise and realise our claims and our rights. We will only do so if I say we work through other mechanisms, including other laws on the effectiveness of our institutions. But also to establish the efficiency of the mechanism in such control as we were effective, or zealous. Because the truth and that, and that's what we were talking about here, and maybe it's a chance to quote an English historian, who said well, "that one nation can cause another an accident, but that the humiliation bears its own responsibility." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2885	Thank you. Dear Representative Ivo Josipovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2886	Mr. President, fellow MPs. In any case, I, of course, support the adoption of this law. I'd like to point to some, some questions that may not be sufficiently highlighted. First of all, I think that, over the longer term, our public opinion is fed that at the end of the succession in Croatia, a huge amount of money will come from that succession. I think that illusion should be removed. In the succession Croatia has, of course, a demand item, but it also has a debt item, and when these two things are summed up, some result will come that I'm not sure I have exactly the exact assessment of what that means. Secondly, what I would point out is that other than this state succession behind this whole process of disunity, there are countless human fates and accidents of people who in no way have blamed the war, nor have done any harm to others, and where these people are citizens of different countries, but in this post-communication I think that the bodies of the Republic of Croatia must take care of all their citizens, some have been killed so that they were in engaged areas, some have served in today's neighbouring countries, so unfortunately here we have heard bad news in some personal rights I would say to the fundamental rights they have and I think that the state bodies would have to take care of that. And yet, I don't know, I've heard on the Legislative Committee that there's an interpretative statement, I haven't noticed, I may have made a mistake, that the government has introduced this procedure, but in any case I think it should be accepted, this interpretative clause which it has made seem to me to be a respected expert, Professor Degan, giving a certain fence, especially with regard to the interpretation of this darkened property in the process of succession, and I think it's a good idea for it to be accepted in the Croatian Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2887	Thank you. We still have a final debate on behalf of the HSP Club for five minutes. Honorable representative of Slaven Letica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2888	Although maybe we're not aware of it, it's still a solemn moment and that's why I have a personal obligation and I'm glad to have the opportunity to say on behalf of the HSP Club that we're going to support this final act of divorce with the former state. This lawsuit, as you know, was difficult, cruel, bloody, and this step of some apathy and indifference testifies to the fact that the process was very difficult. As for this act itself, we should again congratulate the Government of Ivo Sanader on real political wisdom, regardless of what some people will say, but while we should be realistically politically also wise to conclude that the death of the former Yugoslavia means whether we or not start a more serious implementation of the Stabilisation and Association Pact project and the creation of some kind of Western Balkan customs, economic, circulation or other union. Today we have seen the news, the European Commission has shown itself and has said that it has not yet taken a stand according to Croatia's request for full membership in the European Union. So, I'd like to take this opportunity or take this opportunity to suggest a few things on behalf of the club. The first is to define the principle of good neighbouring policies with countries as well as the zero tolerance policy in relation to attempts to revise Croatian history. About this policy, Dr Mirjana Kasapovic wrote in her latest Globe, and this should be taken as a theoretical form for the transfer and cultivation of rights and culture of multiple memories of Croatian citizens for a newer history. Second, to commit to the government to report to the Parliament and develop a programme of further actions to implement this Treaty of Succession. I hope that some rooms will be emptied so that the HSP Club will get a chance to be treated here as a partner and not a tenant. The third proposal to update the case for the genocide of the Republic of Croatia against the former Yugoslavia before the court of justice in The Hague and to start working more seriously on the project of repatriation of war damage. And finally lastly to be optimistic, the proposal to use this opportunity to adopt a presidential statement that would welcome public statements by Milan Kucan and Minister Grisold on the necessity and urgency of the demilitarisation of St. Gera. I'm in touch and you'll all be invited to accompany the apples of Slovenian soldiers from our army. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2889	Thank you. Does the promoter particularly want to look back? Yeah. The head of Mr Bozo Marendić's project implementation office. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2890	Mr. President of the Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the House of Representatives! It's been a long time since I've had such an opportunity and honor, and I've been listening for almost two hours to matter from the others I know best. I'm just surprised with how much seriousness, with how much spirit, with how much expertise there has been today's debate. That says you don't get me wrong that we can trust our Parliament. There were questions, there were interpretations, there were suggestions that didn't stand. There were questions to which there were answers but it took a little more time, a little more concentration to find it. There's been an interpretation of the wrong, there's been an interpretation in that sense of what suits me, so I'm going to figure out this part. I, ladies and gentlemen, really have no idea that I am discussing this individually right now, especially after the general impression is very, very satisfying. No matter who will lead this project in Croatia in the future, in which way it will be organised, you have given a number of very good instructions today. How, in what way, what to look after, with whom? You have no idea how important that is to those who do such jobs. It's bad business. They're in one way professional, looking for high expertise. To do this job means to know the history of society, political, economic Yugoslavia from 1917 to today with so many changes, etc. There's a lot to know. And at the end of the line, there should be experience that is especially always from negotiation. However, the project of this kind has its own political rocks, has its own dangers, etc. I particularly like the fact that during today's debate the Parliament managed to pass very successfully certain rocks that could have stopped that ship, I don't think the Parliament would have ratified it but would have discussed and discussed and lost its uniqueness, would have lost its homogeneity, which is particularly important. One note. This text English is original. He can't change. He accepts himself as he is. The authors and head of the negotiations, Mr Watts, predicted that it would not be equally understood and interpreted by certain provisions. I have noticed two, three cases of this type today and a special mechanism is envisaged to balance the interpretation of the agreement. I won't mention what things I've noticed need reinterpretation or interpretation, but in any case, the team that's working on it will have to approach it. Today I also draw one conclusion for a future that is important, and that is, to be much more placed, to communicate with the public. Although the Office for.../ The speaker doesn't get around. He didn't refuse any journalists to give him an interview or information. You won't find a single man who sent a letter without getting an answer and you won't find a man who phoned and didn't get an answer. A man would say in that case that the Office is not responsible for the level of information of the public and now I see in fact that this office has failed and that in the future it needs much more, much more often, different information to the public about its work and problems. In the end, there's only one thing I won't agree with, today that's highlighted in the debate, I mean, there are things that I don't agree with, but I'm only going to say one thing that I don't agree with. I really think what's been done about stopping the ratification process. And why is this done and how has time been spent since then? If Croatia had lost nothing, Croatia had only won, Croatia had thus defended the dignity of a large complex project because the project would have never been completed, indeed under the password written in the preamble of the agreement, which is good faith, this agreement should end in good faith for the future and for the development of good neighbourly relations. We are in the event that suddenly those six hundred and a million about million disappeared, first of all, that one of the participants and the responsible had a figure in his pocket and thus questioned with dignity, intent, put into question faith in the future. We have primarily reacted in defense of dignity, project, the dignity of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the interest of this country. I don't think we've lost anything, but the other way around, Croatia has won. If it's leaked which, a few dollars, and I don't think it's in the meantime, if any bricks or logs fell off the embassy, I think we'll be able to fix it easily. At the end of the day, ladies and gentlemen, I really thank you... explicitly commending the office and the people working on the project, and it will certainly be understood as a right of support for future work that is not small and will take a lot more, a lot of trouble. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2891	I thank Mr. Marendic. I'm closing the debate. Sixthly, the Final Proposal for the Law on Confirmation of the Treaty on Succession Affairs, an emergency procedure. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? Thank you. I find that, with 99 votes for and 2 abstentions, the Law on the Confirmation of the Treaty on Sucession Issues in the text has been adopted as proposed by the Proposer. In line with the SDP's proposal, I am voting on the next conclusion. The Croatian Parliament, confirming the Treaty on Succession issues, obliges the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the bodies responsible for monitoring the implementation of the contract to continue with all procedures initiated before international legal and financial institutions in order to establish the factual state of the succession property and to protect the interests of the Republic of Croatia and domestic and natural and legal persons. Special attention will be paid to the lack of funds, the reduced deposits of the National Bank of Yugoslavia in the so-called so-called so-called National Bank of Yugoslavia. mixed banks established after the signing of the contract in Vienna on 29 June 2001. Who's in favour of this proposal's conclusion? Thank you. Against? Restraint? I find that with 99 votes in favour, 2 abstentions were reached in the text.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2893	Here, this last one that wanted to give in to the new power. No, it's not true. The medical committees that started working now were formed, and now you're changing the law and orders, and that's the second correction of the incorrect quote you give to those same doctors on the committees to handle certain cases positively. You may be new, so you don't know what's going on at the Board behind the defender's where a warrant was given to put all the negative solutions in the drawer and to return to the doctors with a warrant to assess it positively now, including the defender who attacked the clerk at the Ministry, I must say that this has never happened in the Ministry of the Croatian Defence. The minister promised him, at least it was done by the journalists, that her status would be resolved positively.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2894	Dear Madam Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. In a few, however, I'm going to change what I was about to say to you right now with the last debates we've heard here. Here it is said, and this leads to a thorough and doubtful fundamental reason why these amendments to the law are being passed. That ideology should not be in play when it comes to defenders that I could certainly agree with. But what I can't agree with is that it's in the name of removing ideology from these amendments to the law and the way that some of the colleagues here interpret and defend actually introduces ideology on a large door to a single question that should be ideological or above ideological. If we have a law in which there is not a single number in reason other than 105 million kuna in 3 years, if we do not say a word of how many people have been translated, how many are left, and if, as the only reason remains, what we hear here is to prevent this law from being demeaning and offensive as the experience is said, the humiliating procedures of continuous reviewing acquired rights are and the users are then on.../ The speaker went off and turned it back on.... it's not a good way. What is unfortunately suggested by this law? He wants to suggest that there were some who were defending rights, who humiliated the defenders, who were working against the interests of Croatian defenders and that there are others who correct these injustices and those humiliations. Noding your head to confirm that this is the intention and intention of this law. If so, we are on a very bad path when it comes to protecting the integrity of these same defenders in whose name is spoken and protected by the rights of these people. As a Croatian defender, I unfortunately had opportunities even in the time of the Homeland War to listen that for example my brigade, 120 brigades of red measures and attempts to share ideologically Croatian defenders. And that story and those attempts at division keep going on and on. Do you think gentlemen that England would be a victory force if English soldiers were divided into laborists and conservatives, liters? Do you really think we used to share ourselves as ideological defenders at the time? And to whom it is finally regretted in Croatia that for the first time in the time of the Homeland War, unideologically we were all together on the same side. 92% of Croatian citizens have declared Croatia independence and this independence has been defended and this independence has been defended by gentlemen... [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2895	They would now return only briefly to one of the government's short points before elections and appointments. 4. Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and Australia on Social Insurance, with the Final Proposal of the Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading of P.Z. No. 26 The legislator is the Government. When establishing the agenda, we accepted the emergency procedure. You received the proposal by mail. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislative Affairs, Labour, Social Policy and Health and the Committee on Immigration. You received the reports at the session. Does the State Secretary at the Ministry of Labour and Entrepreneurship, Mrs Vera Babic, want to further explain the proposal? He doesn't want to. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? President of the Committee on Immigration Mrs Zdenka Babić-Petricevic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2896	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, the Committee on Immigration of the Croatian Parliament discussed at its first session on February 24th of this year the proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and Australia on Social Security with the Final Proposal for a Law submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Government of the Republic of Croatia in an act of 12 February this year. The Committee discussed this proposal on the basis of its competence as set out in Article 79 of the Law. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament as a parent working body. This law regulates pension and disability insurance rights and child benefits. As a representative of the legislator, this bill was followed by a discussion of committee members who raised a number of questions on which the bill does not give an answer expected by pensioners, returnees from Australia. This contract does not cover health insurance, since the Australian side allegedly did not agree to this by expressing its opposition that Australia is made up of federal states that have independence in health insurance regulation. Currently, the Republic of Croatia sends pensions to Australia for 300 thousand pensioners for 300 thousand pensioners earned in the Republic of Croatia and in the Republic of Croatia there are 1216 users of Australian pensions. The Croatian Contractor has not made any cost analysis that will eventually be found out that the Republic of Croatia has among 150 thousand emigrant Croats certainly far greater numbers of those who will eventually ask the Republic of Croatia for part of their pension that they have earned in the Republic of Croatia. An outflow of resources could be far greater than all the inflows of returnees from Australia. The proposal suggests that Croatia will be subject to unsustainable financial obligations under this law because, in the assessment, the source of the necessary means to implement the law first says that the implementation of this law does not require further allocation of specific financial resources from the state budget and then adds it. It is not possible to estimate the number of insurance undertakings that will achieve pensions or pensions based on personal insurance incomes. Therefore, the amount of funds needed cannot be determined in advance. The Committee, however, assessed this legislative proposal as a positive step forward. Because applying the principle of equal standing will be no matter where pension applications will be submitted. The Committee holds a positive and principle of recruitment, insurance training in Croatia and residence in Australia. The Committee, however, expects the government to request the opinion and the Committee on Immigration in due time on issues relating to Croatian emigrants and returnees. Namely, the government began negotiations in 1998 in March 2003 and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs sent only one note to the Immigration Committee in April 2003 to which we unfortunately responded late. After the debate, the Committee unanimously proposed to the Croatian Parliament to pass the Law on the confirmation of contracts between the Republic of Croatia and Australia, on social security with the Final Bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2897	I thank the Committee's presidents, Mrs Babic-Petricevic. Do the other committee rapporteurs want to file a report? They don't want to. I'm opening a debate. I'm opening a hearing. No reports have been filed. I'm closing the hearing. Now let's go, please. Here you go, board president. The president of the board. On behalf of the club, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2898	Mr. President, respected colleagues and colleagues have somehow become almost commonplace to ratify such agreements without any debates. And I believe that, of course, there is nothing too controversial about this agreement, with even respecting the allegations we heard in the immigration committee's report. I don't think that it's disputed simply because every country and every legal order of each country is so specific that you can actually, by applying certain principles, seek to agree on those issues that are common to common touch points. What seems important to me is when it comes to an agreement with Australia with this social security agreement. It's lying in something that reminded me maybe a dozen e-mails that I got from Australia last year. In which the list expressed great satisfaction that after 5 years of negotiations, seeking a solution to ensure that two incompatible retirement insurance meetings are still located somewhere, and that they are primarily for our citizens because this is more of Croatia's interest than Austria has signed one such agreement. But more than anything, the message or those letters would like to see this as a kind of pledoies that es business at the signing and conclusion of the social insurance contract speeds up and continues as soon as possible. At this point, Croatia has signed only 14 social insurance contracts. Of which, eight such agreements were concluded in the past government's mandate, 6 countries have completed negotiations, and negotiations are under way for the two countries and 7 have initiated the procedure. As in these e - mails, our expatriates strongly advocated and thanked, in fact, for the work done, the same goes for our emigrants in New Zealand. It is the same for those in Chile, Argentina, with whom we have initiated the procedure but also for those in the United States who have already rejected us twice by claiming that it is not their interest. The signing of one such social agreement. It's a contract. So, I want to support, of course, the contract we're ratifying today in our Parliament. Considering this contract and specifically contracts with overseas countries with our great diaspora of particular importance and importance to the state-run Croatians. And the fact itself is 1019 pensioners from Australia. And four times less than 304 pensioners in Australia say I can expect it to be a trend in the future. The link between the diaspora, especially when it comes to the Croatian diaspora, is strong towards the homeland, says that these people have the will and desire to return and make and in the old days to their country, but that means that this is also the way that the issue should be seen in the context of the general demographic problems with which we will be sure as a country. And that the problem of the depopulation of Croatia can be solved not only by the most intelligent policy but also by taking care that the vast Croatian diaspora, we are one of the people who has one of the largest diaspora in the world, has an interest in returning to their country. Among which, of course, the existence of such an agreement and such a contract have enjoined the son of quanton that it is realised and that people are not damaged by their rights. Here's simply wanting to underline the importance of these contracts and that they don't pass past us. I would also like to make sure that I make a commitment to the new government by all of us to sign these contracts as soon as possible and as fully as possible with the rest of the countries where the procedure has been initiated. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2899	I thank Mr. Representative Davorko Vidovic. I'm closing the debate. Second. The final proposal for the confirmation of the contract between the Republic of Croatia and Australia on social security, an emergency procedure. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Abstained? I note that with 100 votes, the Law on the Confirmation of Contracts between the Republic of Croatia and Australia on Social Insurance in the text was unanimously adopted, as proposed by the Proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2902	Thank you very much, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. We will start from the first proposal for a decision to resolve the election of president and execute on the election of a member of the Committee for Justice of the Croatian Parliament. The committee's proposal for election and appointment is next. The chairman of the Justice Committee of the Croatian Parliament, Emil Tomljanovic, is hereby dismissed on a personal request. Rade Ivas is elected president of the Justice Committee of the Croatian Parliament. Point 2 is resolved as a member of the Board of Justice of the Croatian Parliament Branimir Glavas and is elected as a member of the Committee for Justice.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2903	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. It shall put forward a vote on the proposal for this Decision on the discharge of the presidents of the Committee and of the members of the Committee and on the appointment and selection of a new member of the Committee. Who's in favour of this proposal. Thank you. Against. Thank you. Abstained. Thank you very much. I find that, unanimously with 112 votes, the chairman of the Justice Committee is represented by Emil Tomljanovic on a personal request. That Mr. Rade Ivas was elected president of the Justice Committee. DESCRIPTION of the duties of Justice Committee member Branimir Glavas and elected member of this committee, Representative Emil Tomljanović.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2904	Proposal for a decision on the resolution and selection of members of the Board of Justice of the Croatian Parliament. The duties of member of the Committee of Justice of the Croatian Parliament, Mrs Ana Lovrin, shall be settled. Point 2, Mr Branimir Pasecki is elected member of the Justice Committee of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2905	Thank you. I'm opening the debate. I hereby put this proposal to the vote. Who's up for this proposal? Thank you. Against? Abstained? I find that, unanimously with 115 votes, a member of the Justice Committee, Ana Lovrin, has been relieved and elected to be a member of the same committee, Agent Branimir Pasecky. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2906	Proposal for a decision on the resolution and selection of members of the Committee on Immigration of the Croatian Parliament. The responsibilities of the member of the Committee on Immigration of the Croatian Assembly Mrs Ana Lovrin and Mrs Bozica Šolić is elected as a member of the Committee on Immigration of the Croatian Assembly.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2907	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing up. I am voting on this proposal. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Abstained? I note that 118 votes have unanimously relieved members of the Committee on Immigration of Representatives Ana Lovrin, and elected representative Bozica Šolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2908	Proposal for a decision on the appointment of the members of the Committee for the award of the State Prize of Technical Culture “Faust Vrančić”. As a member of the Committee for the award of the State Prize of Technical Culture “Faust Vrančić” is named Katarina Fuček a member of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2909	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on this proposal. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Abstained? I find that representative Katarina Fuček has been voted unanimously with 119 votes as a member of this committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2910	Proposal for a decision on the appointment of members of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system of the Croatian Parliament. In the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system of the Croatian Parliament, it is proposed that they be appointed as members of the public, scientific and professional staff of Prof. Dr. Branko Smerdel, Prof. Dr. Miomir Matulović, Prof. Dr. Hello Tomac, Dr. Millian Sesar, Prof. Dr. Davor Krapac, Mr. Ivan Marian, Otherwise, six members of the public, scientific and professional staff are appointed to this Board of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2911	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, the respected representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2912	Dear Mr. President, the work of this assembly has not begun particularly happily from the point of view of respecting democratic standards. First of all, I'm thinking about your procedure when you made it impossible for the SDP's club to deliver its opinion. But what happened last night at a meeting of the Committee on Elections and Appointments falls into the most harsh, most recent examples of abandonment of all and even the most minimal democratic standards. Not only are they not respected by the opinion of representatives who have been invited to present their proposals but also by the right of the board to propose people who should assist them in the work of those committees. Therefore, the SDP club is now looking for a half-hour break to discuss this issue and decide how to continue to participate in this agenda.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2913	Thank you very much. Ms. Representative Ljubica Lalic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2914	Thank you, Mr. President. So here's a sequence of what happened last night on the board that seemed to me happened to be a precedent where parliamentary democracy was hit and we're looking for a half-hour break.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2915	Thank you very much. Dear Captain Miroslav Rožic. Please, peace.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2916	Mr. President of the HSP Club is also looking for a break within these half-hours of course, so that colleagues don't think that's what's going on around me.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2917	Okay. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2918	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. Since I'm also a member of this board and I also had an opinion set out in front of the HNS and PGS clubs, I'd like to say a few words. I was deeply convinced that the goal, that the intensity of the external members is to put them into the system of our committees to raise the level of quality, to contribute to the expertise and to make it clear that the more quality we are dealing with all the issues that are in the care of our committees and this House. Unfortunately, yesterday night, we had the opportunity to actually just do the voting technique. The board president gave a list of names, we could suggest a change of a few names, but basically the power of numbers was such that the arguments of the profession, the arguments of science were not accepted. We didn't make it between a scientific advisor and a scientific associate last night. We didn't go between academic painters and art critics yesterday. We didn't figure out who did what yesterday. We didn't get a chance yesterday to get a paternity check on those names we had ahead of us. So I can't just join in thinking about other clubs to take a break here and actually see how and how. I don't see my place on this board if we're going to work this way for four years. I really can't say, I have to be objective, that part of the proposal that Mr. Glavas made, it's about excellent people, but clearly we weren't principled, we could have clearly chosen better amongst the offered ones in many other places, we didn't. We made a mistake and I'm definitely joining in to take a break here and see how it goes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2919	Thank you. Honorable representative Jozo Radosh.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2920	Mr. President, for reasons listed by fellow club representatives and the Club of Representatives, LIBRE is seeking a half-hour break.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2921	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative Luka Bebić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2922	On behalf of the HDZ Club, we're also looking for a half-hour break. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2923	A fellow representative of Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2924	And the IDS club is looking for a break of at least half an hour to get to know what happened on the board last night, and certainly they wouldn't mind if we had a break by 9:30 tomorrow, and Furio Radin has special reasons to honor us... [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2925	Are you looking for a fellow break from half an hour on behalf of your club? Are you looking for a break on behalf of your club? Are you looking for a break? Comrade Cain, please, do you seek a break in the name of your clan?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2926	Sure.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2927	Thank you very much. Are there any more clubs? A fellow Czecho.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2928	I'm looking for a break in my name and Gjurje, we'll deal in 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2929	Okay. Is there another club looking for a break? Mr. President, if you'll excuse me, but just before we take a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2930	To keep this House informed, nothing happened last night. The selection and appointment committee... Please, Mr. President, would you allow me to say a few words? Nothing happened, the selection and appointment committee worked and held its session in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. Apparently, individuals forgot that elections took place at the end of November and lost in those elections.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2931	Here you go, fellow Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2932	Mr. President, there are a few clubs here asking for a break. Despite this, instead of declaring a break, you continue with the agenda point and allow the Proposer to speak. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2933	My colleague, Stazić, I do not need to teach you that you need to specify which provision of the Rules of Procedure is injured if you are looking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Secondly, I gave my word to the President of the Committee I am not required to day automatically at the same time as the President of the Parliament to pause immediately as requested. Now I'm setting a 30-minute break. Ladies and gentlemen, let's get back to work. Please represent the SDP Club... Here you go, fellow Stazic. Please, peace. Here you go, fellow Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2935	Prime Minister Sanader stood up for good parliamentary practice this morning in the adoption of the budget. We are wondering why the good parliamentary practice has not been maintained and in the process of selecting the outside members of the Committee? And why is good parliamentary practice and democratic standards seriously disrupted for no reason visible in this assembly? Let's start with facts. The selection committee was called in for yesterday at 6:00 p.m. It was held without the presence of journalists. Unfortunately, too bad. Too bad there weren't any reporters because we'd have something to see. I invite them to the future...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2936	My colleague Kramarić, please do not throw it to the representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2937	...I invite them to follow closely the work of this Committee in the future, and I guarantee that they will have quite certain quality and long articles. In the process of this appointment, the committees did not have the opportunity to decide. Not even a proposal to the Committee for the selection of appointments which people, in the opinion of the Committee, would be the best quality to assist the Committee in its work? In this respect, we do not question, at all, the right of the majority that the HDZ and the parliamentary majority have in each of the Committee to have an important impact on the composition of the Committee's members. But at least all the other members of the Committee from other parties would have the opportunity to take a good look at all the proposals received, all the candidacys and then, in one democratic debate, to come to the best solutions and then to refer such solutions to the Committee for the selection of appointments to operate them and to refer them here to the Assembly. That didn't happen. The committees don't have that chance. Yesterday, the Committee on Elections and Appointments voted in favour of that proposal which the Committee president has called every time systematically with each proposal, this is a proposal for a relative or absolute majority. The parties received a call. They've been invited to point out their candidacy, and that's a special cynicism. This shows all the undemocratic nature of the leadership of this election and appointment committee. The parties were invited to propose candidates and they did, the parties held consultations with respected people, experts who could assist in the work of the Committee and who later sent their life reports so that we could highlight those candidates. They weren't even considered. They weren't even considered. It's not just a party injury in this House. It's a violation of those citizens who have elected representatives in this House. He doesn't hold on to their opinion at all. So, on the one hand, the full outage of a part of the citizens, on the other hand, is the full dunging of the committees themselves. Well, that's an insult to this entire Parliament. These committees must work in quality because this is in the general national interest and it is not doubtful whether the parliamentary majority will play a decisive role in the composition of these committees but rather whether they are the most qualitatively possible. The possibility of running also had associations independent of representatives' clubs, but what, what? Those like the chairman of the Committee who decided to participate. So the President of the Parliament has decided which associations between the many associations will have the possibility and the right to run for representatives of the Committee. At the end of the session of the Committee, we asked SDP representatives and HNS representatives for a separate opinion. We have not found it here in these materials, although we have the right to do so in the report of the Committee of Outstanding Opinions, because the president of the Committee does not think that it is particularly important that individual representatives have a separate opinion which they have the right to say, they have the right to have it recorded here in the report and read here. All this suggests that parliament, the leadership of parliament, HDZ does not care about the normal and necessary forms of co-operation in this high home in the interest of all citizens of this country. Senior MPs tell me that such non-democratic practices were not in all of the parliament's meetings in which the parliament had most of them until 2000. Even then, such non-democratic practices were not how we now see, unfortunately, at the very beginning of this call. Because of all this, we think it would be wise to stop here with these appointments. Let's do it again. To return the matter to committees and find the best, best possible solutions, instruct them again to the Committee for the Selection of Appoints and to appoint outside members of the Committee in a more tolerant and democratic atmosphere more appropriate. We're not going to discuss all the names here. There are high-quality honest people in these proposals, and we wouldn't want to offend them. We are here to protest procedures, not names, and especially not all the names that appear here. But because of this procedure, because of the procedure that was conducted here, the SDP Club will remain in the hall, but it will not be declared as proposed candidates. and just one more sentence on the election results. No result of the election doesn't give the electoral winner the right to wage violence against democracy in this House, that's the SDP's opinion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2938	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect quote, wait. Correction of an incorrect quote you had first. Here you go. Branimir, correction of the incorrect allegations as a representative, on behalf of the Committee, you will receive when the time comes. You can't, then you will, you will get as much as you can by the Rules of Procedure. The board will get your word on behalf of the Committee when the clubs are finished.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2939	Short and clear. My colleague, I'm going to run a shame on you. You've brought forth a bunch of lies, a bunch of lies, not to tell a lie. I'm running out of time to answer that.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2940	On behalf of the HSS Club, a respected representative or respected representative. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, colleague Stazic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2941	Mr. President-in-Office of the Parliament. I made the SDP Club stand. I've had an insult without your reaction. You're breaking the Rules of Procedure again. Give counsel to Glavas a warning about insulting another representative, because he has no right to the entire club. Give him a warning, or we'll think you agree with what he said.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2942	Comrade Stazic, I have not responded to your valuable courts and qualifications of the leadership of the Assembly and the leadership of the HDZ. It's your democratic right to expose them. But it's a democratic right and another to respond to such qualifications. What you have said falls within the same rank as you have been returned. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the HSS, Honored Representative of the Club, Zlatko Tomcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2943	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. I don't think there's anything in the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament that writes by chance, so neither the article 54 that regulates that individual working bodies can either occasionally or permanently in their composition have scientific, professional, public employees. This must have proved to be one of the needs of years of practice in this House, that, in addition to parliamentary representatives in the creation at the end of the material, and the preparation of plenary sessions, people who specialize particularly in the recognition of people in their professions are involved. I personally believe that the doubt that arises over an authorised promoter, that this doubt simply does not exist. There is no very simple reason why, as I understand it, as I understand Article 54(2), which says, scientific professional public workers appointed to the Committee, so that 11 committees have all the rights of a member of a working body, all the rights of a member of a working body other than the right to decide. So, these people who come as experts, as scientists, as public workers, of course they have to have some rights to discuss, their contributions, their materials are taken seriously, so that they can contribute to this Parliament's work. If this is so, if these are people who have the same rights as members of individual working bodies from the ranks of MPs, then it is very normal for me, logically that their choice is done in a similar way, although at this point we do not define that part in the Rules of Procedure, in a similar way as the distribution or selection of committee members from the ranks of MPs. If it had been known at first that this whole process would be conducted, probably we in clubs would not have accepted that in a certain way we bring serious people, scientists, public workers, etc. In some way, we're demeaning them. On February 3rd, we received a letter from the president of the Election Committee asking clubs to make proposals. Of course, we've taken it as seriously as we've always done in the House before, and so far it's never happened that anyone would ask for any kind of discretionary rights when external board members are elected. We talked to people, we begged them to write their résumés, to declare whether they were willing to participate in the work of individual committees, whether they were willing to help this Parliament. Of course they were, there were people who took it, who took it seriously, so that eventually all those proposed by the opposition clubs, and even with the addition that clubs, despite this letter from the board president, were not authorized by the proposings, so that all these proposals would be rejected in the most harsh way. I don't think that's just fair. It's not fair to the clubs that did it. It's not fair to the people we've proposed. I don't think of myself as a representative or as a club president to assess whether the proposals that are ultimately voted against by those who are rejected, whether people are more qualified, whether they are better known, whether they are more or less able to contribute to this House, it's not my job. Simply, only by such a debate would we come to that darkest part of the whole process if we were actually here in the Parliament discussing the expertise, the reputation of certain people of names, the function and the contribution to this society. It's just not fair, it's just not moral. and that is why it seems to me that in order to protect the dignity of this House it would be good to interrupt this process, to define first and foremost by one inter-party agreement of all parliamentary parties how this whole process is managed. There is a variant to which we are referred by letter from the Selection and Appointing Committee. There is a variant that a crucial role is played by the working bodies themselves, who are probably best known from their territory by respected experts who can make the most of their contributions. There is a variant of simply agreeing on some quotas, so there are different variants. The will in this case is not good. Self-will will leave a stain on the integrity of this Parliament, will leave a stain on the general impression of Croatian Parliamentism, and I think this process is very seriously disrupting the very foundations of Croatian Parliamentism. So, Mr. President, my appeal, let's try to get out of this situation in a dignified way. Let us break this debate, establish as people who have been elected to this home by the people, try to establish rules and, based on these rules, try simply to come to those solutions that will protect both the dignity of homes and the dignity of people whose times have been in some way both in clubs and in the public, etc., and simply get out of this situation with a clean cheek. If you do not accept this proposal, clean cheek will not be protected. And the HSS Club will not participate in this debate any further. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2944	Thank you. On behalf of the HSP Club, respected representative Miroslav Rožic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2945	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. A little bit to add to this, actually, what he was just saying on behalf of the HSS Club, Mr. Tomcic. And I'd say I'd try to calm down or calm down the passions of these questions that have actually gone completely, in our court of law, completely needlessly unnecessarily. What's causing this burst of passion is equally ungrateful this hour to deal with the diagnostics, so try to confirm what it's really about. But for all of us, who were on that committee yesterday, and who were members of the board, as I was a member of the Committee on Selection and Appointment, I did not ask for any distinct opinion for the simple reason that I was absolutely clear what was going on. What happened on behalf of the HSS Club was what Mr. Tomcic called arbitrary. In fact, self-will. I'm deeply hoping on behalf of the club that it's really self-will. Because self-will, with a certain effort, can be contained within the man himself and let alone within one such reasonable and high home that represents actually the entire Croatian people. But there is a danger that this is not just about self-will, but that it is actually about unanimity, and then something quite different and much more dangerous that it is actually about one thing, I would say to the attack on the very foundations of parliamentaryism, or parliamentary practice, as we usually like to call it here and what we have already been talking about today by the Prime Minister, and also by the President of Parliament, who spoke about the adoption of the budget of good parliamentary practice, regardless of what we at the club considered such a practice to be a bad parliamentary practice but parliamentary practice. Of course, I'm going back once again to really on behalf of the club, I hope this was about self-will, and that we will, in fact, resolve that will in some way. And right now I'm going to say on behalf of the club what's really true, there's no dilemma. Yesterday's election committee session, the appointments were conducted according to the Rules of Procedure. Yesterday's election committee session, the appointments were led in a way that everyone could suggest whatever he wanted. If anyone could have proposed all the proposals from different institutions to clubs, and most interestingly, in several cases, we had as a proposal from the Committee president himself, which I have never met before. But it also said that the proposaler for some of these external members was the chairman of the Committee on Selection and Appointment. I don't know if it has a foothold in the Rules of Procedure, but at the end of the line it's irrelevant, if he's got maybe every MP then, I don't know, but it doesn't matter. All is guided by the Rules of Procedure, except for a few supporting points such as the question of who is or is not an authorised promoter. So, let's say, some of the representatives' clubs have suggested, say, there in that section that says, in that section of the Rules of Procedure, that individual members are proposed, let's say, from the ranks of the medical chamber. So let's say the club, I'm speaking in my mind now, here's not to mention any other club, I'll mention ours even though it wasn't the case. Let's say suggested from the medical chamber of the gentleman or the lady here and here on behalf of the HSP Club. The interpretation of the board president was that we were unauthorized proposings. Or I, well, I don't know who gave the board president that interpretation of professional service or anyone, mostly with those names, was written by an unauthorized promoter. Although it's not really an unauthorized proposing, and it may be the only part of the Rules of Procedure that's questionable, or if you want to be resilient. Because let's say I read article 76, let's say for the selection of the Committee on Labour, Social Policy and Health, it says that six other external members can be appointed to the board, two of the unions of higher levels, one of the employers' associations, one from the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, one from the Croatian Chamber of Commerce and one from the Croatian Medical Chamber. In my opinion, that would mean that the people who propose must be members of those chambers. In my interpretation. According to the interpretation given by the professional services or by the chairman of the board, or I don't know who, it was mostly there that everyone we proposed to anyone, say from the medical chamber, was said to be an unauthorized proposer. It was something that was controversial. And these people, in fact, were simply expelled from the possibility of being elected as outside board members. Which is not true. It is definitely not true in our interpretation because it is quite clear that it does not say here that it should be proposed by the medical chamber but says it must be from the medical chamber. And so on and so forth. But what's more important is the whole story. Regardless of the meeting being held in the Rules of Procedure, despite the fact that we, as members of the board, received such a thick sum of the résumés of all candidates, which was completely unnecessary because it is clear that none of us can now read or present these résumés that we received at that time but satisfied the form was according to how the chairman of the board interpreted it. You have life, so please read it, and I quote his words, "If you will by morning, I have no objection.". It was quite clear from that performance that we could read the résumés there, that we could suggest whatever we wanted, that because of the fact that he was really constantly stressing it because he was going to give his proposal on behalf of the committee or on behalf of the parliamentary majority of the minority, I quote that. That, Bilpo will actually make it clear to all of us that we have grains of salt in our heads that we can read, propose, speak, work if you give up all of our work that Mr. Tomcic has been talking about for three weeks where we received a request from the Board of Selection and appointing that we propose outside members of the Committee. That we called people, that we contacted them that we were asking, that we were looking for their résumés, that we were giving it all away. If there was even a rush from the Board of Selection and Appointment in which you have not yet suggested give and so on. It became clear at one point that it would take place on the principle of self-will, that it would take place on principle we will name those we want and all of what you have done so far we have actually pulled you by the nose, we have made of you and of these people and in the eyes of these people unserious representatives. Unserious clubs, non-serious promoters and everything. Or how when it became clear that it was the reason why I didn't ask for an opinion, because it became clear to me that probably even that opinion won't come here as it didn't come. The ones they were looking for. And let's stop, ladies and gentlemen at that level, at this level, and let's say we don't try to diagnose exactly what it's about. Let's not use hard words if we still have time to stop here, just stay on our own free will. And let's contain it first of all in ourselves, and then we'll make it easier on everyone else. And let us choose or discuss at least on committees proposals for external members of these committees because the purpose of the appointment of external committee members is not that they receive compensation but that is to help the Committee work. And they don't have the right to vote anyway, so it won't be compromised what the president of the Committee said here when he came in the second time, so he said some of them didn't seem to understand that they were elections. Well, that really doesn't prove to the members of the outside board. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2946	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect alleged representative Branimir Glavas. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2947	Well, I'll make one thing right. Mr. Rozic said that I, as chairman of the Committee, gave an interpretation. Not one single interpretation at the Committee's meeting, nor as a member of the Committee, nor as a representative. The necessary interpretations provided professional services and those professional services that served this Committee both in the past and in this conference. And so it's incorrect that I gave the interpretations I didn't give the interpretations, and I can't give the interpretations because I don't belong to professional services. Professional services are responsible for interpretations.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2948	Thank you. In the name of the HNS Club, a respected representative of Dragutin Lesar, please be my guest.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2949	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. I looked again today at the phonograph of Prime Minister Sanader's performances and you, Mr. President, when we elected you to this post. And I must say that this is the second time that the practice in parliament and the way we are doing it is seriously different from what was obviously said in celebration and pleasure. On 3 February, the Committee on Selection, Designation and Administrative Affairs asked the clubs for a proposal to appoint non-legislative members. He set the deadline for the proposals to be submitted to the clubs by 20 February this year. The clubs acted upon the request of the selection and appointment board whose session of rjana last night, the material came to the bench an hour ago and any attempt to point out the procedure and the reasons are seen as an attempt at obstruction. Today and on the Committee on Local and Regional Self-Government, and I must mention again the good practice that has been mentioned so many times today, we have reminded ourselves that in the past term, when it comes to outside members of the Committee, at least for local and regional self-government, the committee has called on the authorities of local or regional self-government, to give their candidates, and to instruct them to the selection and appointment committee that completed the procedure. During this request, the Committee for Selection and Designation has not been notified whether it is from any institution of the association, organisation of civil society unions, employers' associations, chambers and economic chambers and religious communities that we ask them to make their proposals directly. Nor is it known at a time when these organisations, associations and institutions were asked to give or give them a chance to make proposals. I assume that the reason why the Rules of Procedure provided that committees had external members was to wish both this Parliament and individuals who were professional scientific and recognised persons in Croatia, but in civil society organisations of trade unions, employers and religious communities to participate in the creation of regulations or political views that will later be discussed at the plenary sessions of this Parliament. And I don't see any reason why, first of all, the committees that have outside members would not determine which institutions unions, chambers and religious communities will be asked to propose their candidates and only then go into the procedure of the Committee on Selection and Appointment. And for the part that I can propose to clubs to remain able to make proposals to clubs. I appeal and call and suggest because I don't think there's any reason why we have to decide today. Mr. President, I'd like you to postpone your decision on this agenda item. YOU should also give the committees who have outside members to give their suggestions and suggestions on how to fill it out. That the Bureau of Parliament should then carry out one analysis and establish a procedure and procedure equivalent to that laid down by all the committees that the Rules of Procedure provides for them to have external members. The HNS PGS Prototoy Club will not participate in the debate on these substances and will withdraw all the candidates that are in this process given because we believe that we have led all the candidates who have accepted to run for office. We're going to have a hard time explaining that it was just a form of running and that actually, the list was legal somewhere else and exhausted in another way. Finally, the same committee also requested proposals for representatives of the Assembly in certain administrative bodies of state-owned institutions or funds from the satellite clubs these days. It is good that this has not been decided last night, and I am now asking that this procedure of proposing candidates from the Assembly also be the subject of an agreement so that tomorrow we do not find ourselves in a situation where the same failures in the procedure have to be observed also because the request of the Committee on Proposals has not been withdrawn and I am afraid that we can already come to a situation that the criteria will again be merely the criteria of the parliamentary majority. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2950	Thank you. On behalf of the Club LIBRE, respected representative Jozo Radoš. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2951	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, and today it has been said here by members of the government that it would be good to have a consensus on some issues and the consensus is often spoken of, often referred to in this House of ours, and very rarely there is one. This is one question where it could be achieved because board members, outside board members, actually in a kind of political sense, in terms of power relations do not have particular importance. They are important in some other meanings regarding the atmosphere, the expertise of the work of these bodies. So if it's just politics, and it's obviously just politics, then there's no reason to tighten up on this issue, and it could really be easier to reach a consensus because it's not about some big face-to-face political interest, so I have to realize that if it's not here, then we can expect it on some issues where it's much harder to achieve because of the wealth of interest that stands in the way of its achievement. It is clear that the constitution of such bodies, or part of these parliamentary bodies, should appear. It would be best, of course, that around all candidates who are completely independent, professional, respected people who are both verifier and affirmative and of course contribute to the work of Parliament and its bodies that there is full agreement on this. Of course it wasn't in this. The other option is worse, but it can still be considered good, that it is about professional people who are named, or who choose according to the club's proposal, although it is clear that as soon as a professional person is elected according to the proposal of the club, it is a question of its independence. It does not have to be a member of the party nominally, but as soon as some experts attach themselves to this or that political option then, of course, it is a matter of their independence and then the issue of their independence, and that means the expertise in the work of those bodies. One part of this included these proposals proposed by the Committee on Selection and Appointation. The third option is to make these exclusively party people, party proposals, but then to establish parity as we composed committees by representatives. It is the same pure variant, but of course it is not ideal and it is not good because it does not dominate what it says in the Rules of Procedure. expertise, but this party's parity is maintained in the event of a party's interest, or within that body. It was also not represented in the Committee's proposal for selection and appointments but, in fact, the worst model possible, which is that mostly party people dominate this proposal, party proposals, and that their expertise, and then, in particular, independence absolutely does not exist, or cannot exist in such proposals. I'm going to say something about some suggestions, of course in this delicate subject not to mention names by trying to speak at the level of principle. The fact is, for example, that three small clubs that make up the parliamentary majority on their proposals accepted by the board have twice as many candidates as the total parliamentary opposition numbering 72 MPs. Of course, it says that it is not a respectable parity, but it seems to me that tenfold that parity has been violated. Similarly, when it comes to party candidates in one of the committees, a person is elected by one party, the person proposed by the party who obviously has no experience in this area is seen from his résumé, and university professors, as proposed by the parliamentary opposition, are not elected by the Selection and Appointing Committee, which, of course, says that it is a party-led, or party-dominated proposal. In the committee for, therefore, one candidate suggests his association, which is fine, but the question is why is it chosen from a series of candidates precisely if we know that this candidate, that person, these days, is appointed to be a member of the supervisory board of a public firm and that he is in relation to one minister, then the matter becomes much worse than it looks at first sight and can of course not serve to honor the work of this committee and this Parliament, and certainly cannot contribute to the development of some criteria that will then not be constantly questioned and constantly disrupted. And finally, in the Committee on Information and Journalists, it is proposed according to one party's proposal, it doesn't matter which party or which journalist, which, of course, just shows that all the criteria are lost and that the only dominant criteria are the criteria of party bonding which, of course, in terms of particularly journalists, shouldn't be the case. Therefore, I, Mr. President, or colleagues and colleagues, suggest that we accept the exit from this situation proposed by the representatives' clubs whose representatives spoke before me, if this does not happen, surely there will be one unnecessary shadow left in this matter really unnecessary at the beginning of the work of this High House, but if that does not happen then I must stress that we will also not participate in the Club LIBRE.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2952	I thank my colleague, Radosh. Correction of the incorrect alleged representative Branimir Glavas.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2953	It was absolutely incorrect that it was a party criterion in selecting candidates. I speak only about the first proposal of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system mentioned. So Mr. Radosh is having a discussion about something that isn't even open. One committee is mentioned and I will just say from the members proposed by Millian Sesar - proposed by the Croatian Party of Rights, Miomir Matulović - Faculty of Law in Rijeka, Branko Smerder – SDP Representatives Club, Davor Krapac – Club of HSS Representatives, Ivan Marijan Severinca – Club of HDZ Representatives. Therefore, the proposals of all political parties are equally represented.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2954	On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, Mr. Vice-President Luka Bebic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2955	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Mr. Stazic immediately accused HDZ of political violence in accordance with his otherwise conduct in the Assembly and nothing surprises us here and we are glad that this is the way he pours out, then we usually score afterwards. That's how we're gonna score now you know. And he says political violence, and now let's see a little, because the Parliament didn't start yesterday and this conference. There are those of us who were in the last meeting. Then we can talk about what the summits of democracy looked like, the highest peaks of democracy for the past four years. You know. And these peaks seemed so that we didn't have a proposal, we couldn't make a proposal because all these boards chose most of them on the basis of their agreement, up to one. I'd like someone to challenge this fact for me. So, then, the majority in the Parliament ran to the one and only and chose from all outside members of the Committee in the Croatian Parliament. That's what the summits of democracy looked like for these four years in this House. And what good parliamentary practice says, a good parliamentary practice says that the chairman of the committee has sent all the clubs, and all the institutions listed in the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, for example, associations, representatives of public, scientific, professional, workers, unions of associations, employers, Croatian Chamber of Commerce, scientific institutions, religious communities, human rights associations, interest associations of women and youth, cultural institutions, media and the like. And here some started to argue that they shouldn't have been asked and some had to be asked only by the parties and some by the parties and by them. Now by comparing those peaks of democracy when the ruling majority determined to the one and didn't ask us anything, which way I have to mention not only that we couldn't propose to the boards of opposition to anyone, but we ourselves couldn't join the committees. And at first we had 46 MPs and we were the biggest parliamentary party, and later we had sleep and loss of membership, so we stopped at 33 members, so on any basis on any committee before 3 or 4, later on 2 or 3, we should have had our own representatives. For four years, imagine that we did not exercise our rights as agents, let alone some of these associations and so forth. We had on the outside-political committee of one member and the Committee on the Internal Policy and National Security of one member, although we suggested that it be filled out, see, we failed in four years to... Now that shows the peaks of democracy and the great readiness for consensus and the agreement that has shown power over the last four years. That's the facts. We were unable to choose from committees for four years, and it says in Rule 44 that it should be reflected in the rule of the composition of the committee, or the parity of the parties, it is written in the Rules of Procedure, and this was considered to be the internal policy and national security committee when we have the right to 3, 4 that this is, as a rule, one. Some of them sitting here in the Parliament, and now they're saying different things they don't seem to remember, and we should remember because we didn't do it once. Now, here it's visible from that report from the board who tabled who, so they suggested parties, and these various associations, institutions and the like that I listed. And it is visible, for example, on this first committee that we put on the agenda how the committee was drawn up, so Glavas listed whose proposals and whose party were adopted as a proposal from the board, which can only serve the Committee on Elections and Appointments which have respected their proposals and which we have not been able to achieve in four years compared to the representatives. And that it's a disgrace to impose and so forth we had in this House of Insultations and Laws which the Constitutional Court then abolished because they were not adopted in accordance with the Law and Rules of Procedure. Well then, we did not talk about how violence is carried out, so isn't that violence in the Parliament when an inadequate and non-permanent or non-business majority is passed by some law, and the majority of them were warned that it was an organic law and that they were looking for a qualified majority. All our remarks have been ignored. We couldn't read these résumés because we didn't give them or have them, but they determined most of them in the Parliament, and most of them decided that HDZ couldn't have these two committees, but one member. We didn't even get an invitation to propose, let alone the rushes sent by Glavas on behalf of the Committee. He's sending a rush if you didn't hurry up to suggest you did, because we didn't get your answers. So, Glavas sends out rushes and we didn't even get calls. And as for the numbering of experts and scientists on a party basis, Mr. Radosh here tried to illustrate, as who knows which professor, scientist, etc. from which party and whether or not he cheers for any party and coma that he is a member. It is obvious that through this story of godless indemnity, it wants to be politicized on a small door and shared by experts and similar scientists who enter these committees on the basis of which criteria, but on the basis of which the sword here hangs above us, the belonging of individuals to which the political option is, and in this way, the whole problem that is wanted by means of remarks in the procedure and by calling for consensus only when it corresponds to them, I mean, it's quite evident here. It is seen what is to be achieved, that this first proposal is balanced in terms of party proposals and that there was no majorisation and I don't know what it was, and the worst thing for me was to listen when some of us who didn't let us have their representatives on boards for four years now are calling us here and holding up sermons on democracy, on treatment and so on. It's really killing and hard to listen to. That is why I think and I suggest that since the great effort has been made by the Committee on Selections, that it has listed and explained who it has proposed, which association, which party that it is transparent and visible and that we continue this assembly session and that we are not wasting time on it, about the bidding or which professor, doctor, engineer or similar representative of some political power, we have seen it in the previous session of the Parliament when no one asked us anything but determined everything themselves.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2956	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2957	Thank you, Mr. President. I need to correct two incorrect allegations. First, it is not true that the president of the Selection Committee, the appointment of clubs, informed the list of organisations, institutions, associations, trade unions and chambers of which the proposal was requested. It was only visible today in this proposal but not in, when requested. If half of the problem had been mentioned in the letter, it would have been removed. Neither did I, nor did I hear from anyone that he objected to what they asked for suggestions. So it's not disputed that they were asked to make proposals, but the problem was that they didn't know it before, and they asked us to make suggestions. That's what this is about. Thank you. They don't write the names of the organization. Excuse me, colleague Babybic. ... You may have another Rules of Procedure, not the same as me. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2958	Correction of the incorrect allegation, the respected representative Zlatko Kramarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2959	With all due respect, I would like to say that it is never good when one bad practice tries to justify some former bad practice because the conclusions in analogy are never valid conclusions. And I would also like to remind my colleague Bebić, I believe that he remembers very well, that he was also in the previous assembly of the Parliament here, any MPs who came from the parliamentary majority or minority, and I do not think it would be a good idea to forget it and simply nivell as if there were no MPs who, regardless of what I say to their political or party beliefs, are in any way committed to respecting democracy, so there is no need for the irony of the former Assembly's call. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2960	My colleague Kramarić, you know there is no institute for non-remembrance. Dear vice president at home, Mr. Mato Arlovic. Correction of an incorrect allegation.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2961	I must correct the incorrect assumption that during the previous meeting of the Working Body Assembly, working bodies were not composed of a parity of proportionate representation corresponding to the proportion of party representation in Parliament. That this is exactly how they are, it was drawn up, and the incorrect claim was that it was not drawn up until whoever did not believe it took the People's Newspaper from that time in which the names of members of the working bodies were published and let them see by party belongings which are all working bodies. Besides, you and your colleague, Bebić, were on the Committee on the Constitution together with your colleague Sheks and your colleague, Milas, and you were relatively representative. In these two bodies you mentioned, they were not filled because of the sharing of HDZ to several parties in the previous assembly of the Parliament and could not agree with those who shared their place. And the third, and the second quote that I have to correct. In the previous meeting of the Assembly, the proposings pointed out that the candidates for proposals for external members were working bodies that stood out according to the Board of Elections, the appointment of candidates and institutions and associations that were listed by the Rules of Procedure and then only the Board of Elections, the appointment proposed to the Assembly and the Assembly appointed working bodies.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2962	I don't want to see what it is, what does it say on the tile facing up here? ... Now, that can't be regrettable. [[/The intruder doesn't understand.]] I can't, I can't be sorry, but you did, you picked up the plate when your colleague Kramarić was talking, and this isn't... And you've lifted the tile to...... [[/The intruder doesn't understand.]] Fine, though I think you do, but go ahead. [[/The intruder doesn't understand.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2963	Please make one thing clear. Often, the president of the HDZ Club, Mr Bebic, speaks of the fact that HDZ was not able to appoint its representatives to committees in the previous assembly of parliaments. That's not an exact quote. It happened, but it was not the merit or responsibility of the parliamentary majority. The HDZ and the rest of the opposition did not want or could agree, and then ultimately asked them to take up exactly the seats in parliament's bodies, including the post of president and vice president they wanted. When such an opposition is put to the parliamentary majority, it is logical that no solution can be reached.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2964	Yeah, that's it. On behalf of the IDS Club, colleague Cain obviously gave up. And on behalf of the HSLS and DC Club. There's a club called HSLS and DC. He has a club registered in the parliament's presidency of colleagues Arlovic. Well, you can't all see the end of so much work.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2965	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues may not have noticed the esteemed vice president exist, but he will now hear us. I am sorry to say that in the previous session of the Parliament, not even the legends of the Croatian political scene, regardless of what anyone thought, such as Drazen Budisa, could not become members of the Committee for the sake of the self-will and violence of the majority proposed by you, Mr Arlovic, where representatives such as Mr Stazic, who see miracles today teach us what democracy is. Ladies and gentlemen, when HSLS came out of the coalition, you practically not only forced our members out of the Committee, but you hermetically closed the door of the possibility that our members of the party, the people who submitted for this country and for these citizens, and the most difficult burdens of 30 years in politics, could not simply become members of individual committees. So much for democracy. I remind you, I don't want to talk about it anymore, and I completely agree with my colleague Kramarić, who claims that the mistakes we have seen, which we have experienced and survived should not be repeated again. Today, however, we have to ask ourselves what is left of the parliamentary majority rather than voting like this and calling it this way. Ladies and gentlemen, when there are no rules of the game except when the rules of the game conditions and orders only the Rules of Procedure are left to us but to choose candidates as proposed by the Committee. If there was a different way of choosing, that there was a different way of proposing before that, that there was a different way of sending out notices or offers or requests or requests to all institutions that could have come forward then we might be able to redecorate the rules of the game. However, as counterpart Rosic pointed out, the fact is that the Committee followed the Rules of Procedure. We don't, there is no other document for us that could lay down the rules of the game and the rules of conduct in this high house except the Rules of Procedure. So if we haven't broken the Rules of Procedure, I don't think anyone has the right to doubt that democratic rules of conduct and democratic rules of play are being violated. I would have preferred that we had agreed in advance and said: there is likely to be a conflict of political interests. We could have predicted that. We could have known that the opposition would want perhaps more of its candidates, that the position would probably want more of its candidates and there were opportunities, there was plenty of time to agree on that. Since it is not simply here you have a proposal that if we look at the institutions that have proposed the names of candidates, including the parties that have proposed the names of candidates, ladies and gentlemen, I see that different interests are represented here and that the proposed candidates are not only one side or not just positions, but also candidates of opposition. I don't see any reason, if I suggest Mr. Smerdel's SDP, the HSP suggests Mr. Krapco, although today these candidates are ahead of us, then I don't see any, or I don't know, I think one candidate is proposing HSP, means that the parliamentary majority has been conditionalally taking due account of the will of the opposition, or those who are not parliamentary majority. Whether she could respect it more or not, it's always possible to respect it more, but it was equally possible for the existing rules of the game not to take any. As the majority of which the president of one parliamentary party did not want to take into account at all, unfortunately. But what is sad, I must say as a liberal, is the fact that we politicians are again determining who from civil society will be a member of the board. As long as it is decided by politics, while it will be the subject of inter-party discussions and debates, so far this civil society will practically be just a paramount of democracy. That's not what I'm saying because I'm saying it in order to reduce the meaning, even the legitimacy of this process, but I'm saying it because I think the rules of the game need to be set exactly in the future. If we send to civil society a signal that citizens' associations, that institutions can propose competent and professional persons who are not party members, who are not politicians by calling, then I think we should give them the opportunity to be chosen beyond our political will and beyond our political will. Whenever there are no rules to play, there will be those who will say that someone has decided of their own free will. So I think today we should accept this proposal, I see no reason why I would not accept it. But I also think that we can appeal to all of us here together to agree, to lay down the rules of the game, to know that in the future they will be chosen precisely to strengthen the initiatives of civil society, and that all those who have come just after the proposal of civil society associations would not be constantly in this way able to say, sick and dangerous policy-makers.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2966	Thank you very much. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Miroslav Rosic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2967	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I did not want to report before for the breach of the Rules of Procedure, but I did not want to repeat that in the speech of other club members, Articles 214 and 222 were injured, both in Mr Luke Bebić's speech and in Mr Chehok's speech. In fact, there were discussions on board members and the party parity of board members. And we, this isn't the topic we're discussing at all. We, the subject we are discussing, are the appointment of outside board members. So, no reminisce of Mr. Budish or anyone else who actually came from the ranks of MPs as a member of the board are fit here with this debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2968	I don't see any damage to the Rules of Procedure. And first you're late compared to one of the MPs, yes, you are, then don't. And this other one was the argument that was. The subject is committees. My colleague, Radosh, you're too late. I followed closely, unfortunately. And now we have three corrections to the incorrect assumption. Please, colleague Radosh, injury to the Rules of Procedure, to whom?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2969	So, I think, Mr. President, I have the right to correct an incorrect assumption. I raised the tile, the correction of an incorrect quote after Mr. Representative Chehok's presentation. What's the problem?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2970	But you can't do that.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2971	Why not?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2972	Because you're not in the process of exposure, but later.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2973	And that's the new rule?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2974	Well, it's not new, it is. I won't, yes. We're going to correct incorrect allegations. Dear colleague Arlovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2975	I am correcting my esteemed colleague, Chehok, that the former parliamentary majority, in the previous assembly of parliament, committed parliamentary violence, because there are colleagues from HSLS who did not allow them to be members of one of the working bodies. On the moment HSLS went out and went into opposition, we repeatedly called for the coordination of clubs of all parliamentary parties and repeatedly called for the minority to agree on including HSLS in the distribution of jobs in the working bodies so that they could be represented, elected, which they failed to agree or do by the end of the term of office, that is one thing. Secondly, I would like to say, I did not do any parliamentary violence with the majority at the time, and I must remind myself that the parliamentary act of parliamentary democracy, including the form of parliamentary violence, can also be done against Parliament and the individual by bypassing the truth as did counterpart Chehok when he made this claim here in Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2976	Correction of an incorrect allegation, a respected representative of Zeljka Antunovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2977	Mr. President, I'd like to correct the two incorrect allegations of a representative of the Czech Republic. The first incorrect allegation is that there is no other way to elect outside board members. That's incorrect. There are several ways, we heard them in the presentations on behalf of clubs today, there are several ways, we heard the proposal that these ways should be harmonised in between political representatives, or clubs in the Parliament. The second incorrect allegation is that it is not, that this should be voted upon because there was a committee holding the Rules of Procedure. That's incorrect. The Committee was first or more precisely supported by the support of most board members by the Rules of Procedure, and in this way I believe that the Committee did not adhere to the Rules of Procedure, but that it was a matter of respect for the Rules of Procedure with previous arbitrary interpretation.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2978	We've got three more injuries to the Rules of Procedure. Dear Vice-President Đurđa Adlesic, then Mr. Representative Chehok, then Mr. Glavas.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2979	Mr. President, I'm sorry that you didn't notice in time that I've committed a breach of the Rules of Procedure, but I picked her up before my colleague Antunović came forward, because I believe that you've injured the Rules of Procedure in article 214 because you've allowed the insult of the MPs. Namely, a colleague of Arlovic insulted his colleague, Chehok, by saying about the so-called "Charlie". the proper terms to bypass the truth. I am sorry that my colleague Arlovic is a little less recollection of the past times and of the last period when the SDP's relationship with Mr Budisa was indeed very correct, I was incorrect because we remained with that name. But I'm asking you nicely not to allow an insult to an attorney.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2980	Comrade Chehok...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2981	Mr. President, my colleague Rozic hurt Article 209 because he didn't speak at all about why I didn't quote a member, why I hurt the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2982	My colleague Chehok, I pray you, when it was when my colleague Rosic spoke. Well, don't. But you have to, please, you have to react when he's talking, you can't.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2983	To my exposure..
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2984	Well, it can't be later. When he exhibited, then you...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2985	Well, I did lift myself, you didn't see, Mrs. Blažević. I picked up, here's the witnesses, that I'm up.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2986	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2987	May I?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2988	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2989	May I? I picked up the lollipop, but you didn't see it. My colleague Rosic injured Article 209. I was talking about Mr Budisa's case solely because some of the SDPs called for us not to vote democratically today, and I only reminded them that they did the same in an even worse form than we do today.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2990	Representative Glavas, here you go, breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2991	Ms Antunovic injured the Rules of Procedure in Article 209. She corrected Mr. Chehok's presentation and referred to some statements by the president of the Committee in her debate. All of what you said was absolutely incorrect, I didn't give any interpretations to the board, the board gave interpretations of professional service.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2992	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2993	I have to correct two allegations from my colleague, Chehok, first of all, that there was enough time for a deal, the deal started or attempted a deal last night at 6:00. For the first time, it should end here today. And another allegation that we're against the civil society proposal. Please take a look at the reasons for candidates for the Committee on Labour, Social Policy and Health, it says that the Committee has requested proposals from, according to the Rules of Procedure, several levels and here says: "The Committee for Selection, Designation and Administrative Affairs of the Croatian Parliament has asked the Committee to appoint members: the Council of the Alliance of Independent Trade Unions of Croatia." First, there is no such organisation in Croatia. "Social Partnership Office" which is not a union organisation of more levels: "Croatian employers' associations, economic chambers etc.". Of the six unions of higher levels, the proposal was only asked for one, we didn't know it yesterday, only today we can see it. The Social Partnership Office cannot grant candidates and should instead be asked by the Economic and Social Council and not by non-existent organisations.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2994	Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. After the 3rd session, a number of MPs asked questions and asked to approach the procedure of the external committee members' source. And if they hadn't asked it, it was my duty that the President of the Parliament, who follows the Rules of Procedure, to take the necessary steps to carry out the procedure in accordance with the Rules of Procedure in order to hold an election on the Committee for the Selection of Appoints, in order to collect all the necessary candidacys. Accordingly, I asked the chairman of the Committee on Selection, Designation and Administrative Affairs, Mr Glavas, to send the professional service of his Committee to the presidents of clubs, and to the chairmans of the Committee, but in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, with all those different associations, associations, scientific experts that are scheduled for the Rules of Procedure to send these institutions, associations of associations to their candidates. The Rules of Procedure, ladies and gentlemen, are such that somewhere it says relatively precise from which the Board of Elections, appointments will look for proposals and, somewhere, it is so fluid that it leaves opportunities so that the Board of Selection, appointments, may request from a limited number of different professional institutions and associations. When working, for example, the Committee on the Constitution says 6 members are appointed from the order of public scientific and professional staff. There was nothing left for the other Board of Selection and appointments to send proposals to the Croatian law schools, to direct certain other institutions, they had a chance to deliver clubs and committee presidents where it was decided by the rules of procedure that they should deliver their proposals either to the Chamber of Commerce, or to the Chamber of Commerce or to trade unions,... unions of higher levels, was sent to all possible unions and higher levels, as I followed. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Medical chamber, Catholic church, other churches and religious community,... No, not for the pay phone, Mr. Tomcic, I give the necessary notices that I am obliged to give and to which I am entitled. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I don't have to come to the pay phone for that. And that's why all your suggestions came along. On, I, too, am now taking the stand according to your fellow Tomcic, and your proposals that you have proposed on behalf of the clubs to stop this procedure, to return to work or committees like there have been any proposals, or to be welded into working again to some interparty arrangement. So, I think that the Committee on Selection, Designation, I'm looking at it, by commenting on your proposals to me, which are addressed by a series of presidents and club representatives to stop this debate, to return, I'm just saying that the Board of Choice has done the appointments in accordance with the Businessman's work. If he had received from all possible institutions, received his proposals, it could surely have been counted that since the search for public scientific and professional workers could have been sent either 10 or 50, and he could have sent 2 hundred calls to different institutions and associations. He did what he had done before to send all those different associations, institutions and associations to the Board of Selection, appointments, practically by 20 February, to direct his proposals. The second is that there will be always and forever a political concern about how happy someone is with, from the Committee on Elections and Appointations accepted solutions and the proposed majority of votes in this committee, proposed in the plenary session of the Croatian Parliament. I don't really see any reason to stop tonight, to go back or to individual committees that they are discussing again and to debate again, please, I know exactly what was written and I have listened to very carefully different proposals that have been made here, to either return to the committees, so that the committees discuss each in their own area of interest which would be his proposals to the Committee on Selection and appointments, and then to meet again the Committee on Selections and appointments, or to go one other way, to return to one interparliamentary, inter-party consent. I do not want and cannot accept these proposals, and I think it has been enough time for you to submit your bids, and all your stratagems to your satisfaction or your dissatisfaction with the election committee's proposals, appointing you to vote on the committee's proposals. And now I'm asking the chairman of the Board for the selection of appointments in administrative matters. There is a debate, but there is a debate in the way that each proposal will be discussed by the Chairman of the Committee on Elections and Appoints, and I ask you, Mr President, to explain in detail who the proposal is afterwards will go after that debate. After that will be discussed, Mr. President, explain every proposal that has come, which has come proposals, and then we will open the debate. It's raps. Here you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2995	I will repeat this proposal for a decision on the appointment of members of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2996	Please. Don't take me now.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2997	In the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system of the Croatian Parliament are appointed members.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2998	One moment, one moment. Mr. Comrade Vujić, please welcome the violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u2999	have called for a debate to take normal part in the debate. [[Speaker not enabled]] I've applied neatly for the debate, and you're saying now that you've abolished the debate generalized the proposal and you're returning it to a place to talk about individual proposals.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u3000	A colleague, Vujić. According to the Rules of Procedure, after the proposal of the Selection Committee, the appointments are open. No, you asked for a break and after that there was a break, the clubs discussed their views and now the president of the Selection Committee will explain the proposal of each individual committee. After which proposal will be followed by a debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u3001	Mr. President. You've injured Article 209. Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u3002	Thank you, Mr. Vujic. I didn't break anything.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u3003	That's what we're trying to determine later. Okay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u3004	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Head.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u3005	Proposal for a decision on the appointment of members of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system of the Croatian Parliament. In the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system of the Croatian Sabaar are appointed members. From the ranks of public scientific and professional staff, six members. Prof. Dr. Branko Smerdel, proposed by the SDP Club, Prof. Dr. Miomir Matulović, proposed by the Faculty of Law from Rijeka, Prof. Dr. Zdravko Tomac, proposed by the Croatian Democratic Community, Dr. Millian Sesar, proposed by the Croatian party of rights club, Prof. Dr. Davor Krapac, proposed by the Croatian Peasant Party Club, is proposed by the Croatian Democratic Community Club. So of the 6 members, two are on the proposal of the Croatian Democratic Community, three by way of three opposition parties, the SDP, the HSS and the HSP and one by proposal of the Faculty of Law from Rijeka.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u3006	Quiet, please. Thank you very much. Go in turn now for everything.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u3007	I suggest I report to you all committees. Then there'll be a debate later. The next proposal is a proposal for a Decision appointing members of the Croatian Parliament's Legislative Committee. In the Committee on the Legislatives of the Croatian Parliament, they are appointed as members, from the ranks of public scientific and professional staff of Prof. Dr. Dragan Medvedović, Prof. Dr. Sredko Jelinić, Prof. Dr. Marinko Ucur, p rof. Dr. Nikola Gavella, Mr. Garvella. Goran Vojkovic, Prof. Dr. Vera Jelcic. From the ranks of representatives of the multi-level union of Mrs. Mary Maric, from the ranks of representatives of the association of employers Mrs. Jasminka Kulušić, from the ranks of prominent lawyers from the practice of Mr. Vladimir Lopner.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u3008	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u3009	In the light of the text, you have these further proposals for a Decision on the appointment of members of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament. In the Committee on Finance and the state budget of the Croatian Parliament, it is too much to be appointed members. From the ranks of the union's presentation of a higher level, Mr Drazen Managic, from the ranks of representatives of the Association of Employers Dr. Zoran Bohaček, from the order of representatives of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce Mrs Jasna Boric, from the ranks of representatives of scientific and professional institutions Prof. Dr. Branimir Marković, Dr. Željko Lovrinčević and Dr. Peter Cindicic. You have an explanation for who suggested we don't waste any time. Proposal for a decision to appoint members of the Economic, Development and Reconstruction Committee of the Croatian Parliament. In the Committee on Economy, Development and Reconstruction of the Croatian Assembly, the members of the group of representatives of the multi-level union Mr. Ms. Nikolina Haralovic from the ranks of representatives of the Association of Employers Mr. Ivan Pavlovic, from the ranks of representatives of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce Mrs. Jasna Boric, from the ranks of representatives of the scientific and professional institutions of Prof. dr. Željko Turkalj, academic lady Alica Vert Hajmer Baltic, Prof. Dr. Harry Bezic. You also have an explanation for who suggested who. Proposal for a decision appointing members of the Court of Justice Committee of the Croatian Parliament. The Board of Justice of the Croatian Parliament shall be appointed as members of the order of public scientists and professional staff of Prof. Dr. Vlado Belay, Prof. Dr. Željko Horvatic, Prof. Dr. Vladimir Ljubanovic, Prof. Dr. Michaelo Dika, Mr. Dragan NOvossel and Dr. Ivo coat of arms. You also have an explanation for who suggested who. Proposal for a decision on the appointment of members of the Committee on Labour, Social Policy and Health of the Croatian Parliament. The members are appointed to the Committee on Labour, Social Policy and Health of the Croatian Parliament. From the ranks of the union's representatives, Ms Dušanka Marinković Drač, Mr Zdenko Mučnjak, from the ranks of the union's representatives, from the ranks of the representatives of the Association of Employers Mrs Dubravka Lekić, from the order of representatives of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce Mrs Zdenka Peternel, from the order of representatives of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce Mr Josip Novogradec, from the order of representatives of the Croatian Chamber of Medicine of Primarys of Hrvoje Minigon. You also have an explanation and you can see who suggested who. Proposal for a decision on the appointment of members of the Committee on Education Science and Culture of the Croatian Parliament. In the Committee on Education Science and Culture of the Croatian Parliament are named as members of the field of science academics Milan Moguš, and Prof. dr. Antun Mijatović, from the field of education Dr. Dragomir Majarić and Prof. Dr. Milan Matijević. From the culture area of Mr. Goran Grgic and Mr. Milan Beslic. Also in reason to have and is visible who suggested whom. Proposal for a decision to appoint members of the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry of the Croatian Parliament. In the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry of the Croatian Parliament, they are appointed members of the public scientific and professional staff, Mr Vladimir Jordan, Prof. Dr. Boris Antunović, Dr. Ivo Krpina, Prof. Dr. Zvonko Seletkovic, Prof. Dr. Boris Varga and Professor Dr. Davor Romic. You also have a clear explanation of who suggested who. Proposal for a decision to appoint members of the Information and Information and Media Committee of the Croatian Parliament. In the Committee on Information and Information and Media of the Croatian Parliament, they are named for members of the media Mr Tihomir Dujmović, Mr Zlatko Kuretić, for their responsibilities, Dr. Zrinka Peruško, Dr. Damir Boras. From Mr. Dragutin Lučić's association and Mr. Zdenko Duk, you also have a clear view of who suggested who. There is one other committee left, and this is a proposal for a decision to appoint members of the Human Rights and Rights Committee of the National Minorities of the Croatian Parliament. I am obliged to report that today afternoon, the Croatian Democratic Community club withdrew its candidacy and the proposal that Mrs Vera Swoboda from the Association “Catarina Zrinski” run for membership in this committee. So there is nothing left for the committee but to accept this withdrawal of the candidacy and to inform you that this committee will propose the appointment of four members, with the appointment of one of the representatives of the Association for the Protection of Human Rights and one who was present today in the proposal, referring to “Catarina Zrinski” from the ranks of representatives of the interested Associations of Women and Youth. Out of the ranks of representatives of the Association for the Protection of Human Rights, there was only one proposal, and this was introduced into this final version of the proposal for Parliament as a proposal for a committee. Since we didn't have another one, then there is room and the possibility of subsequent completion with another representative of human rights organisations in the subsequent procedure if possible for the next session next Wednesday. So we will use these few days if these proposals come and I therefore propose a decision to appoint members of the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of the National Minorities of the Croatian Parliament four members of the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of the National Minorities of the Croatian Parliament are appointed members of the order of the representatives of the Catholic Church Mr. Gordan Črpic, from the ranks of representatives of all other religious communities, Mr. Simo Rajic, from the line of representatives of the Association for the Protection of Human Rights Mr. Veljko Miljevic, from the line of representatives of the interested Associations of Women and Young Mr. Denis Bajs. Once again, I stress four are elected today, and two will be completed if possible and prepared already on Wednesday. Mr. President, I think I've got it all out. You may have been following me if I hadn't missed something, but I don't think so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u3010	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate on these proposals. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. ... We move to a vote on the Committee's proposals for selection, appointment and administrative affairs. [[beginning not saved]] I would like to put to the vote the Committee's proposal on the Committee on the Constitution and Rules of Procedure, as proposed by the Committee. Here you go, pal.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u3012	Mr. President, I think it would be a turn for MPs to at least give some explanation as to why a break has been requested at this time, whether or not it was asked for by the President of the Parliament. At least we have the right to know so much, what was the motive for the break? And it's a violation of the Rules of Procedure, and it's important.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u3013	The vote is being prepared, that there are formal assumptions necessary for the vote. Choose your colleague, Lucin.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u3014	Thank you very much, Mr. President, I'd like a 15-minute break on behalf of the SDP Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u3015	Thank you very much. Unfortunately, I can't please you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u3016	For what? Why?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u3017	Because I don't see any reason for that. You do. I can't see. We're going to the vote. I put to the vote the proposal of the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system, with regard to members of the proposed external members for the Committee on the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure and the political system. Please, who's in? Thank you. Score. Against? I don't mind. Thanks for your help. Restraint? I find that 77 votes in favour and 2 abstentions have been accepted by this motion for a decision. The second is the proposal for a decision of the Committee on the Legislatives of External Members. I am voting on the proposal for this decision. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Restraint? I find 78 votes in favour and one abstention of the committee's accepted proposal. Proposal for a decision appointing members of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. External members as proposed by the Committee. I am voting on this proposal from the committee. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Restraint? I find that the committee's proposal has been accepted by 77 votes in favour and 2 abstentions. The following is the proposal for a decision to appoint members of the Committee on Economy, Development and Reconstruction, as proposed by the Committee on Selection and Designation. Who's up for this proposal? Thank you. Against? Restraint? I find it unanimous with 77 votes to adopt this proposal for a committee. Proposal for a decision on the appointment of members of the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities of the Croatian Parliament. With the exception of withdrawing the proposal for Vera Freedom. Who's in favour of this proposal? Thank you. Against? Restraint? I find that 77 votes in favour of a unanimous proposal from the Committee on the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of the National Minorities. Proposal for a decision appointing members of the Court of Justice Committee of the Croatian Parliament. I put this proposal to the vote, according to the proposal of the Committee on Selection and Designation. Who's in? Against? Restraint? I find that, unanimously with 77 votes to be appointed to the Committee on Justice, external members are on the proposal of the Committee on Selection and Designation. Proposal for a decision on the appointment of members of the Committee on Labour, Social Policy and Health of the Croatian Parliament. I am voting on the proposal of the Committee on Selection and Designation. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Restraint? I note that 77 votes unanimously accepted the proposal of the outside members of this committee according to the proposal of the Selection and Appointing Committee. Proposal for a decision on the appointment of members of the Committee on Education, Science and Kutlura of the Croatian Parliament. I am voting on the proposal of the Committee on Selection and Appointation. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Restraint? I find that, with 77 votes, it is unanimous that they have been appointed members of the Committee according to the proposal of the Committee for Selection and Appointment. Proposal for a decision on the appointment of members of the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry of the Croatian Parliament. I am voting in favour of the motion for a decision as proposed by the Committee on Elections and Appointments. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Restraint? I find that it is unanimous with 77 votes in favour, that the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry is appointed members according to the proposal of the Committee on Selection and Designation. Proposal for a decision to appoint members of the Information, Information and Media Committee of the Croatian Parliament. I am voting on the committee's proposal. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Restraint? I find that it is unanimous with 77 votes, that 6 members are appointed to this committee according to the proposal of the Selection and Appointing Committee. That would be about this. Did we have anything else on the board president? Nothing. Just one more detail. The Committee on Information, Information and Media was proposed by the chairman of the Committee, signed, a proposal for a decision on the discharge of members of the Croatian Programme Council of the HRT, to dismiss Mr Slobodan Zelec, who submitted a personal request for resolution to the Croatian Parliament presidency in the HRT Programme Council, as Article 18 of Article 10. The HRT Act provides that members of the Council cannot be civil officials. Since Mr. Slobodan Zelek has been appointed Secretary of State, he has therefore proposed to be relieved of membership in the HRT programme council. The Committee on Information, Information and Media has accepted this and I propose to accept this proposal for a decision on the resolution of Mr. Slobodan Zelec, for the sake of incompatibility, because he was appointed Secretary of State. Who's up for this proposal? Thank you. Against? Restraint? I find that, unanimously with 77 votes, the decision has been made. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. I'm interrupting the session. We'll continue at 9.30 tomorrow with these agenda points. The selection and appointment committee submitted their proposals. I'd like the chairman of the board, Mr. Glavas. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u3019	Thank you very much, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. The board sat yesterday and came up with the following proposal. Proposal for a decision to appoint two members of the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities of the Croatian Parliament. In the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities of the Croatian Parliament, it is proposed that they be appointed members. From the order of representatives of the Association for the Protection of Human Rights Mr. Ivan Zvonimir Čičak and from the order of Representatives of Women's Interested Associations, Ms. Vesna Kesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u3020	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing up. I am voting on a proposal for this decision. Here you go. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Restraint? I note that with 98 votes for and 1 abstention in the Committee on Human Rights and Rights of National Minorities of the Croatian Parliament, Ivan Zvonimir Čičak and Vesna Kesic were appointed. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u3021	Proposal for a decision to appoint members of the Supervisory Board of the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development. In the Supervisory Board of the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development, it is proposed that they be appointed. For members of Mr. Šime Prtnječa, Mr. Gordan Jandroković and Mr. Željko Pecek. For the deputy members, Mr. Ratko Gajica, Dr. Josip Sudec, and Mr. Zdenko Antesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u3022	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on a proposal for this decision. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? I note that with 94 votes for, 4 against and one abstention in the Supervisory Committee of the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development from the ranks of MPs are appointed as members of Šima Prtenjač, Gordan Jandroković and Željko Pecek. And for the deputy members of Ratko Gajica, Josip Sudec and Zdenko Antešić. We're going to the next item on the agenda. Nine. Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Designation and Part-Corruption of Ministrys and State Administration Organisations, with the Final Proposal of the Law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 33 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure unites the first and second readings of the law. The amendments can be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Constitution, education, immigration, local and regional self-government, agriculture and forestry and the Committee on Spatial Planning and Environmental Protection. You received the reports at the session. Does the Government's representative State Secretary of the Central Office, Mr Antun Paralic's State Administration Office, want to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u3024	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear ladies and gentlemen, before the appointment of the Prime Minister's term of office, before the appointment of the Prime Minister for Prime Minister, Mr Sanader proposed that this House be adopted by law on the establishment and division of ministries and state administrative orgasms with a view to reducing the number of ministries to create a smaller government by the number of its members more operational in accordance with the relevant experiences from European countries. This law amends this system in a way that we propose that the very name of the law be changed that the law is called “the Law on the Construction and Circular of Central Authorities of the State Administration” in order to regulate the structure and part-round of ministries and state-run administrative organisations and to fully regulate the work of central state offices established by the Government Act. In the course of work, the government has abolished several offices and the work continues, so this law proposes that the part-rounding of these offices be placed or scheduled in the ministry's section. For example, for the part-time office of co-operation with the international court and international criminal courts as well as the affairs of the Office of Representatives of the Government of Croatia before the European Court of Human Rights would be carried out by the Ministry of Justice. We suggest that a fine redistribution be carried out between the government's rescheduling authorities for the wood industry and forest protection would be transferred to the Ministry of Agriculture. The care and assistance of exiles and refugees and returnees would be in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of the Sea, tourism, transport and development. However, it may be most important to mention that this law proposes the establishment of two new administrations of the State Institute for radiation protection as a state organisation established, which is provided for by a special law and by the State Administration for Protection and Rescue. We want to establish a single body in this country that, in the event of any disaster, the troubles of a citizen can be reported and requested to organise all kinds of assistance. Mr. President, we listened to the committees' opinions and responded immediately. Today, the government has also proposed amendments to its own law to satisfy the debate and improve the text. These amendments concern the Ministry of the Interior's work in a way that defines its work more precisely, i.e. the work of the Ministry of Protection and Rescue, in order to continue to be part of the Ministry of the Interior with regard to fire protection. Furthermore, we are nomotechnically editing the text regarding transitional provisions in which we have had observations. These amendments were signed and they will be here and we specify that the State Protection and Rescue Authority would start working on 1 January 2005 in order to develop all legal and sublegal aspects for the start of its work and technical equipment and personnel completeness and then have an item in the budget. The amendments were sent from the government, and you'll get them soon. This is how we address the issue raised in the debates as well as the question why no specific national security work body is set up as provided for by special law. The government will question whether we need that body. For now, we want these jobs to be carried out by the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship until the establishment of the nuclear safety body. The formation of the ministries is almost over. The regulations are designed to allow these few ministries that still have to adapt to their formation in the newly established area to adopt the law by an urgent procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u3025	I thank Secretary of State Anthony Palaric. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Chairman of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system Drazen Bosnjakovic please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u3026	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. The Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System discussed the Proposal for this Law at its 5th session held on 24 February 2004. This Law has been discussed on the basis of our jurisdiction as set out in Article 57. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament as a parent working body. In the debate, we supported the motion that the bill be adopted after an urgent procedure. We also supported the decision of the draft law but suggested that in Article 25 of the transitional and final provisions, in order to clarify the provisions set out above, the amendment and the way to determine the date when the newly established state bodies start working on what we have now heard from the government's promoters that the amendment has actually been accepted. The debate also drew attention to the need to comply with the following laws with this law, also to the future obligation of the proposings to comply with the provisions of the proposed laws and their titles with the legislation of the European Union. After the debate, the Committee proposed by a majority of votes of 9 for and 4 abstentions to the Croatian Parliament to pass the proposed law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u3027	Damir Cain, IDS Club. He's losing his word. Dragutin Lesar, HNS PGS Club here.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u3028	Thank you very much, dearly respected colleagues and colleagues. Although I have also asked the Committee on the Constitution this question, I have not received a decoded answer, so I ask the rapporteur to answer my question clearly, namely whether this proposal for amendments and additions to this Law is in the category of those laws in which we bring Croatian legislation into line with the European law. Because if a special label should then be worn, but then this is a more strange explanation of the motion, and I remind you, that at the first session of the assembly, that is, in December of the month, we had this Law on the agenda and, therefore, in the light of this Law, it reads: "This Bill also proposes to separate the state intellectual property office, normisation and measurement. The government's intention was to set up a State Institute, but because of the European Union's request, they exceeded the reasons for the state's normisation and measurement services and the State Intellectual Property Institute to remain independent and it is proposed to return to the state as it was." So we had something that was in line with Europe, changed and connected and now we're redistributing to be what is in line with European standards. And in this bill and others, we believe that it would be extremely useful for us not to repeat these things that after two months we are correcting something and we need to comply with this, in future not only when the Government is the legislator of the Law but the other promoters we have a clause, a label, a saying that the bill is in line with European standards, i.e. in accordance with European legislation, because it will save us a tremendous amount of time, possible misunderstandings, and particularly frequent changes in the organisation of the organisation and way of the work of individual organisations, whether it is about state offices or administrative organisations. The amendments to the Government, on this proposal for a law, are somewhat mending what has been disputed so far for me, especially where it is more clearly specified that the State Protection and Rescue Authority is practically starting to act only with 1. 1st year, but it would therefore be extremely useful that in that time, so up to 1. The next year, the Parliament adopts amendments to laws directly related to such a newly established and newly envisaged state administration, particularly in the area of fire protection and civil protection, because otherwise we will be in a position to have two, three laws that regulate the same area in a completely different way in the next year. If this proposal were to be accepted that we always have the position of the promoter in the future that the bill is in line with European legislation, we would avoid this situation of frequent changes, what is particularly important would be followed by the pace and plan of harmonisation of Croatian legislation that we have adopted with the European Parliament at the previous session. That is why I repeat this proposal and the application especially to the Government when the motion is to adhere to such a principle and I think even the Rules of Procedure of this commits such provisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u3029	Thank you very much, dear colleague. On behalf of the HSP Club, dear colleague Pero Kovacevic. There are still four clubs and seven MPs reported. Here's your colleague Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u3030	Mr. Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen. I will try to be as brief as possible, first of all when adopting a valid law, we said a considerable number of remarks, one of the important remarks was that in the applicable law, there was not a precisely elaborated work of ministries and state administrations. The prime minister himself said that Mr. Bebic on the Committee would be able to make it better soon, and we also suggested one important thing to set up this State Protection and Rescue Authority, and we certainly welcome that part, but I still have some things to say. What happened again, which I don't know why there was some kind of discrepancy, or the Ministry... how the law works. Obviously, it's been asked of all the ministries to write what their work is, that's how it should be done. Obviously, the ministries don't even know today what their work is full of because we're back in the situation that the provisions are quite inaccurate in terms of determining the work cycle. We in our Bill of Law, which we gave back to the 7th month of last year, have indeed set out a precise and clear part of the work, and I see that most of this part has been used in such a way that there is an accurate and clearly elaborate work. But it's also visible something else, that they are especially for this new administration, and that's the State Department for the Protection and Rescue of Part-Circular Work very badly defined. In addition to this part of administrative and professional, which is said, although it is quite imprecisely said I am part of the work, it says: "The State Administration for Protection and Rescue is performing administrative and professional tasks relating to the establishment of a system of protection and rescue of citizens, matrix and other goods", and now it says: "In disasters, training and training", what is missing in the case of elementary and other unfavourable, direct threat to independence, the unity of the state and the war situation, and what is missing most about this work, is missing from this part of the command. This means that this administration will, at the moment when all the powers of the protection and rescue systems are put in place, be in place and that means that it is in charge of protection and rescue actions, both prevention and action itself, whether it is an elemental accident, an incident, and we know that our system is what happened to us. In the Homeland War, we had a well-organized and teamed civil protection, and she really did her part of the job, and at this point we unfortunately had civil protection on paper alone, and we saw her on TV the other night, and we don't have a unit anymore, and there's no equipment that was visible in the event of an earthquake relief in Iran. The second thing I have to notice here is that part that unfortunately we're going back to increasing the number of state administrations. We had five of them, and now that number's increasing to 8. We agree that there is a need to achieve a state administration of protection and rescue. Now I don't see a visible reason why suddenly after not two, two months there is again a separation of the State Intellectual Property Institute from the State Department of Standardization and Measurement. It is said in the explanation that the European Union has asked for it. So here it's only visible that obviously the first proposal was then either unprepared or it was like that, is it, we're now going to have new costs to separate these two state bodies in a way that we know what has to be done to register, out the employees themselves, the new structure, the sign-up boards and everything else that's going on and what seems rather unserious to me. I also find this situation rather inconclusive. A new State Department for radiation protection is hereby established. That's what we got. We have to, we have this obligation we've taken, but what's important to say? In my opinion, this State Institute should not have been, either on its own terms, or could fit in or in the administration which would be for protection and rescue or any other body, because this way will again come to the same, the same number of bodies means from the ministries and everything else as it was before the adoption of the current law. On the Committee of Legislatives, I have said a considerable number of objections. We have technical and other natures. One part I see it's done here for the Ministry of the Interior. Namely, that provision remains in the current law to protect the constitutional order that was included in 1991 when we needed it for... And the formation of the Assembly of the People's Guard then this provision should have existed for us. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's what my colleague Vresk used to say. Also, what is important to say is to correct, say, the responsibility of the Ministry of Family, Defence and how it is taken away only part of what it was doing, the former office run by Grujic, so the forgotten word is the funeral, because he was only doing the identification of the remains, and that part of what the ministry is doing has been forgotten. Further to the Ministry of Defense, you still have security plans that no longer exist in the state. Next thing you know, I'm gonna say the same thing. Something has happened in the light of our proposal for a conflict of interest law, the Government rightly says that it is unacceptable to amend transitional and final provisions. It's for me and the lawyer the right legal position, but look what's going on. The same government is sending this bill to the same session where it amends the transitional and final provisions to its own. So in his proposal that, yes, it is possible to do so. When we put up with it, he says it's impossible. It is legally correct that it is not possible to amend the transitional and final provisions because they know what their purpose is, but I say the Government is doing it all. And now it's an interesting situation. So you can do it once when it comes to us, but then you can't do it when it comes to the government. And now that I've been fraternised by this bill and we're in the Club is this fact that two new bodies are being formed; the State Protection and Rescue Authority and it's said that the central office will take over the work of the Croatian Privatisation Fund. And the final bill doesn't say when. Right deadlines must be defined or determined. That's, that's how they taught us, and I think it's in legal science today. So it has to be said exactly when the National Rescue Authority starts working? Is that going to be 1.1.2005? 1.1.2007, or any year, but it has to be said, what kind of law is it if you set something up and even if the government is obliged to bring in the structure of that new body, and it's not said when it will start working. Such is the same situation with this part that the central State Office for State Property Management will take over the Croatian Privatisation Fund. When you don't know. So one of the reasons was that there was a need to change this and the Fund Act, if this wanted to change immediately here and say: the Central State Office will take over these jobs and start working at the latest by 1.1.2005. Now I have to tell you that I'm really surprised by some people, some of us say in the Club, which is that it begins to say, for example, Article 25 and paragraph 2 says “s”, be careful “s” starts to express the provisions, and then the big letter “At the beginning of the work of state administrative protection for rescue” and so on. Then “until the beginning of the work” and such expressions, which is obvious that this office of Mr Palarić is not teamed at all. Because beware of me would be most correct if this law went into two readings and then we could get a really good law. I have now received this, this moment and we at the Club have considered one part of our amendments that we have agreed on on the Committee of Legislatives, but not the whole part of it is included, and I say so many of these indiscretions and inadequacies and, or I suggest that this other part of what I'm saying here is that the Government corrects its own amendments or that it puts in regular reading because it really does not, it does not like the Croatian Parliament to pass such bad nomotechnical laws, meaning that it is not, and that the part of the work is not prescribed properly, because according to us, the Law of Construction, now means the central body of the state administration, should be the one that determines the exact and precise part of the work, because what happened in the former part, let's say. A small part of the prime minister has promised that, in the former composition, the government will establish a huge number of various government offices and the prime minister has promised to reduce the number of offices, but it is reduced by one 3.4 and now in this amendment, what I saw quickly is that it will soon go and that a special, new central government body regarding jobs will be established, here's how to read "the nuclear security tasks responsible, in the field of nuclear security". So we're going to get more of these new bodies, and what it tells me or me is that we don't know how or how the government's programme will accomplish that the administration will be in the position of citizens, that it will be available to the citizens and that it will know who is doing what. We at the club also maintain office days for parties and we can tell you the following that people, that they would be so manipulated because to submit and resolve some kind of request, are constantly walking it from one door to the other. Eventually with the intention of him giving up his own claim. Therefore, there is a huge job in the government, and I ask you, Mr. Palaric, on behalf of the Government, no more unprepared laws, especially by an urgent procedure, because it is not like our lawyers and it is not like our legal profession. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u3031	Thank you, dear colleague Kovacevic. Željka Antunovic is a representative on behalf of the SDP Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u3032	Madam Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. The law on whose amendments and amendments we are about to begin the debate was adopted at the 1st session of this assembly on 22 December 2003. Then, speaking of this Law on behalf of the SDP Club, we warned of one of the dangers that these proposed amendments confirm. We have then warned the promoter that he is engaging in a very risky business of changing the entire system of state administration, changing the entire state administration, and without serious preparations and without a serious concept. At that time, however, the Prime Minister, on several occasions and even in this House, assured us that it was an existing concept that should only be translated into law. That this concept was prepared by the ruling majority, i.e. the Croatian Democratic Community for 8 months, and that the reorganisation of the state administration can and must be implemented and must be implemented immediately, immediately at the first session of the Parliament. On February 12th 2004, it meant a little more than a month, from the government, this proposal was sent to the parliament to amend and supplement the law. Already, this fact, because it is quite extensive changes and additions, suggests that if there was a concept, it was rather vague and vague. However, today something has happened that once again confirmed that our warnings on the day when the law was passed were very basic. Today, during the afternoon of February 25th, we received a proposal from the Government to amend and supplement the Law adopted two months ago. These amendments are of their own size, there are five of them, but according to how many amendments and additions predict almost identical amendments and additions to this law. So in a month, two proposals and a proposal for an amendment and all in an emergency procedure. In the light of the reasons why it is particularly justified for state reasons and as such state reasons, the adoption of a regulation on the internal organisation and the internal order regulation as defined by the transitional provisions and the original text of the law and the amendments and addition of this law shall be stated. We will, without any claim, stop this dangerous dance on the Croatian Government's wire once again express our position, which is not an attempt at politicising this issue, but a serious warning that this way of making changes, corrections affect not only the size and operationality of the Government, but that these laws directly affect the efficiency and operationality and most of the entire state administration. And the state administration includes all officials and tenants sitting in that administration to serve the citizens of the Republic of Croatia and to solve some of their important life problems. Already after amendments and additions were passed, that is, after a new law was passed, a wave of dissatisfaction started, people employed by the state administration, but an even greater wave of dissatisfaction with citizens who are users of the same services, and the same state administration. Earlier, a colleague, saying on behalf of the HSP Club, said they had a lot of complaints and a tip from citizens complaining about walking from door to door, that they did not know where to solve their problem. And that's right. I'm not going to say they're reporting to the SDP club with full confidence, they're answering everyone. They're probably reporting to you too, reporting to the Ministry and getting incredible answers. The answers to which they are warned that some official there who needs to solve their problem doesn't even know which ministry he belongs, doesn't even know who his competent minister is, doesn't even know what his head of staff or doesn't even know how to start or continue to do his job. It's a rough reality. The assessment of the situation in the proposal to amend and supplement this Act states that the reason for this proposal and the original text of the laws of December, the assembly of ropes and the operation of the Government of the Republic of Croatia is the reason. We can talk about that. But the facts are about something else. Under the old law, the government numbered 23 ministers and 18 deputies. A total of 41 people who, in a narrow sense, belong to what the government is. Under the new law, the government numbers 14 ministers and has yet to be appointed, but the job has not yet been completed, 27 state secretaries, which happens to be exactly the same number 41 and shows that the less government and the more operational government do not hold water. There's something else going on in practice. The same argument, i.e. the assessment of the situation, states that this proposal, i.e. that this proposal, is given for discussion in order to coordinate the work of individual resolutions in order to make the work more operational. You know, when I put it back into practice, it's like, let's mix something up, mix it up, make it unclear, that nobody knows who's supposed to do what and who's responsible for what, and then get along. Coordinate every month with new changes that will fix a part of the problem, but in this way, since it is part of the proposals, it is likely to bring confusion into a new area and cause some new problems. This bill of law, let me be a little bit more specific now and say what we think about some proposals, I'm saying without any pretense that someone will appreciate what we're thinking. But keep it on record. It is proposed that a large and important industrial branch, particularly a perspective for Croatia's industry, be transferred from the Ministry of Economy to the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy. Because, well, it should be in the context of the supervision of forest conservation and exploitation, and then the processing of that raw material into something that is a final product, which is definitely an industrial product, which is an industrial branch, except for having to do with the cultivation of forests, has a lot more to do with many other industries, and I'm sure nobody in the wood industry will be satisfied, as in the food industry, that they are dissatisfied with the Ministry of Agriculture's resources, but they would rather be there where the parent resort that cares about the economy, i.e. industrial branches, industrial production. These amendments also suggest that exiles, refugees and returnees, i.e. the victims of war, whatever category they were, be transferred from the Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity to the Department of the Sea, Tourism, Transport and Development. By name, it is seen that this ministry is something that should be a development ministry. and that there are almost no touching points except perhaps in the operational part of the construction of the destroyed objects in the war, with the problems of the victims. There are other resistors, including the one from which it is transferred, and some other resolutions that would certainly, given their structure and the experience of employees, do much better work for the benefit of the victims of war. I think this is a note that the government should consider if it wants to achieve those goals that are declared here. Here it is also said about, and it is said in the opening statement about the formation of several central state offices. We think it's the very concept of central offices, whether they're government offices, or central government offices, the government's office as they were called under the old law, that it's something that's necessary. Experience in government, experience in state governance, has shown us that there are some segments that need to be coordinated from one place and it is not good when they are partly scattered around the ministries, and these are exactly state property management and Croatian internetisation, information about Croatia and the like. As well as the development strategy, etc. It's a good thing it exists. However, at this moment and the cores of these future central offices do not function because they are engaged in reorganisation, and a whole series of projects that they have inherited from some other or restors or government offices, or government agencies, stand and are defacto suspended and are extremely important for the more efficient functioning of the state administration, for more efficient functioning of the state administration and for monitoring the spending of public budgets. And that's the problem, it's a big problem because it's already late in the realisation of these projects, one of them is safe and records and monitoring of the state's assets. These are projects, for example. Internetisation or information of healthcare spent by 18 billion state money and a whole series of other projects currently standing in the sky and on the earth and we are dealing with reorganisation. This proposal proposes amending and supplementing the law even something that is elemental, a change in the name of the law. And it's one of the arguments that shows that with changes, it's very serious and crucial changes without the right concept. It has already been mentioned here and the question has been asked whether this law has something to do with harmonising with European Union standards, the answer to that, as I have heard, is not a day. However, the text of the law states that it has something to do with the work. Until recently, the State Institute for Standardisation and Measurement and the State Institute for Intellectual Property were placed in 1 law on 22 December. On February 20th and February 12th respectively, it is proposed to separate them, because it is smarter because it also recommends the European Union. Don't mind me, but it's like what you write to me, delete, write, delete, and who knows how many times. And while it's all going on, while we're wandering around discussing organization, reorganisation, or even better said... organization, our citizens have an increasingly poor service, the state administration is increasingly inefficient and the government will have more and more problems itself over time. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And for this reason, with the fact that the implementation of this law requires and asks for additional funds and that it will cost, I conclude that this way of adopting, proposing and amending such laws, these key topics are bad, unwarranted and very, very dangerous.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u3033	Thank you very much, colleague Antunović. On behalf of the HSS Club, distinguished representative Josip Vresk, please welcome fellow MP.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u3034	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, gentlemen of the government, colleagues and colleagues. At first I will say the Croatian Peasant Party Club will support this law because we believe that each government has the right to handle the work of the ministries in part, i.e. The responsibility of ministries and the organisation of ministries, i.e. national administrative organisations. That's what's good, and I guess that's what the government wants to do in order to be as effective as possible. What should be said to be careful when changing such organisational laws, these are laws that produce behind them and certain consequences. In fact, it is evident that, following the adoption of this law, it will be necessary to pass and very few ministries will be in which there will be no need to do so in a series of internal organisation regulations, and only when these regulations are adopted will there be a series of systemisation regulations and then issue individual solutions. This is what must be done so that every, every ministry, every state administration could simply function, that all employees would be employees of that administration and that they would know exactly where they were doing it. And it seems to me that regardless of what's good, the government itself determines how it's going to work, it's going to spend a lot of time on doing these jobs, which shouldn't be of primary importance again. It is good that the Government has indeed followed the work of the Assembly Committee on Legislatives and intervened with the amendment, which is part of that provision on the part of the work, which is that Article 7 of the current law, which was passed, seems to me on 22 December, under which the Ministry of Interior in its work is also performing the role of the security guard, therefore protecting the constitutionally established order of the Republic of Croatia. When the Police Act was passed, we were then in this law, so the former government predicted the jurisdiction of a special body called the constituency unit in the MUPU, which is called the Police Directorate and the Police Act foresaw its jurisdiction as a special constituency unit. In the adoption of the law, regulations were also adopted in the field of the work of the security community, and the government subsequently adopted a series of sublegal regulations and it is clear that this part of the work was to have to come out of the Ministry of the Interior, and it is good that the Government saw and kicked out that part of Article 7 of the now applicable Act on the Part-Corruption of Ministrys and State-Government Organisations. However, I must say that it would be good for the Government to see this article as well, because it is evident that there are also some organisational units that today's MUP are no longer present. They are not based on the Police Act, they are not based on the Internal Design Regulation of the Ministry of the Interior, not to mention only special police, fundamental etc., etc., but simply prescribed, prescribed content, or the jurisdiction of an organisation unit of the MUP called the Police Directorate. I must say, I'm really pleased that finally the government has decided to form a state administration for protection and rescue. You who are a little more concerned with direct or indirect fire, civil protection and other civil services dealing with protection and rescue know that it is really necessary to establish a single state body that will deal with this business, so, in addition to these jobs, the work of the mountain rescue service, the center 112, etc., etc., and which will not be closed for possible entry and new services, if the need arises, or if they occur. This is on the one hand good, whether this Law should have prescribed that this state administration began working from January 1st next year, or perhaps I should have even prescribed it by the Law on Protection and Rescue, which is now the subject of the promoter, and I really won't interfere with it, that is the will of the Proposer. I think I should have been prescribed in that law. What I need to say is that I really don't understand why inspections are left at the Ministry of the Interior when the state administration, the new state administration, will have everything, all features of the ministry, won't be called the ministry, will be called the state administration. It's just the second oragnisation form. You could have easily left and administrative inspection in that roar, of course you should have taken it off with this amendment it was indeed and made out of the ministry's jurisdiction but now you've redistributed it will work again but trust me it will be quite complicated. You'll make it harder to do the job yourself. I just want... What the Croatian Peasant Party proposed today was a law on protection and rescue. An interesting starting date is the same on January 1st 2005. We felt that a proper deadline should be left to the government because before this state administration will begin to work, it will be necessary to deliver important laws. We all know what the situation in the fire is like from the material position of the fire department. It needs to be moved by a new law. The current law clearly doesn't drink water. To civil protection laws and so on and so on. By means of a regulation in the internal structure of the systemisation regulation itself, which must be adopted by the new director of the administration. Of course, the regulation is passed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia and this is all about the fact that the Government should actually be given an appropriate deadline because it is really impossible to bring these regulations into the month for two or three days that are very important about very extensive regulations. Believe me, there are a lot of interested persons in our country who are quite interested in the work of these services. We as a Parliament government must simply do something. The situation is not good, of course it doesn't blame the former government or this one or that one before this government. The situation has accumulated for decades but something must be done. The government itself has seen that it will enter into the parliamentary procedure of proper regulation whether it will be called a protection and rescue law, or as it will be called this third is less important. It's the content of that law that matters. The HSS has also been working on a paradise law and has referred it to a parliamentary procedure under emergency procedure, and it has just happened that the Government has also referred this law to the parliamentary procedure as well. We think it would be a good idea to go into passing that law. I would leave a longer term to the government trust me the government could better prepare other regulations and sublegal acts. What I'm trying to say in the end is that the concern of exiles, refugees and returnees is, in fact, a little more severe in that ministry of the sea. Maybe it's a little awkward to hear. I understand that by joining the ministry, it's actually a matter of jurisdiction. And that's because of the application of the law from December 22nd last year. However, it seems to me that the very nature of things would sooner belong to the family ministry because it is such a job that would be more natural there. And maybe the government should have had the courage to leave it in that ministry. If nothing else, it would at least sound nicer this little too hard for such a job. In the end, the great Croatian peasants' club will support this law, we are sorry that it did not start with the law on protection and rescue. My faith will be a problem with the adoption of this bill and there will be less time for better quality preparation of the application of this law. It's a little time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u3035	Thank you, dear colleague Vresk. We have one correction to the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative of Shima Lucin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u3036	Thank you very much. In fact, Mr. Vresk said that he also said something in the introduction about the ministry, about the practice, but it's a legislative practice, it's so clear. Unfortunately, this government, by means of a strict regulation, has changed it and has actually singled out the insurance office from the police department and made it management. Why did she break the law because the regulation, therefore by means of a sublegal act, invalidated a legal solution because it seems to me in Articles 16 or 13, I am not sure the police law states that transactions within the Ministry can be done exclusively as part of the principal's office. I'm going to take this opportunity, Madam Vice President, since a month ago I asked the government for a regulation she has a classification of secrets, to see what's been going on with this here for a month I haven't gotten an insight into the regulation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u3037	Mr. Lucin, I'm obliged to warn you, you know very well that you haven't corrected any exact allegations, but you've misjudged the plate you've raised. On behalf of the HD ClubFor the esteemed representative Dražan Bošnjaković please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u3038	Madam President, like a bed and a co-worker. It is true that this law we had two months ago, but the proposer of this law two months ago was a club of representatives of the HDFor therefore it was not a government. This law, proposed by the government today, sets out competences that are certainly not in that first law of the 12th month, and I believe that these are actually very clearly determining which ministries have which powers. The committees also made certain remarks that were made through the amendments delivered today by the Government which were respected and thus I think that the law was even better cleansed. What every government has the right to do, it has the right to organise work and introduce the organisation of its state bodies, in a way that it considers to be the most difficult for the implementation of that policy it advocates and for the implementation of that programme that it has presented to its voters. This government and this party eventually said as part of their pre-election promise they would reduce the number of ministries and it was done. Whether this will lead to a more efficient faster and better administration I think that at first I should not look negative at it, but it will show time, but in each case it was not appropriate for Croatia to have 23 ministries and it is quite safe to see a smaller number of ministries as it is today. 14. And the way it's going to be done in the ministries will show time and we hope it'll be quality. In itself, this law would be too ambitious to say that it would automatically lead to a more efficient and faster administration, that a small man would feel it, and personally for the sake of these two months, I must admit that I did not get the impression that there were some huge waves of dissatisfaction amongst the citizens and that some kind of massive congestion in the work of the state administration came as we have heard here. But I just think that it's more efficient and faster and more quality management that it's a matter of one process and one process. Where this law is just one of the beginnings. And further and further informative equipment of these offices and the quality of people who work inside, and at the end and the wages that these people actually receive in these offices, it seems to me that we have had a negative selection in these offices for many years. Where, in fact, in the absence of funds in the state budget, I think that wages are significantly less than in some other segmentary ones. And the qualified people are actually leaving. People's dissatisfaction can't be, I think, because of what the law is passed in 12 months and now after 2 months, but people can be dissatisfied if some object stands for several years unsettled. And that can be the only reason. The HDFor this Law club will support it, and we are glad that already today the government has responded and delivered the amendments especially to those transitional provisions where it was indeed necessary to decedify when new state bodies start working. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u3039	Thank you very much. We're moving on to an individual debate. The first in 10 minutes of the debate came from a colleague of Milanka Opacic, please welcome.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u3040	So I'm going to start by agreeing that every government has the right to arrange the ministry and therefore the government's functioning the way it thinks it's going to work best. However, it should also be said that each government should be responsible and make sure that the complete system works if not better then at least as it has found it. Therefore, it is also important to take care of it. I will talk here today primarily about the social care portfolio, so also about a very rough and unnatural separation of what was in the system of the Ministry of Labour and Social Care primarily as regards social care. We warned about it, we said that the welfare system was very large, so a very large machine. That he's very sensitive about what he does with people, so he cares about a very sensitive category of people. Therefore, care should be taken to ensure that as little earthquakes as possible occur in the welfare system. Unfortunately, something was done that later proved to be bad, which is that the welfare system only took what was appropriate to someone. So only some segments were taken, and what someone didn't like was left in the system of the Ministry of Health and Social Care. If it could not have worked that way later, when we were able to read in the newspaper that we have the Ministry of Official Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity, however, that by the 9th month because of the inability to function the entire family system and everything that is related to family issues will continue to be in the system of the Ministry of Health and Social Care, not in this Ministry of the Family. So today we have an illogical situation, and that is to say, in the Ministry of Family Care, Oversight, all for children's homes for carefree children, and funding for this year is part of the Ministry of Health and Social Care. So home finances in one vault, and I don't know what to do in another vault. I don't know what that other resistor's worried about. It's also bad from the point of view of child adoption. Here you have taken homes for carefree children in the family ministry, and a complete adoption process is run by social care centres that remain within the Ministry of Health and Social Care. Whoever wants to do this, the one who has to take care that much less children have been adopted in the past year than it was in the previous year, which means that there is something serious to be done in this area, has to make sure that this segment can't be taken in such a way. So while this job is being done by welfare centres, it has to be united somewhere, and this is not how homes go to me, and adoption and centres go to another ministry. That's not how it's gonna work. I think it's bad from the point of view of people who work in welfare centers. He's got a very difficult job, and I think this is just a difficult circumstance for them, and it's no relief from their work. And in the end, I would like to say that certainly this law is already visible, has not led to any rationalization of costs. It only visually led to one by number of ministries of less government, but it by its financial means, by the number of people employed at the state secretary's office, by the number of assistants, by simply everything it does and financed as the state administration was not... /The speech room was turned off and then turned back on./... all that remained as before, so only certain cosmetic changes were made which here did not produce any results on the plan of any savings and rationalisation. And for all this, I will not personally support this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u3041	Thank you very much, fellow Opaci. Next up is my colleague, Leko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u3042	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, I think we should really start with the fact that the state administration is not for the sake of state officials or organised or even for the sake of the Government and for the sake of the Parliament, although sometimes they act as services of both the Government and the Parliament. The state administration is primarily for the sake of citizens and legal entities using the service of the state administration, for the economy of this country and for generations coming to regulate the country on the rule of law. If this is not a proposal from the HDZ Club, then it is a proposal from the HDZ Government, and indeed, the Government and Parliament can change such a fundamental law within two months as this and have the right to do so, but they have the right and the citizens of the Republic of Croatia to know the consequences of such rapid and unconstitutional changes to such a fundamental law as the Law on the Part-Corruption of Ministries and other state-run administrative organisations. The first proposal was a front for parliament to rationalise and reorganise the number of ministries, and of course it is attractive for citizens, but as a result. The consequence is that we now have an unconstitutional organisation of the entire state administration, because what is the difference between the ministry and the state office? What's the difference? Well, it doesn't make any difference. In fact, it doesn't make any difference. If we add that the availability of the administration to this reorganisation of citizens is almost impossible because even very skilled lawyers no longer know in which ministry or administrative organisation can resolve the right of some legal or natural person, so the citizen will then be suited to an ordinary person in the Republic of Croatia. What is the purpose of this reorganisation? The political need of the government. There's no rationalization in the new organization. There's no modernization of the administration in the new organization, there's no talking about it. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, There's no incentive for simpler solutions. Will this reorganisation make citizens pay less for a building permit? Will tax return be faster? Will it make it easier for him to exercise his disability rights? Will she be bigger? Is the state concerned about people with disabilities in one place for all kinds of people with disabilities? Well, it's not. Is the education and preschool age in the organization systematiced? It's not. Please, we cannot talk nicely about faster development in general and in general, nor about faster economic development if we do not consider that a very important barrier to this development is a three-way disorganised state administration. There's no way that a citizen or entrepreneur can get a property sheet, land extract, a building permit today. Do you know where to build in Croatia? Where are the zones? Well, it's the government's duty to organize and implement and offer to the citizens. We have approached the easiest form but on the burden of taxpayers any reorganisation without rationalization and modernisation is the most expensive job. It's a purpose to itself. In particular, something about laws, which are the ministries responsible for central state offices and which are the ministries responsible for state administrations, which corresponds to parliament for the work of the central state administration office. Who is this person, who is this ministry? What ministry is responsible for the work of, say, the state hydrometeorological institute, is that what we can read from this systematiced review of changes and additions? We can't. If we add more to that, colleagues are here saying that even... Let me speak, please. [[The speaker's off, you can't hear it.]] Please. How it will continue and in which the administrative body will continue to carry out administrative or other proceedings, when the date ends and the responsibility of the administrative bodies and administrative organisations which cease to operate under this Bill proposal ceases. There is no such thing in the transitional and final provisions, although in the explanation it says it is difficult to predict. It's not for everyone. Therefore, Article 27 definitely disappears from the state, the Croatian Privatisation Fund but does not know which date ends as administrative or any body. Who will take over his files and his actions, the new office, when, how will the citizens of these services know that. No, it's about that. Therefore, there is no reason to adopt this law in an urgent manner, it is contradictory to itself, which is why I think it would be really, reasonably and for the sake of the Government and for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia to design a system of state administration, its rationalisation and modernisation, and so designed to propose a new legislative project to last longer than two months and from one mandate of any government in any political sense. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u3043	Thank you. Honored representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. She's not present, she's losing her right to the word. Dear Representative Bozidar Pankretic. He's not present to lose his right to a word. Dear Representative Ivo Josipovic. He's not present, he's losing his word. Dear Representative Zvonimir Mršić, please welcome your colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u3044	Thank you very much, President. The same Law has not yet dried up on the National Journal of which the Law has been published, and by emergency procedure, the same Law is being amended. Should it remind us that at the end of the 12th month, we had a very demanding task to discuss only at 10 o'clock the three legislative proposals on the formation of the government, and not only that, but we were given a time until when we had to do so because we had to do it by midnight so that this very National Journal could be printed and that the next day could be appointed by the government according to the law that we passed a few hours ago. The prime minister then assured us that the government reform project, reducing the government, making it more accessible, the state administration available, and the government was more efficient and cheaper, that the project was being prepared for 8 months, that the experiences of many countries were primarily used by those entering or entering the European Union and were often referred to as the model of the German Federal Government. I'm surprised that after 8 months of preparing such a demanding project, it only took 8 weeks for us to re-emerge this well-prepared project of state administration reform once again by emergency procedure. I am asked a rhetorical question whether it would be interesting to see how and how much the emergency law would be passed if laws so passed had a clause that they could not be changed within the next 12 months of the moment of adoption. Not only that, but before we started discussing this law today, the government referred to our benches again, so also to the well-prepared text and to the new emergency procedure, we again have amendments by the Government itself. [[The speaker's off, you can't hear it.]] So it really raises the question why the government is now that we really have fewer ministries, when we have fewer ministers, did not take enough time to look at all the experiences that are being called upon, but also to see how this new structure of state administration, first of all, will function. Personally, I don't think it's enough for eight weeks to see all the effects of the functioning of such a reduced government, and I believe that that's exactly why we're going to have to change again very quickly the law that we're making today by emergency procedure. What I expected when we first discussed it, and especially then today, is that we really got this comparative review of what governments in the European Union look like, which makes the government, what their structure is, what their responsibilities are, and what is still linked to an effective, accessible and cheap state administration. Neither then nor today have we received that experience. I took advantage of that time, so I studied a little about what governments in the European Union look like, and I must say that if we want the Croatian government to look like the governments of the European Union, we will really have to change that law again, and I will be happy if we do so in order to really comply with the governments of the European Union. It has been shown that what some promoters have said, among other things, and suggested when the law was passed at the 12th month, it was not accepted, and today it is one of the reasons for amending this law. At that time, we warned that there was no mention of the regional self-government, that there was no central state office responsible for this, and now we see that this is one of the reasons for the change. But it did not re-emerge our suggestion to form a special central state office for local self-government, and I have set out in the procedure of amendments that I propose to form a special central state office that would deal exclusively with local, regional, regional self-government because we are about to adopt all legislation from local self-government, from local self-government law, the Finance Act and the regionalisation of Croatia. As a very demanding business was put in front of the central state administration office to reorganise the state administration, make it more efficient and accessible, I do not believe that it will have enough personnel resources and potential but also time to pay attention to this very demanding business that is expected by local self-government units, but above all, that are waiting for Croatian citizens to happen in the coming period. And I therefore really believe that it is necessary to form a new central state office for local self-government, and perhaps this is an opportunity to make it now that the Government supports the amendment that I have sent, or to propose its own amendments so that we are not in a position to change this Law very quickly again. The outstanding question remains from last time on how many people will remain unscheduled due to a change of law and thus be put in a position to lose their jobs. We have in the press a recent announcement from the economy minister that 15% of the people are surplus in this connected ministry. The question arises how many people working in the state administration will lose their jobs this year and on the other hand how many new people will be employed by the state administration at the same time. It is said here that the implementation of this Law does not require additional resources. That is not true, for it is certain that the implementation of this Law will require certain means. If anything, they'll have to print new cards for those who work in offices whose names are changed and some other things. But what would have preferred me to write in the light of this Law is that this, by adopting this Law or by amending this Law, there is rationalization and savings in the State budget, not that we will not have to allocate additional funds for its implementation. Finally, the question arises, indeed, why do we change so quickly by the urgent procedure of the law that we have passed by emergency procedure and whether we will not be in a situation to change it again because we have not taken enough time for those who are now in a position to manage the ministries, and some have very large organisations, so that they too look at all the shortcomings of that new organisation and then propose a more systematic amendment to the Law on State Administration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u3045	Thank you. There are no more reported representatives for the debate on this agenda point. If the Secretary of State wants to review Mr. Palaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u3046	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, I have to look back on a few issues that were presented tonight so I don't have any answers to those questions left. I repeat to the Croatian government are the president, vice presidents and ministers. It is 15 people and the government is for the first time since the beginning of the Croatian state such a small body. No one has had the power to create such an operational body and has any opportunity for state secretaries to be listed as members of the Government and who does so obviously does not know where the executives end up and who the Government is if they are government officials, but actually work in their portfolios. We do not accept the position to establish a special State Office for Local Self-Government because Croatian local self-government is in line with the European Charter of Local Self-Government. There are written and oral confirmations of the most important people of the Council of Europe. Of course local self-government needs to be upgraded. This central State Administration Office will deal with this as it has done so far in better ways. We're all in favour of rationalization, at the same time taking care of people who are going to lose their jobs. We have found an extraordinary solution, and this has stopped the employment of new people in the state administration and those who, after the natural outflow of the year, have gone their place not to fill it now, but to wait for this system of schedules to be carried out and for as few people to be left without a job as the Croatian Government and the social government is taking care of its officials and it will not run litigation with its employees so that officials can exercise their rights. But I wanted to say it like this. We don't do ourselves, but all the resistors do their jobs, and only the secretaries' professional services finish around the structure, but the less all the structures are, the formations of the ministries are complete and everyone is doing their job, and central government offices are responding to the Prime Minister, and then through him, this esteemed home. Here's what I suggest is that this law be passed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u3047	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. As regards the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Value Added Tax, the committees and the home body have not discussed. So neither the Legislative Committee nor the Committee on Finance nor State... Therefore, there are no conditions for the debate on this point and the Government has not delivered its opinion. [[/The intruder doesn't understand.]] Tomorrow we would be going with the following proposals, when, when we are finished with the Committee on Discussion at the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of Understanding between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the United States, protects the rights of intellectual property but since this Committee has a session at 9 o'clock then it will not be possible to start tomorrow's debate but we will go with that set of laws: Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prevention of Dispute of Interest in Public Liabilities, Bill No 14. Identical law number 43, same matter, that's what we'll do with a united debate. Proposal for a Law on the Transfer of Authorities, Proposal for a Law on the Procedure of Handing Over Authorities, Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Rights of Officials, those two laws, the same matter. We'll still see if there are any conditions for these remaining in order and order. This is the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Income Tax Act, number 44 and the same law number 12. Whether there will be reports from the Committee and the Government's opinion that there will be a debate. Now I'm setting an item of 15 minutes. 7th, Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Design and Part-Corruption of Ministries and State Administrations, an emergency procedure. The debate on the text is over. We have amendments. The special table is divided into representatives. What? ... Bill number 33. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] We have the first amendment of the Government that came after the deadline and pursuant to Article 166. The Rules of Procedure should vote yes or we will discuss this amendment. Who's in favour of discussing this amendment to the government? Thank you. Against? There isn't. Then, Ministers, present the contents.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u3049	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. The government is proposing to supplement the Ministry of Foreign Affairs with provisions that read: It provides assistance in providing them with entrepreneurship investment and activities. He's thinking of emigrants. That's the part where he ends up talking about the movers coming back. Therefore, with the aim of returning and moving, it provides advice on the care of older returnees and immigrants, encourages the return and immigration of young people and their education with state support. It's actually been a classic part of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs so far. We were going to do this differently, however, given that it was estimated that it would be better to remain in the area of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs we suggest that this text be complemented by this Government amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u3050	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. I can only discuss club representatives according to the Rules of Procedure. Are there any interested? There isn't. I'm closing the debate. I'm voting on that amendment. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Restraint? I find that with 87 votes for and 11 abstentions, this amendment of the government has been adopted. We are now going to review the amendments, to vote on amendments to the table. Amendment number 1 to Mrsic's representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u3051	The government does not accept this amendment, because we believe that local self-government care can be managed by the Central State Administration Office, which continues the activities of the former Ministry of Administration and which has, in fact, continued since the creation and establishment of local self-government to this day, led to concerns about the legality of work, structure and detour of local self-government and can continue to do so, clearly in a greater extent than it has ever been, since an independent body that will be taking care of the state administration and local self-government has now been established, so we cannot accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u3052	Thank you very much. Representative Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u3053	So the purpose of this amendment is to establish a special state administration for local self-government for at least two reasons. First because the central state administration office has a lot of work to do because the government has made a change of structure and that office will have to deal with it and increase the efficiency of the functioning of the state administration, and we also have a full set of legislation in the area of local self-government. And secondly, there's... there's a nature because we want to finally separate the state administration from the local self-government and in this way that we have two state offices, and the experience is that the current office that was operating within the Justice Department has not been paying sufficient attention to the local self-government. I ask you to support this amendment and request a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u3054	Thank you. Who is to this amendment that the government does not support? Thank you. Apparently he didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment number two becomes an integral part of the law. Amendment number 3 of representatives of Ivo Josipovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u3055	The government accepts. This is a nomotechnical correction of the wording of the Ministry's section.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u3056	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u3057	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u3058	Amendment to 4 of Mrsic's MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u3059	We don't accept for the same reasons as the former amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u3060	He's a colleague of Mršić's.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u3061	Well, I'm sorry that the government doesn't accept this, but I think that during the term of office we will meet the need to establish this state office and that it will be really big needs, but this amendment doesn't make sense since we haven't accepted the structure to establish such a state office, so there's no reason to describe it then. There's no need to vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u3062	Thank you. Amendment 5 is the Government, becoming an integral part of the law as well as amendments 7 and 8 and 9. And there remains an amendment of respected MP Walter Drandic, number 6. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u3063	We don't accept. The government remains firmly committed to the establishment and management of the Rescue Protection Board and all specific laws must be adapted to this Law on the establishment and division of the ministries.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-25-0.u3064	Representative Drandic is not in the hall, we must vote. Who is for this amendment that the Government does not accept? Thank you. He didn't get the votes he needed. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the final draft of the law. The adoption of the Law requires a majority of the votes of all MPs, at least 77 for, as provided for in Article 226. Rules of Procedure. Who's up for this bill? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? I find that, with 80 votes for, 14 against and 7 abstentions, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Establishment and Circular of the Ministry and State Administrations has been adopted in the text as proposed by the Proposer, together with the amendments adopted. Ladies and gentlemen, let's get back to work. According to yesterday's Janava, we have three draft laws on preventing conflicts of interest in the conduct of public duties. The first is the proposal of HSP's Club of Representatives, the second is the government's proposal. And the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the same law of the HNS-PGS Club of Representatives, LIBRE and IDS. In accordance with Article 223 of the Rules of Procedure, I propose that all three draft laws be awakened to regulate the same matter by having a united debate with representatives of the satellite clubs available for 20 minutes to deliver the position of clubs. Is the Parliament okay with that? Yes, it is. Thank you very much. So we're going to a united discussion of all three of these bill proposals. - Proposed law on amendments and additions to the law on preventing conflicts of interest in the conduct of public duties, first reading of P.Z. No. 29; - Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the prevention of conflicts of interest in the conduct of public duties, with the final proposal of the law – Proposers: Clubs of HNS-PGS. LIBRE and IDS, emergency procedure first and second reading P.Z. No. 31; Since it is the first order - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law to prevent conflicts of interest in the conduct of public duties, first reading of P.Z. No. 14; I ask the representative of the HSP Club to take his word. In the name of the HSPa Club, the respected representative of Slaven Letica, please be my guest.
