ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-03-0.u29394	Thank you, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. In front of you is the Final Proposal for a Law on the Croatian Memorial Documentation Archive of the Homeland War in the second reading. I would take this opportunity just to underline my differences with the bill's proposal, noting that we've already established the State budget for 2005. I must say that the funds for the start of the work of this institution are secured in an indicative amount of 2 million kuna and that it is also ensured that this institution can start working in the premises of the Croatian State Archives in Zagreb. So, in order to probably come up with a more complete and better solution, but not to interfere with the start of work. As for the difference between the bill and the proposal, they can essentially be classified as 4 differences. Namely, the first difference refers to the name of the institution. As you know in the first reading, there were objections to the word "center" and in this final proposal we decided to name the Croatian Memorial documentation archive of the Homeland War. Namely, this is really about the specialized archive and then we keep it needed and called the archive and thus remove any doubts about the name. In addition to such a solution, it also encouraged us that this institution, apart from its specialized archive, is also a scientific institution, but it applies the Law on Archival Materials and Archives and the Law on Scientific Work, as two parent laws apply. Another important difference is enlargement, i.e. activity, in the description of the activity of the archive. We have added to the obligation to collect and record data on humanitarian, cultural, artistic and other similar activities related to the Homeland War, as well as the collection and processing of authentic documentation created by the initiative and work of individuals and groups as a valuable witness to the events at the time. The third difference compared to the bill is the prescribed obligation for archives and other legal and natural persons who have the documentation to hand over to the Croatian Memorial documentation archives and have the right to agree on how to surrender and to make them a copy of the material. We feel that it is important to point out that the material will also be stored in modern forms of preservation. Therefore, in that case and for the previous owners, that material shall be provided with an appropriate copy so that they or as legal persons or natural persons may have documentation if they need it for their work, as is the case with other archives. Or individuals who, for emotional and other reasons, want to keep such material. The fourth difference relates to the submission of the Work Report of the Archives. In addition to the obligation of the Archives to submit an annual report on its work relating to the overall operation of the Government, the obligation to submit a two-year report to the Croatian Parliament on overall activity and results has been introduced. With one reference to the provision, it is precisely this provision of the proposed Law that the Assembly can always request such a report and thus gain insight into the work of this important institution. Here, these are the four fundamental differences arising from the debate conducted in this House and which we believe we have improved the Final Proposal of the Law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-03-0.u29395	Thank you. Do the rapporteurs of the Committee on Law, Labour, Social Policy and Health want? President of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture, Honored Representative Petar Selem. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-03-0.u29396	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The Committee on Education, Science and Culture at its 10th session on December 1st discussed the final proposal of the Law on the Croatian Memorial Documentation Archive of the Homeland War and concluded that the proposal that was really before us was promoted in relation to the previous versions we had. The primary debate was, or opened, about the name itself. As Mr. Secretary of State said, there were suggestions to be a centre, there were even constant doubts and fears that the name archive might in some way deprive the institution of its activity, so that it could somehow be pushed into some drawers and into some closed spaces. However, after much thought, we came to the conclusion that the term archive is the best because the institution is connected to the archive system of Croatia and to the Archive Act. Next, in Article 5, in Article 5, please, colleague, let me say so and we'll discuss it, shall we? In Article 5, I am open to all debates. In an explicit way, Article 5 rejects this fear because it says all the tasks of the archive and also highlights publishing activities, publications, organising lectures, organising exhibitions, organising scientific symposias. So one maximum openness to the public. I'm saying, I think that somehow compensates for the fears that might arise because of the name of the Archives itself and some of the connotations that that name and that term implies, that is, it drags behind it. But I'm saying, I think it's very good that this institute, let's call it that, binds itself to the archival system of Croatia which is one very firm and I think, mostly well-developed system. Next, there was a dilemma I must mention here...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-03-0.u29397	My colleague Selem, I'm sorry. You have here a report from the Committee and you need to transfer this report in an integral text without any additions. It's another matter of your debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-03-0.u29398	I'm just informed...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-03-0.u29399	Yeah, yeah...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-03-0.u29400	...about some dilemmas that were...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-03-0.u29401	What you wrote can be presented. That's right, and the other you'll get on the other side.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-03-0.u29402	Okay. I'll literally read it. The Committee therefore considered the issue as a parent working body. The opening statement was submitted by the applicant's representative. Participants in the debate agree that the improvement proposed by the applicants in relation to first reading significantly improves the normative basis for the successful work of an institution that will collect documentation and address issues of the Homeland War. In the first row, it will contribute to its qualification as an archival institution, thus ensuring the dignity and tasks of the institution, preventing any possible degradation of it, and the new institution is relying on a developed system and a strong tradition of Croatian archival activity. It is also welcomed to improve the description of the activity of the proposed archive through its extension in Article 5(1). After the debate was held, it is proposed that the Croatian Parliament adopt the Law on the Croatian Memorial Documentary Archives of the Homeland War in the form prepared by the promoters. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-03-0.u29403	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. The club of representatives of DC, HSLS, respected representative Frano Piploić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-03-0.u29404	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary of State. I would remind you at the beginning of this debate that at the first reading, when we all actually advocated that this law be passed by consensus, so I call upon colleagues and colleagues today when there is a vote to be present at least in this law, when they were not all together in the adoption of the Law on Croatian defenders, because it is equally important for this law, because it is an expression of our style, our unity to gather quality, professionally, scientificly, all the builds that are bound to the Homeland War because there is no, if the Homeland War as well as documents related to the Homeland War of Styria and the weather it will indeed be destroyed very quickly and very, very little will happen to someone else, and not what reflects the actual state of the Homeland War. So for the very beginning, I would support this pledge by Dr. Selem that and what was given here in this very final bill that this institution is being organised as an archive and not as a research centre because the archive as such should be the center of gathering facts, means building itself, storage, processing all these documents because they are really scattered everywhere in the field. And if it doesn't work quickly, professionally, organizedly, I'm afraid a lot will be destroyed. Because all that we are doing now and doing through the Law on the Croatian Memorial Documentation Archive of the Homeland War we are doing in terms of improving the quality of our memory, because without quality building there is no quality memory related to the Homeland War. Because if this, I say, memory is not fed and restored on the basis of verified, qualified, confirmed, scientifically confirmed documents, I'm afraid that memory will also be hybrid. To all of this we are bound by the victims of the Homeland War and by those military and civil ones, all of us commit to cleanse this memory of all these consoling things, of all that could harm him as such. This law, this proposal, is the final proposal of the law, goes in this direction to defend itself in one reasoned and in one documented way the Homeland War itself, and also to defend the dignity of its defenders and all those citizens who participated in it. And this is also a good tool, so one scientific tool, one scientific way to get to the truth about us, no matter how often it's uncomfortable, but it has to come to this truth that not one search for this truth in an unprofessional, one way that will actually degrade this legacy, degrade our society as such. In order to have what memory needs to be clearly cleaned up, it needs to be collected and scientifically sorted. And so cleaned, so, so collected clearly then what, that structure goes into memory, goes into inheritance, means also through school and other systems. Because it's very important that some things when the Homeland War is tied down, we sort, we agree, and I say this law goes in that direction to create such a basis for us because this art of inheriting the Homeland War will actually come into question and be politicized. Why am I saying that? We are witnessing today that the Homeland War as such is trying to classify itself in the category of criminal association for ethical cleansing, and we know very well that it is not. And if we're unique and complicated about this law and if we bring it uniquely and complicatedly and give full support. All these structures, all these documents will be collected professionally and quickly and days of use. The DC and HSLS Club, in order to make two three proposals to improve this law. In Article 5, we add another, one indent, meaning in Article 5(1) after the word "activities" in the new order is added a new 9th provision which reads "gathers data on bibliographic units, books, scientific and newspaper articles, discussions, bibliography, exhibitions etc., the Homeland War published in Croatia and the world. It leads to this an up-to-date database and through modern telecommunications and information systems ensure constant availability on these bases of the public." The explanation, meaning the work of the archive must first and foremost focus the quick and transparent reference of new researchers to previous research in order to be able to make maximum, rational use of the funds and archive collections for further research into the problems of the Homeland War. Also in Article 10(3) of the word "can" we propose to change meaning "will" behind the word of the statutes means that it will be established, that branches will be established in Dubrovnik, Sibenik, Zadar, Gospić, Karlovac, Sisak, Slavonski Brod, Vinkovci, Vukovar and Osijek will be established. Explanation. The main task of the archive is to collect construction on the Homeland War to keep it from going down. This task needs to be done quickly because the time that passes does not go into service, so employees who will cover each area must be on the spot in the cities closest to the battlefield and where it is built the most. It must not be allowed to create another large institution in Zagreb with dozens of employees but only the necessary technical and professional processing services and administrative staff must be at the centre, and the workers in charge of the collection must be as close as possible to the ground from which the building is being collected. This is also useful for saving on potentially high travel costs of field work. Clearly when we proposed this, we thought that both local administrations and self-government would be involved in giving the necessary space so that there wouldn't be any additional financial costs, just to improve the efficiency of this archive. Lastly, we propose to add the words "to the budgets of the units of local administration and self-government to donations by establishing foundations" in Article 17(1) behind the word "the Republic of Croatia". It means that it's also going to be the assets of the archives. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-03-0.u29405	Thank you. Honorable representative Željko Kurtov, Club of HNS Representatives of the PGS.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-03-0.u29406	The Honorable President, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The need is also unquestionable and everyone in the interest of the Republic of Croatia is the establishment of an expert body that would be involved in the collection, processing and preservation of the entire documentation and data on the Homeland War and the Homeland War. Only scientific chronologically arranged documentation from the Homeland War building can contribute to the truth and show the Homeland War exactly as it was. I must point out that there are various attempts to show war subjectively from where some individuals from the perspective that they have seen and experienced it. Such a relationship with events in the Homeland War only brings confusion and further cloudes the truth. Some members of the Homeland War do not necessarily do so from bad initiatives, they describe certain events in the war as they have experienced them. As a rule, they were not able to see the overall situation and judge objectively. One reason is their emotional experience of events. It is therefore necessary to create this Memorial documentation archive of the Homeland War in which the real and chronological truth would be investigated on the basis of documents. It is also in the interest of the Republic of Croatia to collect all relevant materials, process, protect against the influence of time, and also to preserve as an important part of Croatia's state-owned history. A large part of the building and documents are still in the hands of the commanders of the Homeland War. The proposed Law would oblige all holders of documents and materials that bear witness to that time to hand them over to the archive, thus allowing not only a better and more transparent insight, but also a more objective and true representation of the period in which the materials were created. However, the commitment of building owners to her surrender is only the first step in this important and complex business. It is necessary to ensure that all the buildings located in various state institutions and private archives are collected in a chronological order. Such collection and systematicization is a prerequisite for experts to the modern professional methods of processing available material. What we at HNS and PGS consider to be controversial is not therefore the need to establish this centre, but rather the way it is founded. Since the establishment and operation of the Croatian Memorial documentation archive of the Homeland War requires an investment of 2 million kuna to begin, it is necessary to examine the proposed model of the simplest and most economical and efficient. Since we do not, first of all, have all the relevant data in the statute of the archive itself, it is impossible to have full insight into the size of this project. In particular, given the possibility of setting up branches, how specific would these branches be, and how many would the ministry consider employees employed in this project? In the proposal itself, it would be useful to remove certain technical deficiencies and these are: Article 8(2) requires that the word "seeking" be replaced by the word "requestwev". Article 10 provides for the possibility of setting up an office and office in the archive. It's unclear who decides that, the Government, the Administrative Council or the Director. Article 11 states that professional and other tasks in the archive shall be carried out by persons who fulfil the conditions laid down between themselves and specific laws. It is unclear what specific laws are about. In Article 13.-6 of the Administrative Council, the archive shall be empowered to propose changes in the structure and organisation of the work of the archives. It is unclear who is proposed and who makes the final decision. In the territory of the Republic of Croatia there is a Croatian State Archives and the border of 13 branch state archives. They carry out archival services in relation to the archive material of state bodies, legal entities with public authority and public services operating in their territory. It also operates HYDRA, Croatia's Information Documentary Reference Agency, it collects, processes and stores and provides information on official documentation and information of the Republic of Croatia. The period of the Homeland War is now actively engaged except for the competent ministry and a series of organisations and associations that have data and documents from that period. If it is considered necessary to establish a brand-new archive because it is simpler, more economical and efficient, we are ready to support this idea as we have supported it so far. However, certain provisions of this proposal point to different conclusions if the work of the proposed Croatian Memorial Documentation Archive is not yet provided with the necessary space, the archive is planned to start working in the premises of the Croatian State Archives in Zagreb. Is there a question of the actual cost of setting up this Centre? What will be the cost of searching, adapting the new archive space? And how long will the search and transfer process take? These are not negligible questions, because we have been witnesses of well-intentioned projects that have never been fully implemented or whose ultimate achievement due to lack of funds was then willed to be purely satisfying the form, not the goal for which they began. It should also not be ignored that the Homeland War took place during the period as highlighted in the Constitution itself in 91, 95, it is obvious that the body that deals with this significant part of our history is sooner or later united with the body that studies all the important constructions of Croatian history with the Croatian State Archives. Once all the documents and construction are collected and collected, there will be no need for a large number of employees who would only deal with this period of Croatian history. Similarly, the creation of a specialised body that will deal with only the Homeland War is a danger to overlook, or not to stress enough the impact of social events and circumstances that preceded that period, which are certainly important for the understanding and evaluation of the entire Homeland War. We at HNS, PGS are aware of the importance of establishing this archive for the sake of the truth about the Homeland War. First of all, because of our public, the world's public, and most importantly because of the participants of the Homeland War and future generations themselves. Therefore, the CNS, the PGS, supports the adoption of this Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-03-0.u29407	Thank you. HSP MPs' club, divided by the first respected representative Pero Kovacevic, then Pejo Trčević.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-03-0.u29408	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The sad fact is that the Croatian government does not adhere to the Croatian Parliament's conclusion, a sad fact. We gave our bill in the third month this year. Then, in the fifth month, Minister Biskupic came to the club's president to make a final draft of the law immediately. After that, the government came out at the 9th month with what we've all agreed together as our bill of law. And in the 9th month, both laws were held at a session of the Croatian Parliament and the conclusion was clear and unequivocal. The Government of the Republic of Croatia is obliged to prepare the Final Bill together with the HSP Club. Is that what the government did? It's not. Does he respect the conclusions of the Croatian Parliament? He doesn't respect. And that's not good. And where does that lead? That's not good at all. And now what happened next? When we got the state budget, we saw no center, no center at all. On behalf of the HSP Club, we asked to determine why there is no center, which is. And now that we are coming, we are obviously coming to pressure ourselves from the Croatian Party of Rights Club and other patriots, the defender of Croatia finally came to this final draft of the law. The final draft of the law has come, how can it not give a guarantee, but it doesn't exactly give a guarantee, when will it work and in what form? He doesn't give a guarantee. And we could have done it at the 9th month to have a appointed director, the Administrative Council, to know exactly how many employees, when. And this way we're going to lose three, four months just in this process area, and when it works, no one knows, how it doesn't. Well, my people, for years, all it takes is for the paperwork to collect everything, objectively. You said in your proposal three million, now you're talking about two million. We said 4.5 million. I'm really not going to talk anymore, because this dissipates me in the further part will be spoken by Mr. Pejo Trčević, but let's take responsibility, according to Croatian defenders, according to Croatia's history, according to our children, our grandchildren. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-03-0.u29409	Okay. Dear Representative Pejo Trčević.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-03-0.u29410	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen. The great Serbian aggression against Croatia has resulted in the destruction of settlements and economic infrastructure, and the monumental heritage of large proportions, whose consequences we still bear today. But far more painful was the systematic violence against the population of Croatia. The consequences are tens of thousands of missing, dead and wounded civilians and members of the Croatian Armed Forces and hundreds of thousands displaced and exiled. For such injuries, only injuries in Bosnia and Herzegovina are more terrible, it is difficult to find a similar example in Europe's recent history. However, we are witnessing systematic cover-up and reduction of major Serbian violence against Croatia and its citizens. Efforts to equate guilt for these crimes and efforts to abandon these crimes to historical forgetfulness. In this regard, we point out that the Croatian Memorial centre is not a monument or a monumental complex, but an institution whose basic tasks are to effectively preserve the memory of all Croatian victims of the Homeland War, so both civil and military victims, the persistent spread of the truth about the victims of the Croatian people and the great destruction of our country throughout the Homeland War and the scientific breakdown of the causes, roots, flows, goals and consequences of major Serbian aggression on Croatia. The Croatian Memorial centre would have the task of getting out of oblivion and keeping the memory of all the victims of major Serbian aggression in Croatia, providing information support in war crimes processes, gathering and keeping all the documentation related to the great Serbian aggression, especially the one concerning the destruction of Croatian monumental heritage and the spread of the truth about Croatians' deaths and the destruction of Croatia during the great Serbian aggression on Croatia, and to oppose any attempt to reduce and cover up crimes against Croats. At the same time, we are witnessing the efforts of individual circles from the International Community aimed at equating victims and aggressors, i.e. showing a great Serb aggression on Croatia as a civil war in Croatia. In Croatia, however, there is a trend in forgetting everything that happened during that period. The reasons for oblivion lies in the utter mental exhaustion of Croats with the difficulties of war, but most of it is about so-called "war". Forced oblivion probably imposed by the International Community with the aim of achieving short-term political goals through the reduction of its own responsibility for crimes by international factors and through attempts to create a Croatian-Serbian balance in blame for war crimes. The task of the Croatian Memorial Centre and its importance in both domestic and international terms is best understood from the example of the Jad Vashem Centre in Israel, which is also dedicated to the fascioid project of genocide and culture of the Jewish people. More important, however, are political, sociological, demographic and historical and other scientific research into the roots of major Serbian aggression or scientific research of the body and the consequence of major Serbian aggression on Croatia, in which the Croatian Memorial documentation centre from the Homeland War should play a key role. A similar role as I said in the lighting of the holocausts over the Jews is played by the Israeli Centre Jad Vashem, who encourages and finance even special programmes over which a postgraduate study is carried out. That's why we think it doesn't fit the name archive, but with that theme if it deals, then it has to be the name center. The initial enthusiasm in researching the roots of major Serbian aggression on its fascist causes and genocide objectives and the determination of the responsibilities of key factors in the International Community for the course of major Serbian aggression, particularly demonstrated during the struggle for Croatia's international recognition, has practically ceased after, in particular, the signing of the Dayton Agreement and especially after normalising relations with Serbia-Montenegro. Both agreements and normalisation of relations with the Republika Srpska. During the aggression on Croatia i.e. In all the years since 1991, it has often been stressed in Croatia and the world that in Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina, what everyone thought would never happen again in Europe. Already, this fact points to the importance of trying and encouraging scientific research in this regard. It is also a contribution to Croatia's Europe and the world in the fight against evil genocide. Public communication funds in Croatia should pay special attention to the victims of Serb-četnic aggression in Croatia. To this end, the Croatian Memorial Documentation Centre should make specific recommendations and ensure the publication of advertisements and other information, the issue of periodic or special bulletins for the purposes of providing home and international information on its work as fully as possible. From this all said you could see why the Croatian Party of Rights Club cannot accept the name archive. Another archive is unnecessary next to the Croatian National Archives. The financing of the Croatian Memorial Documentation Centre from the State Budget for 2005 gives us the right to doubt that the Croatian Memorial Documentation Centre will ever live in its fullness. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-03-0.u29411	Thank you. SDP representative club respected representative Antun Vujic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-03-0.u29412	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! I'm glad we can support the course so I can say the growth of this material to this form that meets one of the ambitions that came from the original initiative. We can indeed recapture that the debate that was conducted in the first reading is to the greatest extent or in all of those elements that gave possible normative suggestions adopted and in this context I think we have received one law from which we can move towards the realization of this part of the initiative related to the Homeland War. Namely, the fact is that the original initiative that spoke about the museum-documentation centre here was only applicable in terms of archival initiative and the creation of archives, since the material that was then delivered by distinguished colleagues from the Croatian party of rights could not be the base, it seems to me that we must admit in this respect for the creation of all this which is now expected from the discussion and which, in our opinion, should also continue in terms of rounding up the entire complex of the Homeland War and related to the memorial, museum, monumental and then also archival structure. However, I think that at this very moment we can support this very law because it is a healthy start to systematize what may be the most crucial at this moment and what is an integral part of even our daily needs, so if you remember, if you want to remember, the debate at the last one has just shown at first reading to what extent it is important to respect for the law on archives and the possibility of active presence of the profession of archivism in preventing the kind of things that we have constantly swimming and these are different counterfeits, different transcripts that have no credibility etc., etc. I think that in this sense this law follows in this respect a good one-way direction and I think that even in this form it covers some of the remarks that have been heard here, and in particular the amendments that some colleagues have proposed here and which have nothing to do with, I think, the content of either the scale or the level of resolution of this problem. But it remains by what seems to me to be resolved both in terms of some dilemmas and perhaps in terms of adjustments that we will leave to the promoter to resolve them. In Article 8, which is important and underlines the obligation to hand over all legal and physical persons who have the documentation of the Homeland War on War, to the archives. There should be two different aspects. In any case, a legal obligation must exist and already exists under the law, but it is very important to distinguish the structure that, for which such an archive is interested in the building that is interested, for example, in the local environments. We certainly have a lot of demands and I know that there are them, that within the different ancient museums and so on this structure is being held. Therefore, here it should either formulate something or in some way leave a matter of good practice in order to resolve this difference between the needs of the state archive, the state archive as a whole, the specialized archive as well as one sub-division and regional and other interests to be exposed and available in one of the local communities and within different museums. But these are, I believe, all the technical elements that can be clarified. What is, of course remains as a question and where I also notice with a healthy view of saying the line in the criticism we heard here from the Right Party is the accommodation of the archive itself. I would warn of the path of resolving what is otherwise a legal obligation but is not yet realised, which is that the current building of the Croatian National Archives is certainly not suitable not only for further supplementation with this archive here but is not suitable even as a state archive as a whole. There is an obligation for the city and the state to build a new archive, a modern archive and such initiative, on this initiative, that initiative should primarily be revived and put into a budget for the coming years so that it will be together with the city and the state because it is a commitment and city as a city of Zagreb and the state to build a building of a truly modern archive as soon as possible, because this building that is now in line with the needs of the library and not one modern archive. I think in that direction we should look for a perspective of accommodation. I think it can start now as it's based here because it's a positive aspect of the solution to that thing, and I think they're expanding the initiative as it was launched should continue. It needs to be continued in several areas. One of these areas is certain and what is being warned here in terms of the experience that they cherish in that sense in Israel. I could mention the character of a Holocaust museum in Washington where it also has aspects of the museum-documentation centre and active activities. But these are all gradual stages that are different initiatives and in different ways should be addressed. One of the very important elements, which should also be solved, is that after much investment has been made in the archives of recent years, a number of new archival units have been built from Metkovic to Gospić, Štrigo, Požega and so on, that it is also working on the reconstruction of the central ones, but all together probably cannot replace the need of such a museum-documentation centre. I would suggest that what I am about to say in the add-on is not an initiative of some of the special parties but primarily that the government continues and some of the already existing initiatives. So there are two aspects missing. We support this law in this respect. We propose to continue where it cares, and this is with the construction of a monument to a country for which a broad consensus has already been obtained and for which the first meetings have already been held, where even the visualisation of the resolution of this issue has been proposed and received one support from the Homeland War Associations to the expert teams of the Association of Architects, the Council for Urbanism and so on and so on, and that it is also one of the initiatives to round up the Home War complex in a decent way. We all contribute to archives, and here in the development of all archives, I think we should also take care of the development of our archive here in the Parliament. In this sense, it may well be noted that everyone makes their contributions to the archive structure, and there will be one outstanding contribution to the archive structure of this archive. This is a contribution of 25 November made by Mr. President when he injured the Rules of Procedure in 3 points. So he injured the Rules of Procedure in 32/18 where the president is said to be obliged to take care of the protection of the rights of MPs. It is the right of an agent to be unmarked in a quorum in which he does not participate. When point 225./2 is injured, where the chairman determines the number of present...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-03-0.u29413	Thank you very much, Mr. Vujic. I remind you to stick to the subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-03-0.u29414	... Yeah, that's the theme of the archive. [[/The speaker doesn't understand, speakers speak out loud.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-03-0.u29415	It is the theme of the archive, and it is not the subject of any possible injuries to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-03-0.u29416	That's the theme of the archive and the theme of the bet I'm going to take on behalf of the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-03-0.u29417	First warning, first warning, first warning.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-03-0.u29418	Thank you very much. You can continue... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-03-0.u29419	If you continue with that, I'll take your word for it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-03-0.u29420	I think we understand each other. ... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-03-0.u29421	Here you go. Thank you very much. Dear Representative Damir Cain, IDS Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-03-0.u29422	Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor, Secretary of State, Your Honor, Mr. Representatives. The IDS Club has no objection to this Act, however, let the construction of the Homeland War be taken care of once already. If only we knew how many people were involved in the Homeland War. Whether it was a 300, 400, 500, 600 or more thousands. If there were 600 grand to make a joke, they would have won Stalingrad. However, this is also important because of material rights. For example, each defender has the right to a new law of defence to retire from at least 45% of the average salary provided that he gets all the conditions for retirement. In 10 to 15 years this will take place either in the Budget of the Republic of Croatia or in the Budget of the Republic of Croatia will require a billion kuna. Therefore, I believe that the position of the defender is properly resolved and we all agree here that this is how their position should certainly be treated. I was so happy not to say proud during the day before yesterday when, and I often mentioned it from this constituency, Guro Horaček of the Ministry of Defence in Pula received a 75-square apartment. Otherwise, as I said, I often mentioned Djuru Horaček for this pay phone, which, otherwise, as Major JNA, was spying on Croatia. He spent 4 or 5 years in a Serbian prison. In 2000, he returned to Croatia, lost his apartment, and then lived for 4 years in the Refugee Centre Kamenjak in Pula with a woman, two children in a 30 square-square room, and that's the day before yesterday he got an apartment. He was happy. I was going to put it that way, happy me too. So I repeat, on this example, we helped a man who may in some small way be written about in this archive. In this law that is here before us, according to the IDS Club, only one point is bad. The headquarters of the archives by us should not be in Zagreb. I've been a Parliamentarian since I was 95. I come every week once or twice to Zagreb and I love this city and I look forward to every success of the city of Zagreb. However, the city of Zagreb is the most developed centre in Croatia, the only city of Zagreb and the county of Istria have a gross product at this time percapital per capita above the republican average. All other counties are well below the republican average. In the worst position are those areas that were affected by the war until yesterday. In the worst position I dare say is the city of Vukovar. So according to Club IDS, the headquarters of this archive must be in the city of Vukovar. That city certainly deserved it. One who doesn't know what war looks like must go to Vukovar. From 91 to today, it's been 13 years, but the city still looks more like a ruin than a city. So 20 or 30 jobs are more needed today to the city of Vukovar than the city of Zagreb. Investment in this archive with the rest of several million kunas is certainly more necessary than the city of Vukovar. I believe that even the citizens of the Sprš nationality are also required to find their place in the archive. There are no two truths about the Homeland War. There is only one truth but it must clearly be written objectively. Croatia has been the victim of the Vukovar Jez's greatest witness but there have also been some behaviours that are comprehensible to the war. Paola's court, Paki plain, Laura and so forth. But I don't want to talk about it. Let it be written in this archive. Or at this memory center. On Sunday, you can see her with the guests of Stanovic's Akadmik Bilandzic. At the end of the show, the vote showed that some 60% of Croatian citizens support some of my foreign values while only 40% of the Partisan movement. The citizens of Istria were disgusted, and I was also trying to send these signals, but I lost a lot of it. I've been called NOB fighters old people, partisans, peoples asked what's going on in this country. We fought for Croatia, but what are the chances in Croatia where 60% is closer to NDH values than to the Partisan movement. That's why gentlemen also consider equating the disabled with World War II and the Homeland War. Keep that in mind. The fact that this government removed Francetic's monument to remove Budak's street, from Dubrovnik to Gospić and so on. Or that she had the strength to pay off the rabbit family's damage, which is all praiseworthy gesture. And I welcome that. As I welcome the solution to the Đura Horachek case I was talking about. However, this II-war population should be resolved. For the end of the IDS trusts this law. Someone in this law will only recognize 20 or 30 jobs, but this archive, with the role of describing what was happening in Croatia from 91 to 95 or 97, means the dates of peaceful reintegration. There may also be an assignment to reconcile some national conflicts. Clearly all things according to the truth in that, let justice be done even if the world fails. And the aggression of Croatia is clear no one can shut up. As no one can deny the victim of Vukovar. So let the archive be this window into a historical truth and let it gather the build that will make us, I dare say, a responsible nation. A nation that is not ashamed of its history but also of a nation that has been recognized as being able to recognize some of the supplies. If this archive acts this way I think it will profit the country, if it behaves otherwise it will harm the Republic of Croatia. I wish him good luck, and indeed once again I invite all of you to consider the amendment IDS to be the headquarters of this archive in Vukovar and not in the city of Zagreb. I repeat, no one has anything against the city of Zagreb, but at this time one of these institutions in Vukovar is much more necessary. I think the citizens of the Republic of Croatia would agree to that, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-03-0.u29423	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the respected representative Krunoslav Markovnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-03-0.u29424	Mr. President, so here's one false quote from Mr. Caine's false comparison was if there were 600,000 of them, they would have won Stalin's city. We know that the Nazis conquered Stalingrad so that every protest with Croatian defenders was very ugly, because Croatian defenders defended their own homeland and failed around. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-03-0.u29425	Dear Representative Frano Matušić is correcting the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-03-0.u29426	I thank Mr. President, here's how an untruth can actually cause confusion, namely, it is not true that 60% of Croatian citizens voted on the show. It's true that out of 60% of those who have reported, that's a far smaller number, is something that's 60% of the citizens. The more some of those who came forward, the more they voted, the more you did what you admitted.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-03-0.u29427	Prosperity deputy Josip Djakic corrects the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-03-0.u29428	Mr. President, I will correct the inaccuracies of fellow Caine, in which he claimed and compared that Paolin Dvor, the Pakratska Field and the rest of the places he tried to build a compromised Homeland War. No shadow compromise is at stake, and it can't work until there's a rightful verdict of individuals that they've committed if they've committed any acts that haven't served them honorably. And you can't possibly compare Paolo's Court to compromising the Homeland War or the Pakraland. It's nothing to do with the connection. These places to compromise the Homeland War as places. There are only possible individuals for whom there are not yet adjudicated verdicts and pending court proceedings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-03-0.u29429	And the esteemed representative Marian Bekavac corrects the inaccuracies.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-03-0.u29430	Thank you very much, Mr. President, it is an incorrect allegation that colleagues are the People's Liberation Broba that should be resolved in a financial sense. I think they've been solved in the best possible way by good pensions and all possible privileges that all other residents in the former state could dream.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-03-0.u29431	The Croatian Democratic Community's club, the respected representative Kresimir Cosic, is here.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-03-0.u29432	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. First of all, a few words about the reasons for the adoption of the Law on the Croatian Memorial Documentation Archive of the Homeland War as a specialized scientific public institution of the Republic of Croatia. I would say the next great pleasure is to realize the fact that really after a long, perhaps too long time, we are one step ahead of the foundation of such an important institution. A whole series of reasons show that it was really important to establish that institution to establish a foundation long before, for various reasons, it did not happen, and I say not only because of this, but because of the urgent need of the HD ClubIt will give full support to the foundation of this institute. No matter what dilemmas its name should look like, whether it should be the center and whether it should be the archive. Several copies of the views of the Government of the Republic of Croatia relating to the reasons for the foundation of this so important institution. In the Republic of Croatia over the past years, several different research projects on the Homeland War have been launched, hundreds of professional books and articles published on the same topic. In both cases, it has been observed that a significant number of these researches are based on unverified, unverified, professional and scientifically unprocessed documents and such a state is going on, I would say for almost 10 years, and this situation has been inadmissible. Such displays rest on data collected, such as articles, interviews, media comments, which rarely reflect only subjective assessments, I would say the interests of events and processes from a recent Croatian history. The lack of collected, processed and processed material, as well as its inaccessibility for cutting users, results in the inability to identify objective facts, and very often opens the possibility of creating arbitrary, not well-intentioned conclusions. The fact is that such a situation is happening in the Republic of Croatia for almost 10 years is unsustainable and I would say free, disorder and chaos that has prevailed over our recent history, over the Homeland War it is unacceptable and I believe that the foundation, not only by the foundation of this institution, but by its quality responsible and professional work, will end this state. It became clear to me a long time ago that something was wrong with our recent history, that there was something wrong with the Homeland War, that there was something wrong with the wide picture of the history of the Croatian people, and that I wanted to say a few words. I also associate this with some comments that have been possible to listen to in these rooms for the last 50 years, and they have come down to the following conclusion and the fact: Nothing changes so quickly in these spaces as history, and that is a state of concern and that is unacceptable. Here, I remember in 1993 of an olive operation when he called me urgently to Zagreb then Chief of Staff General Janko Bobetko. At the time, fighting over Kasic lasted, there were some problems, difficulties, and he asked me to personally inform him what had happened in that place. In those days or days before, 16 Croatian defenders died, 20 wounded, and I should have come to Zagreb in a hurry and come to know the facts of the Chief of Staff. I point that out for one fact, because it's forgotten too. Then it was impossible to come to Zagreb from Zadar. It was impossible. It was the time of that day somewhere in February 1993, a strong storm. The Crescent-Siglen ferry was not driving, the ponton was gone, the road was gone and I left at 10 o'clock on the ferry to Rijeka and the road to Rijeka lasted almost until morning. At 10 o'clock the next day I came to Zagreb. The road from Zadar to Zagreb lasted 12 hours. These are facts that are forgotten. I met this one man who was in that white uniform. A representative of the European Community, saw me also in the HV uniform, approached me and said, "What are you doing in the Zadar hinterland?" He saw that I had certain acts, I think at the time I was a brigade of the Croatian Army and he referred me to the precepts of what the Croatian Army is doing in the Zadar hinterland. I talked to this man almost by morning and I realized that he recently came as a representative of the European Community and knew absolutely nothing about the history of the Republic of Croatia, about the history of the Croatian people. His views were extremely hostile and unacceptable, incorrect and unfounded. We talked until morning. He knew nothing about the 1974 Constitution, he knew nothing about the Badinter Commission and the findings of the Badinter Commission, and I found the fact that he was briefed before he came to the Republic of Croatia from the relevant institutions that acted in the place from which he came. These were Yugoslav institutions that less all the people who came to these places indoctrined in one unacceptable, incorrect way. And this shows the next fact that we have to worry about, that this untruth, not only about the Homeland War but about our history, is not only a problem that we face in the Republic of Croatia, but it is a problem that exists in many institutions, archives and other important libraries around the world. And it's a task, and it's a picture that we need to change responsibly and systematically, not through improvised media advances, tendently, unobstructed in the interest of individuals, of individual interest groups, and therefore I believe that the foundation of such an institution is extremely important, and we need to give it full support. I said it and I repeat it, I thought it personally, and I think we all thought it was very naive, too, that the truth is something that exists in itself and that it can't be compromised. And we thought it was 95th and 6th and 7th and so on. Then unfortunately, we faced a reality that showed that the truth is not a static not a time-invariate category, but that the truth is something that can be easily managed, which can be shaped when, who and how it should be, and it's just a question of who it is, how and to what extent it's organized or disorganized. They forget the fact that we had recently, not recently, 15 years ago, a slightly smaller attack on the Bane Courts, that we had an air strike on the Sljeme communications centre, that we had multi-plotters inaccessible weapons in the centre of Zagreb. Therefore, this forgetting factor should be reduced and the only thing that is a systematic solution is the establishment of such an institution. I want to talk about some more things. We will establish a listed institution, but we have to make sure today that documents and citizens that enter that institution can be as they say contaminated and infected inaccessible, because we enter archives into this important institution of documents that are falsified, not elsewhere, but in the Republic of Croatia, and these documents have been falsified and done by people who are sitting in the institutions of this country today, and that is the state that concerns us and therefore special attention when such an institution is founded, must bow down to the validation and verification of every document that enters that institution, because future historians and analysts cannot happen, scientists work with documents that are unexistent, which are altered. Changed in terms of your content. I have said and I repeat, I have witnessed both those events and the Brijuni, and I am truly sure that this document is not authentic and cannot present a document on the basis of which an inadmissible picture of Croatia's recent history, about Croatian reality is formed. Several concrete proposals and perhaps comments concerning certain articles of the Final Bill on the Croatian Memorial Documentation Archive of the Homeland War. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. I think it's very important, I welcome and emphasize. The archive is established as a public scientific institution. And in that sense, when we form a public scientific institution, then we have to take care of the law, of scientific and research activities, and there are very important views of the Ministry of Science. When we talk about scientific activity, we need to distinguish several aspects within the framework of this institution. That aspect of scientific activities relating to the archive itself, standards that must be respected in the operation of archives, technologies, documentation, internetisation and information. The archive, it's an important thing, but equally important and I would say the crucial and most important thing is, in fact, the ability of this institution, i.e., that archive to give quality, analytical and responsible and objective interpretation of documents that stand in the mood. Falsified documents cannot be an integral part of an archive building and should do everything possible to prevent such documents from being over which they will be arbitration in the future. Furthermore, Article 9 quotes: "Archive submits once a year a report on the work and business of the Government of the Republic of Croatia". That's normal and very good. Secondly, "on its overall activity and results achieved, the archive submits a report to the Croatian Parliament every two years and/or when it requests it". I would say, it is not good and I suggest that we make an amendment, and I believe that you will adopt it, that the Croatian Parliament is informed as well as the Croatian Government of the work of the archive once a year. Furthermore, he would propose specifically the following, in order to give a strong incentive as soon as possible before the quality of the institution's work, that after it was founded, whether the period of 3 months is too short can't justify it, but not for more than 6 months. The people who will lead this institution should present to the Croatian Assembly the programme of their work and propose an organisational structure which is the basis of the quality and functional work of this archive in all important aspects of the archival building and its preservation, manipulation with this archival structure and that other important aspect of this scientific processing. For all these reasons, certainly as I said at the beginning, the HDZ Club supports the strong foundation and start of the work of this institution because the past 10 years has shown all the shortcomings that we had in the wider political, but I would also say to the overall scene regarding the creation of the truth of the Homeland War because such an institution did not exist and did not function.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-03-0.u29433	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of Zeljko Kurtov.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-03-0.u29434	I am correcting my colleague, distinguished colleague Cosic, that we are not a step to the realization of this Memorial archive. I think this is just the beginning of a once-traveled road for that archive. I think we've got a lot more steps to get this archive to live up to the way we imagined it here and how we'd like it to be.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-03-0.u29435	The club of representatives of HSS, the respected representative of Željko Ledinski. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-03-0.u29436	Dear Mr. President, dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Allow me to say a few words on behalf of the Croatian Peasant Party's Club on the Bill's Proposal, or the Homeland War Memorial Documentary Archives. First of all, the Croatian Peasant Party supports the adoption of this Act, although I would say that we may be closer to the name proposed by the club HSP, that it is called the centre. What makes me say that? Well, I think in private, if by the way of the archives, I believe it won't be as broadly explained as it would be one center that would be engaged in complete research, especially the Homeland War. Since it has been many years since the start of the Homeland War, and since the end, so we can support all the reasons that are mentioned here and are related to the establishment of such a center. He could probably have been far ahead of the basics, so today we might be able to talk more easily about many laws that have been passed, and here is the last one about Croatian defenders. Such an archive could certainly help to make more quality and better all these constructions, and at least we, here we were participants and active Homeland War, have often been able to read in some books the personal sightings of individuals who were far from the battlefield and were not on that first line. I also agree with the need to look at one width of that problem and that those of us who may have been in command on the front lines, we may not have seen everything that's going on around us, but I also think that those who have been far behind the first line also couldn't see everything that's going on. And often they had a lot more time to write about it. That is why I think it is necessary first of all to give one great importance to the very implementation of this Law and that its implementation must begin as soon as possible. So that as soon as possible and as high-quality as possible we can have one, then a complete picture of all the events that are important to our near history. When we talk about it, we certainly need to say that all military actions need to be dismembered. One large part has already been made, it and exists in our documentation with the Croatian Army and the Police. Because only one military scientific and professional breakdown of all operations can then give one full representation of what these operations meant in certain parts and areas. And in this way we will allow that we have documentation that can help in many ways, we would probably have been able to help with the faster return of our generals who are coming back today, but maybe some others shouldn't even leave if we had quality documentation in time. Here I agree with Mr. Cosic about how we really should have had it a long time ago. Today, in many ways, it would be easier and easier for us, and we wouldn't have such problems that came up afterwards, whether often and malicious. And in that part of the profession, first of all the military, police and others who participated in the actions, I think it must give that documentation that will be that not only not forget but also enables it to keep the memories of our troops on the battlefields, on those glorious days. Here, I'll say, tomorrow is the anniversary of the same unit where, here's my colleague Djakic and I took part, 13 years from the death and from our fellow fighters. But also, I'd say 13 years since the South Army's last ground attack was stopped in Eastern Slavonia. Such days certainly must be appreciated and remembered by all of us, not just those who participated, but all together. Let me say, here, even in the end, this Law will certainly enable when a faster establishment of everything I've talked about is passed, but also one easier implementation of all the laws that are related to it than the rights of defenders and others. And here, the HSS Club supports the adoption of this Act and I would like it, and since so far all clubs have expressed support for this Law, that perhaps these few amendments by the government's representatives until the very vote of agreement and that we enter into a common consensus on the adoption of this Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-03-0.u29437	Thank you. There's been a debate over clubs. We're going to an individual debate. Dear representative Ivana Sučec-Tracostanec.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-03-0.u29438	I thank Mr. President and also like all clubs I support, and in my first reading I made it clear, the establishment of this centre for all the reasons that Mr. Cosic said on behalf of our club. And you might just add, well, that I'm very pleased that the promoter changed those things that we, as first-readers, indicated that we should do. And that's to regulate this building property with individuals and individuals who don't even know who they exist with. So it's been expanded that the archive doesn't just have official documents relating to military troops, it's going to collect all those documents that paint the situation that we were in from 90th to 96th in that part that's not strictly military. So also in collecting humanitarian aid and in organising the civilian population because I have to repeat, it's easy today ex cathedra to talk about some time with a time distance of 15 years although a lot of the inhabitants were involved personally, there are those who are not. So talking today about that time is quite different if you were a participant of it inside or if you were an observer of it outside and an effective relationship but also a ratio of respect for those values. So what I think will contribute besides naked to say, documentation activities is also respecting this time and respecting the people who have allowed us to discuss this here in the Croatian Parliament today. And I hope that, over a very short period of time, unfortunately for now, there is no space that would definitely only give them a place, but that, within the archives, that activity will begin in a way that is worthy, scientifically, with respect for that time of painting, and then those who are going to be doing writing and, fortunately these days, there are a lot of books that paint that time from other cancers than there have been in the last three, four years. So there are also the books of Dr. Tomco about President Tudjman who paints some new moments both around our activities in Croatia and in neighbouring Bosnia. So things become more public in a true way more accessible than those people who took part in it and the documents we have will improve that picture. And may I be allowed to say from this pay phone that I am as a resident of the county from which General Markac comes, who is an honorary citizen of the city of Djurjevac extremely happy that he will be home. And that is why I think that this law is also part of our story and our duty to talk about the Croatian Homeland War and these events in a way that is true with piety, with respect and with love. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-03-0.u29439	Thank you. Replica, the esteemed representative of Shima Lucin.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-03-0.u29440	Thank you very much. I agree with my colleague about the fact that this centre should enable or archive, as we will call it, that books should be written on scientific grounds and that they are based on the truth, because it would not happen as in some past time that some who wrote books unfounded on scientific truth actually become some element of certain indictments in The Hague court. As for Mr. Markac, I would be happier if he had returned for Easter in Croatia, not today. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-03-0.u29441	Replicate reply, representative of the Sučec-Thrakostane Ivana.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-03-0.u29442	Of course you Mr. Lucin don't share my happiness because if I may say so, Mr. Markach is personal to me, and I am closer to him than you and Mr. Markach, and that's what people who listen to us will understand. And I won't talk about past times. There are past times that are great for Croatia, there are those that are less brilliant but I am happy that I have God's mercy to be a participant of this most brilliant time, so these past 15 years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-03-0.u29443	Dear Representative Stjepan Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-03-0.u29444	Dear Mr. President, members of the government. I am pleased to have before us in the second reading of the law, the final bill on the establishment of the Croatian Memorial documentation archive on the Homeland War. It is good that he came, and even now, although I think we are already very late and that many things might have happened differently in Croatia's international relations if we had the right archives, that we had documentation that we had not kept but would have presented to our public and international. But now that we are in a position to finally have a material that promises to be brought to life, yet an idea that has long been present with many about the need for the establishment of this center I would say that perhaps the name "Centar" would still be more appropriate because the center and symbolically marks a living institution and the archive itself speaks of a static institution. And now we could talk about the title, but what matters is what this archive is going to do. So he, along with what he's doing, collects the guards, etc. has one of its own tasks, which is research, scientific research and publication. And I think that these are the most important things that this center, or archive, should do, which means in research to commit itself to researching the cause of war and that it is explained in detail that all of those materials from the "SANUA" Memorandum and the activities of institutions in the former Yugoslavia and the Orthodox Church at that time should be disclosed. And the second is publication. I think the publication of this building should be regular and systematic, either through one special publication or through the obligation to have one column in the daily and weekly press, and also on Croatian Radio and on TV. We had a cartoon about the Homeland War that appeared in front of the diary and I think it was useful and I don't understand why it was lifted. Some will say we can't live in the past, but I'd say it's important the past doesn't forget. And what's happening to us is that the latest history is kind of forgetting that it's being covered up and that it's turning the facts around, and what's inadmissible. Therefore, the purpose of this center or archive as it is now called should be in that direction aimed at making it our generations to come, who were not witnesses of the events to have something to learn about their recent history that they therefore know that history but that they also respect it. And what's most important to us as a nation is that we don't allow history to be written by others. Croatian history should be written by Croats, I would remind you that Jewish history is unimaginable to write Palestinians. What is most important in all of this, from these elements of this building that will be collected Croatian people must draw elements of self-esteem, and then they will have confidence, then they will be able to solve all the problems that surround us and that are ahead of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-03-0.u29445	Thank you. Dear Representative Jagoda Maja Martincevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-03-0.u29446	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I would say that this proposal, the Final Proposal for a Law on the Croatian Memorial Documentation Archive of the Homeland War, is in some way also attached to the law that we voted on Croatian defenders the other day. It's about a complex matter that includes not only the acquired rights of defenders but also the duty of defenders, and they are certainly the most important part of the Homeland War, this institution, no matter how we call it true. But I would have gone not from the beginning of what I wanted to say, but specifically from Article 8 which says that legal and physical persons who have the documentation of the Homeland War are obliged to hand over the archives. In what way will we accomplish this duty, all of us together in this country, when those public calls for the handover of weapons from the Homeland War failed, did not give birth to what was expected? Why do we think that someone will return or surrender what they have today when it is so popular and profitable to deal and thus create their "public image" with documents and those of the Homeland War who at certain times could certainly be useful, and have proved to be actually quite counterproductive. So I don't know what the method is, of course not repressive, but what is the method of making all those who keep it in their private drawers and waiting for a good time to use it in what way are we going to get them to hand it over? Furthermore, as for the dispute over the name of the center, the archive, I would say that, with the change of the center into the archives, I actually wanted to rule out that socialist Kumrovek tradition of some sort of memorial room that all of us as children had to go to to see a gun or some kind of document, and we didn't really know anything about it. So, this time, if we waited 50 years for our own country, and now for almost 15 years, we've been waiting for a body like this, it's starting to think of one completely different, and that's, above all, a scientific and true approach to one, about one establishment where no one will force themselves, which will primarily serve scientists to finally make some real truth, if there's real and guilty, maybe I've misrepresented myself. It is very important that what counterpart Cosic said about this, about the abuse of documentation that may arrive at that institution, that is, who will know, be able to decide what is and what is not true. To this end, it is perfectly safe to appeal to employment regardless of the form in which truly scientists, young scientists, who will be able to find what they are and what they are not, so that falsified data in this way would not continue to flow. I am very happy that my proposal on the first reading of this Law on collecting range results or at least trying everything that happened in the Homeland War is in culture, art, humanitarian activities that will also get its place, because I don't think it's an irrelevant part of the Homeland War. And when we talk today about some historical events from II. The world war on these premises, so that just with artists with what they said or plotted on some occasions as well as at that famous convention in Topusco, we can be very pleased. I would also agree with a colleague from DC who proposed the establishment of branches in cities that were the greatest victims of the Homeland War. This could be related to the discussion I don't know who else here, who believes Zagreb should not be a centre in which such an institution will be established. I think that Zagreb must simply be the centre at the moment, because it can provide the best logistics for all the advances that are yet to come for this institution to live. And it is certain that branches with persons on the ground, but persons who are not just witnesses, who are also scientists, can certainly help to gather them. Perhaps we could still discuss how to actually call this institution in this second reading, it took place as a Croatian Memorial documentation archive simply because it is necessary to bond with a firmly established archive activity in Croatia. But it is also true that both the archive as a term and as an institution are a little associated with something that is not alive. Perhaps another option should be considered as to what might be called, perhaps the Historical Documentation Centre with archival activity, in any case the name of such an institution is not as important as how it will function. And it must primarily function today 15 years after everything that has happened on scientific foundations and must never allow anything to be falsified because in daily politics in what is happening in this country every day that we can read about in daily newspapers and listen to in all media documents continue to serve as personal political promotions, documents are not today in daily politics on which we can base the history of the Homeland War for future generations. Therefore, I absolutely support this Final Bill proposal, it is not great, it is very clear, it will probably still be done in some details, I think that colleague Petricevic will talk about another extremely important segment, which has entered a lot in the Homeland War, which is our emigration that is not mentioned here at all, and which has also taken a number of actions of a wide variety of character and I suppose it will be included in one of the articles of this bill so that this activity will also be recorded, in parallel with all other activities that have been related to the Homeland War, but I claim exclusively based on the truth, and not on counterfeits. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-03-0.u29447	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect quote, representative of Shima Lucin, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-03-0.u29448	Thank you very much. It's an incorrect allegation that the collection, voluntary weapons collection, has been a bad action in months. Since this action, therefore by implementing the "Good-bye weapons" programme, has collected tons of weapons that have been burned or destroyed in high furnaces. Even the United Nations took over the program and applied it in our neighboring countries and in some African countries. Therefore, I am convinced that if this is the way to approach and collect archival buildings from the Homeland War. So, if the goals are explained, use of this material so that the results can be good.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-03-0.u29449	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we have a visitor to the assembly. And our work today will be accompanied by students and students and teachers of the School of Economics and Commerce from Čakovec, so let us welcome them. Dear representative Ivanka Roksandić. [[Applause]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-03-0.u29450	Thank you. Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues, dear students and teachers from Čakovec! Well, at first, I must really show my satisfaction that all the participants of the debate have so far supported the establishment of such an institution and I hope that everyone will vote for the adoption of this law. Why do you need a facility like this? Well, first of all, so that events from the Homeland War don't rest on persuasion or conjecture that often go untrue. A lot of material is in drawers, it may never be used, and I must tell you that I am also a participant of the tour of the area affected by the war after the Homeland War, I have visited schools and cultural institutions in my profession in Sisak-Moslavina County and collected documentation from these institutions. And I can tell you that many of the records, I could say the papers, the phonebooks went missing, that people were collecting them and keeping them as their private property, wanting to have some kind of memory from that period, but I really don't know what they're doing to them right now, and we're doing business and everything that happens after the war, and I can certainly serve them. It's a good thing there's a facility like this that we called the archive here and I see there's a dilemma about the name, and I was alone in this dilemma, and I hope it's not just going to keep the building in the basements, but it's going to do its scientific processing, it's going to expose that building, and it's going to be all for the purpose and publishing of publications, magazines, professional literature that's going to be available to everyone. As well as my colleague Martincevic, I must welcome this decision and enlargement in Article 6 where we have now introduced that the building must be collected and that this institution will collect build and from the field of art because we all know that there has been a whole series of works of art, good works that can talk about the time in which it was created. All needs to be recorded and humanitarian actions, because other than those who were the main participants of this Homeland War, these are our defenders many volunteers, those logistics that were not visible but which contributed significantly to everything that was happening on the ground and their documents should be recorded there are indeed many. Believe me, they're in the private area right now. I hope that the construction of this facility will be available to everyone. Here I think of future young generations here in this assembly precisely because of the truth about the Homeland War not only historians and scientists but all citizens. And in this way, that Article 1 of this proposed law will be fully implemented and that this is a fundamental and fundamental study of the truth about the Homeland War and the introduction of the public in the country and the world to established facts. I also support a number of suggestions from my colleagues who spoke in this debate to quickly find accommodation, separate accommodation for this institution. It can temporarily be an integral part of the State Archives but it can be a truly separate institution in order to gain its importance. Well, at least she and I believe that can be solved by the statutes of the institution has these branches too. She would support this if her centre were in Zagreb. There are indeed the largest number of scientists here, people who are involved in research and who, above all, are able to say something from that scientific point of view but I think that in the statute of the future institution, our institutions that we are going to vote on can be resolved that it has its own structure and branches which would certainly be good for the collection of buildings and for the efficiency of people and participation in the field especially when it is related that everyone has to hand over these buildings or is directed through that Article 1. I would say a public appeal for the surrender of such a building. And maybe in the end I'll just suggest. Maybe it's not good, I don't know why, probably because of the law on archival structure that has it, in article 5, and in a series of other articles where the material is mentioned. It is common to say about school material, the material in question, and the structure is said to be historical, archival, and perhaps this would be one suggestion that in the final version of this law when it comes to publication, perhaps the proposer himself changes this name. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-03-0.u29451	Thank you. The word has a distinguished representative, Petar Mlinarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-03-0.u29452	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues, the honored Chakotay! I support the Proposal for a Law on the Croatian Memorial Documentation Archive of the Homeland War but not to forget. And what if he didn't forget? Not to forget all the horrors, all the suffering and all the destruction of the heroic city of Vukovar. Who can forget the terrible tortures, the terrible executions of our wounded from the Vukovar hospital, the suffering of innocent citizens in shelters? Who can forget the bloody brew of Chetnik hordes after the fall of Vukovar? Who can recover 3,000 innocent wolves? The youngest victim of a four-month-old child, the oldest female is a 96-year-old victim. Vukovar mothers still go out with open arms today and talk with tears in their eyes, "Where are our favorites? We're not looking for who killed them. Just tell me where they are to bury them with dignity and that we can lay flowers and light candles on their grave.". That's Mr. Caine's only truth and only true truth. This law establishes the Croatian Memorial documentation archive of the Homeland War in order to collect, arrange, protect, protect and investigate the truth about the Homeland War and to meet the public in the country and the world with established facts. I would refer to the reasons why the law is passed. Several different projects have been launched in the Republic of Croatia and worldwide, research on the Homeland War, published hundreds of professional books and articles on the same topic. Unfortunately, in both cases it has been observed that a significant number of these studies are based on unverified and professional and scientifically unprocessed documents. The task of this institution as well as the specialized archive is to establish a modern information system that will enable the availability of documentation. Both experts and scientists and citizens, or the general public. And what will contribute to the knowledge of the spread of the truth about the Homeland War and the permanent memory of all the participants and victims of war. Article 3 states: "The archive headquarters is in Zagreb." Although there was a speech that the headquarters would be in Vukovar. I support the proposal to be headquartered in Zagreb, but I propose on behalf of the city of Vukovar that in Vukovar, the symbol of Croatian suffering be the exhibition of the Croatian Memorial and documentary archive that will preserve and spread the truth and its living testimony as well as defenders of Vukovar who unfortunately are becoming less and more defiant and indestructible werewolf water tower on Mitnica every day.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-03-0.u29453	I thank you for the word given by the honourable representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-03-0.u29454	Mr. Vice-President, State Secretary, speaking today about the final draft law on the Croatian Memorial and Documentary Archives of the Homeland War should be stressed that today when he comes in the second reading... It's a good time, but it's really a break after the Homeland War of eight years, that it's pretty late but our people say it's better than never. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This Final proposal will indeed bring home war and records, all documentation and construction to be once-classified, classified, professionally processed, stored, published probably in school textbooks because there are several lines in the Homeland War today, only in some as if there were none. So far, the material and documents and the truth and credibility of the Homeland War have been collected countless times from newspaper articles, any second-rate sources that are most unworthy subjectively many times, I would ask you vice presidents to ensure peace in the assembly so that I can speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-03-0.u29455	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-03-0.u29456	Which, unbeliefably, subjectively many times unilaterally, arbitraryly, ultimately and unwittingly described the events of the Homeland War. The processes of more recent Croatian history have been distorted and spoken of as warring in someone else's territory, as if we were conquerors of someone else's land. That's how they presented it many times as if we were going on raids for someone else's. Therefore, the truth should be collected and I believe that all well - meaning comrades and friends as people who have helped achieve the goal of defending and liberating the homeland will certainly be and willingly surrender to the building. In addition to probably one good part of them wanting to keep it and have it for themselves, it is so in this Law and it is precise that all those who will surrender, and they want to keep a copy of it to sign an agreement with the archive and about the cost of the archives to copy the structure they own to keep the originals in the archives, and the copies are for the service of those who actually love it and want to have in their families, houses or their children to have the truth about the Homeland War. In most cases, this was due to the lack of collected processed material as well as professional analysis and the same which was missing and which was never applied on this material because it was neither collected in this way. It is therefore necessary to pass this law and to start working on this specialised public institution which will have the opportunity and the power to collect all material independently of legal or natural persons. And all document holders of this Law commit to handing it over to the archives and I hope they do. In addition to documentation on the Homeland War itself, this archive will also deal with data collection and materials related to humanitarian, cultural, artistic and other activities related to the Homeland War or activities launched by the Homeland War. We also believe that the administrative council appointed by the Government will, on a proposal. The appointment of the Croatian Parliament on the proposal of the Croatian Government will be the one that will try to get this archive started as soon as possible, to find the right space to be used in addition to these necessary accommodations in today's Croatian Archives, which will store all the buildings that will be collected. The professional supervision of the work of this archive is also carried out by the Croatian State Archives, and the report on the goals done and achieved under this Act would be held by the Croatian Parliament every two years or upon request as written, perhaps after six months and after a year could ask the Croatian Parliament to have insight into what was done, where did this specialized archive, how much did it collect, what kind of organisational units did it do? And someone was talking about we don't have a statute. Well, the law that is in the legal order first has to be passed, and then after the law is passed, the statutes are passed, and then the rules and everything else is necessary. But the sure sequence is like this. It is true that the Government of the Republic of Croatia had previously submitted the HSP in its first reading, and they agreed that it had been united and that such a common solution had taken place. There are certain disputes about the name itself but I believe that this name archive actually fits the real need for this institution and that through this name it will actually achieve its ultimate goal, which is the truth about the Homeland War in one place, the truth that will be written through publications, books, magazines, weeks or other, will be placed on the Croatian public and Croatian citizens as well as on the world’s public who has also written many times in some stories whether the story of the Homeland War and has never really explained the historical truth. And what is fundamental to the Homeland War is that it was defensive about liberators should actually emphasize it at any moment because today individuals want to give through personal debates or anything characterized by the Homeland War as if it was a war where essays were happening foreign things. RAT, which was actually because of exodus, genocide, and who knows what they don't list. So in their performances in this high House, as well as the individuals through the letters that we receive, there were many of them and warriors but each of them from their own corner is experiencing the Homeland War and the historical moments and the zbg of their criminal actions that they committed today are trying to give the world and the Hague the wrong picture of the Homeland War And today the letter I received is also talking about such things just to get away because of their criminal shopkeepers have done so to get the protection of money, and so on. They're trying and criminalizing the Homeland War and their worst commanders are showing criminals. And who writes it? If such a world public believes such writings and such testimony, it is sad. It's a sad reality we don't have until today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-03-0.u29457	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative Željko Kurtov.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-03-0.u29458	Dear Vice President, I must point out that there are various attempts to show war, subjectively from the corners of some individuals. From the perspective they saw him and experienced him. Such a relationship with events in the Homeland War only brings confusion and further cloudes the truth. However, Djakic, in a particular country war participant, does not necessarily wage this out of bad initiatives. They describe certain events of war as they have experienced them. As a rule, they were unable to see the whole situation, and objectively judge. So it's true. And what you said, packaging doesn't matter, is the content that we agree on. So it's not the name of this center that matters, it's what's going to be in it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-03-0.u29459	Thank you. The word has an esteemed representative, Katarina Fuček.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-03-0.u29460	Mr. Vice President, the esteemed and dear fellow MPs and MPs. I would like to join in my debate to support the proposal to establish such an institution of me which felt the need not only now but also much earlier. However, the government's priorities were always second, and there was never enough time and opportunity and therefore no matter where or no matter how much funds. She's very welcome. And it should be supported. And with age, it will function throughout its entire being and will certainly strengthen all necessary and contentable and technical elements for quality functioning. What makes it necessary is that this institute is primarily due to the need to strengthen the declaration of the Homeland War, to spread the truth about the Homeland War and to the quality interpretation of various events that took place in the Homeland War at the time of the creation of the state, in the time of the defence of the Croatian state. To avoid all the interpretations that have been present so far about these events. Here it was told who was everything and how he spread the truth about the Homeland War. One who had the opportunity to talk and who had the opportunity to talk about something but of course in his own way. Multiplication of such events must have also led to false conclusions. So we ourselves have witnessed how much of the local guilty I mean guilty, local subjective interpretations about certain situations, about certain events that we have participated in ourselves and where our contemporaries participated. For example. Let's take some of our cities, how much local interpretation of the defense of Slavonski Brod, the defense of Varazdin, Gospić, and all of this ultimately when the sum contributed to different interpretations and Croatian Domonian War. It is the responsibility of this country that as time moves away, the interpretation gets the right value. And to be as objective as possible, scientifically well-founded and exactly the kind of institution that will explore professionally and scientifically is the right thing to do is to spread the truth about one time in the right way. And to actually spread the truth about ourselves, about our national sovereignty. About the time we created it. And also about your identity. Because it's not only the responsibility of history, it's also the responsibility of morality. Because we need to enable young generations who are not participants and who will eventually occupy life and other topics to know where they will find quality scientific facts in which they will also be able to speak and with which they will be able to promote themselves and Croatia. That is how you present yourself in contact with which a direct connection will come. In addition to moral responsibility, except for the historical responsibility other than the need to spread the truth about the Homeland War, and the other thing is the technical need to collect citizens in one place to guard that building. Here's an example I was also talking about in the first reading of this law, which is that much of the video is stored in the archives of Croatian television. And that part of which was also entered into certain evidence of individual situations and which were specified materials in individual processes and other necessary things. However, this material is recorded on a VHS technique that certainly has a certain duration. After a number of years of footage becomes insecure and it is really necessary to save and be able to use it further to store on another medium. It must be a serious investment, but it should also be taken into account because they are permanent witnesses of a time, witnesses of people, witnesses of events, and surely they can contribute to these things that we have just talked about tomorrow. Among other things, the law also allows the establishment of branches, regardless of the branch centre, are necessary for reasons that, apart from scientific and professional and archival activities, the activity of publicising certain events in the publicist sense is also needed, which means dealing with activities that are not only scientifically founded, which is possible on the spot because our cities such as Vukovar, Gospić and those who are symbols of the Homeland War have and naturally what to show as their testimonies about it, such as the water tower. These are the meanings and need to preserve certain buildings that are living witnesses to death. We can talk about these experiences when we talk about the experiences of the world. We can talk. How is the truth about the holocaust expanded? Because that centre under UNESCO's protection has been visited by 21 million people so far. I think that as a battle of Waterloo and similar situations in the world are also known as examples of good publicity, good promotion of certain events. So, since its founding today, tomorrow will be a tighter institution, so it must extend its activity to this very part of opening up to the public, because it is the best way to spread the truth to the world and the best way to recognize what we want to say. It is therefore necessary that these branches today, tomorrow also co-operate in accordance with the activity prescribed here by law, expand their activities and directly engage in the promotion of what is here as a basic activity. In a concrete sense relating to the different part between the first and second readings is very good and I support the proposal to expand the activities that entered and collect the creative building that Mrs. Martincevic spoke of in the first reading and that is what must be the wealth of a people and I am really glad that it has come and will be taken care of, especially as it will be very well accepted by those who with their creativity participated in this, in these works of art, and they will certainly not have any particular problems to hand over the building archives. And for all other documentaries, it also meant the possibility of an agreed relationship, however, normally that this first part was not taken into account by any hidden possibilities, abuses, etc. The first step has been taken to collect maximum buildings, and any further abuses, failure, counterfeiting, there are certain possibilities of existing institutions that also have mechanisms and can be taken into account. I support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-03-0.u29461	Thank you. The word has a respected advocate Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-03-0.u29462	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. The first thing I have to say is, it's unfortunate that this bill has stalled for so long. The Croatian party of rights submitted its first proposal in 98th, failed, it submitted 2001. The 2nd proposal failed, she submitted a final proposal in March this year on the 3rd proposal, and then we were invited by the Ministry and the Government to make it right together, agree on a final proposal, and then the government reacted responsibly, and in the 7th month she made her proposal, then we discussed it at the 9th month, and then Vlada again responsibly reacted responsibly, despite the conclusion of this High House to commit to preparing the final proposal with the HSP Club. She didn't respect it. You wouldn't respect this now, either, if we hadn't protested when we adopted the State budget when we saw that nothing was secured in the proposal in the state budget. And then she's a minister and now the government claims she's secured $2 million and that's gonna be for about 10 employees. This is really one quite irresponsible behavior with such important things, because if this institution had existed and had worked, neither General Markach nor General Cermak nor Praljak would have been in this situation that they are in today. They wouldn't be in the situation they're in today. It would be a completely different situation, we would have everything complex, sorted, couldn't have happened to the counterfeits of some transcripts, and the situation would have been completely different. But it's interesting how the government reacts quickly when it is sought by the international community, so it immediately went with the final proposal for a law on restrictive measures to satisfy the world's Carly del Ponte to block General Gotovina's assets, his family. And then no one asks for the rights of Dunje Gotovine, little Ante and the others, if they've been denied constitutional rights. And as this is now done, there's no guarantee when it's going to work and how it's going to work, and do you know that these generals of ours, the heroes of the Homeland War, they have to buy on the black market the documentation that was supposed to be in the state archives that was supposed to be in this center, they have to buy it. And today, I can't get anything from state institutions that's in their favor, but they have to buy. And we suspect this is how it works and how it works. We're highly doubtful. We now pass when the law is published, then we have to appoint a director, a temporary one, and then the statutes do, and then 60 days of this, the space isn't secured. It'll be a year, we'll have it on paper, nothing will be done. Unresponsible behavior. Unresponsible treatment of Croatian defenders, according to our generals, our children, our grandchildren and great-grandkids. Very irresponsible behavior. Very irresponsible behavior. We don't have any guarantees if it's going to work, if it doesn't work. This way it won't work for sure. It'll take you a year if you want to do your job to collect it as God commands and as the rules command. Then it's only possible to cross the system's examination, build a collection and everything. Other countries don't work that way. Take an example of Israel. That's the way it works. That's how you take care of your history, your future. What is done now will not forgive us our children, our grandchildren, our great-grandkids. Don't do it right, go do the job you're paid for or don't be in the Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-03-0.u29463	Thank you. The word has a distinguished representative Ivan Bagarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-03-0.u29464	I thank you, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, since we have talked a lot about this topic, allow me to direct my exposure in particular, as well as welcome the students of the Economic and Trade School, and through them and all the students in Croatia and the teachers and the public. The establishment of the Archives will ensure the collection, processing, archiving, but more important publication and publication of the data. What was published in the media lasts a day. What was published in the textbooks lasts as long as the textbook. And what has been published in international scientific magazines lasts forever. So it's available to all archives and it lasts forever. I hope that the existing institutions of scientific institutions as the Institute of History will be found in the Archives and with the Archives of Joint Interest and that the publication and production of young scientists will be the basis on which they will work together and cooperate. I hope that many young people will find their own interests and do their doctoral themes precisely on this, on these materials and on this truth. I believe that the Archives will also take construction for the educational plans of educational institutions so that they will no longer be slow about them between us, which is a good thing that our children are learning, which is not. From the point of view of the witnesses and participants of the war in Bosnia and Herzegovina, I want the Archives to organise a scientific meeting, internationally on the theme "War in Bosnia and Herzegovina 91-96 and the role of Croatia in it". So it will show whether Croatia was an aggressor or played a key role in the survival of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Gentlemen, those who are malicious are more difficult to replace. Thesis is also replaced by those who are not in the mood to be friendly to us. Thesis is also replaced by ignorant ones. The task of this institution is to declare and defend what has happened, therefore, the truth. I'll go back to the beginning of my presentation, and that'll end it. I said that what was published in the media lasts, i.e., lives one day, but if the incomplete sensational writing and publication are permanent, I would say daily, then they shape people's attitudes, especially young people who were not participants at one time. The archive will show the absurdity of such work and respond to numerous sensationalisms and show the absurdity of them that have been published in the Croatian press for days. At this moment, the Croatian Army is being targeted as a group of violent, pervs, homosexuals. It's total untruth and deception. Don't believe in her. In the end, I'd just like to talk to Mr. Peri Kovacevic, who is not here right now. Not true, respected counterpart Kovacevic, so that our people would not be invited to the International Court of The Hague if they had such an institution. That's not true. We are a country that lives in the world and cooperates with the world with international institutions. True, the existence of such an institution would make the documents more available to people. Well, that's exactly why we're working to put it in order, and this government only exists for a year. And it's not exactly what he said about this government's irresponsibility against the team. Well, this is just proof like anything else that seems to be wrong. And the greatest proof that that is not the case is our favorite truth that generals, as well as one of my dear friends and colleagues, Cherke, are returning from The Hague today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-03-0.u29465	Correction of the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Ingrid Antičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-03-0.u29466	... What my colleague is saying is that recently just a day or two ago in the media, he's making an impression, whether, in the military, they're doing it, whether, by these inscriptions, what happened, or suspected of happening, only some perverts are doing it, as he said. [[Conversation subsequently turned on.]] All irregularities and no one can say that there are no irregularities in any service. They need to be pointed out, and pointing to the purity of one service is not a diphasmation of that service, especially when an army official says so. Then I think it deserves one serious concern from all of us.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-03-0.u29467	Thank you. Korenika, the distinguished representative of Miroslav Korenika.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-03-0.u29468	Thank you very much. I must say, dear fellow, that we must experience the Croatian army as the Croatian army that was at war when it was victorious, when it freed Croatia. However, we must also condemn all those phenomena that are possibly happening, which I hope will eventually be in court proceedings, because the fact that in every community, in every segment of action, work can be a distortion of facts, there may be unauthorised or socially unacceptable behaviour. Therefore, we may be having such an impression, but the indisputable fact is based on what was happening in Bjelovar, based on these stories which are clearly evidence that there was evidence of what was happening in Split, which was happening in Zadar, that there are wicked individuals who, unfortunately, defile today's army. The team is a worse situation if they participated as soldiers, as winners in the Croatian Army during the Homeland War. But you'll agree with me that we all have to condemn the phenomenon as a phenomenon because if we keep quiet about it, it means that we sort of agree with it.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-03-0.u29469	Thank you. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Bagarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-03-0.u29470	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, I'd like to answer to you, but also to a colleague who just... Okay, I'd like to answer you, dear colleague of the Koreans. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] As a member of the Croatian Army for several years, therefore, institutions now, which are now being dealt with in this way, I responsibly argue that this can be an individual phenomenon, an individual phenomenon which should also be sanctioned, but the country's system, but not the street, not the media. You understand? I have never met such a single phenomenon for several years of service in the Croatian Army. Therefore, what is now happening in the media is focused on the heads of young people, on showing the Croatian Army as a problem in Croatian society, which is what I am talking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-03-0.u29471	Thank you. The word has a distinguished representative Zdenka Babić-Petricevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-03-0.u29472	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. The Final Proposal for a Law on the Croatian Memorial Documentation Archive of the Homeland War is before us. I have to admit, I'm one of the ones where I hesitated about the name, whether it's the documentation center or the archives of the Homeland War. However, when I am sure, the center as a centre in my opinion would have one greater power and, but that does not mean that the archive will not work and work but at the beginning of what, here, today all MPs, no matter what side they come from, when we talk about the activities of the archives in Article 5. I think Article 5 justifies what I've been thinking about and what my dilemma was. If the performance of its activity is particularly done in all the items proposed before us, I will not quote them individually because we have repeated them several times today. But, gentlemen, human history is the history of wars, so is the Croatian people. The Croatian people have participated in wars throughout the centuries in defending their homeland, but what we can be proudest of, the Croatian people have always fought defensively never imperialistic wars. However, our armies will not now enter history from 925 to 1945, but I will really stress today what each individual is proud of today in the Croatian Parliament. And here are the students, our generations from the balcony and I hope and I am aware that they will read and be proud of the history of the Croatian people from 1990 to 1996. Because it's always said and there's one formula for winners to write history. And I am sure that the Croatian people, namely the victorious Croatian Army, will write down what is called the defence of the country, and already part of the achievement we enjoy today, it is called the sovereign independent or independent state of Croatia. But I could think about it all, but I couldn't think about it, imagine that something would happen in the Croatian people which I'm sure would never happen in any nation, after such a glorious victory in the Croatian Defence War, in the Homeland War. He was asked and became part of Croatia's most famous history. Our fight against major Serbian and Montenegrin aggression was justified, she was positive and she was just. We were obliged to fight for the establishment and defence of the Croatian state, which was done by respecting human rights and international war law. They wanted to revise both foreign and domestic counterfeiters of Croatian history. So here is today this law that will stop the revision of Croatian history. I will not mention what happened in this House of Commons, but I will only mention what has been going on here in the last few years when I am talking about the revision of Croatian history, so we have changed the holidays dates in the Croatian Parliament, so I will mention only one date, one holiday which, however much and in any way, it was marked in the Croatian people on 30 May 1990, is not a asked date. He is what is in the spirit of the Croatian man because he was and remained in the spirit of the Croatian man on 30 May. It has been shown over the past few years, although the date has been given on paper or in law to each other meaning. May 30th is the day of Croatian statehood in 1990, regardless of having another first date of Croatian history as a day of restoration of Croatian statehood. That, on May 30, they remember and know for sure who they are, our youth that was now on the balcony. So when we changed that, so the other day I was saying that it must have and play a role in Croatian media and Croatian television, so I will mention something that did not happen in the peaceful people, which happened in the Croatian people "Oltar domina", "Oltar domina" is not the HDZ on Medvedgrad, "Oltar domina" on Medvedgrad is also the wall of the historical wall of the Croatian people because the history of the Croatian people did not begin on January 3, 2000, not since 1990, it has not been since 23.11.2003, it has been richer and it has been enriched by many others who have had no luck to participate and experience what we have experienced by establishing a sovereign, independent state of Croatia. This law that is before us, I will now mention only a few articles. Article 5 includes what should include the centre, so be the archive, just let it work. Article 6 I have submitted an amendment on behalf of counterparts Krešimir Cosic, Ivan Bagaric and Florian Boras and myself. I will quote: "In carrying out its activity, the archive collects and records and data on humanitarian, cultural, artistic and other activities related to the Homeland War, as well as authentic documentation created by the initiative and work of individuals and groups and the role of Croatian emigrants in the Homeland War." This amendment has passed the procedure. I hope it will be acceptable, but we cannot even mention the historical facts today, the role of the Croatian people from Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Croatian national minorities in the Homeland War. My argument regarding the submitted amendment is just one sentence and it is a reality and it will enter the archives of the Croatian state and it will read: "In the association of the native and evicted Croatia, a protected Republic of Croatia was created." And finally, why we must all work on this archive and why Col. Ćosic wrote the amendment on Article 9, the archive submits once a year a report on the work and business of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I hope that this will happen to all Croatian Parliament, because from history it is never too great to speak to the Croatian people to respect and forget all those who have built themselves into the "Oltar Homeland" in the freedom of the Croatian state. And based on what the Croatian people of 1990 had bare hands, a great soul, a great heart with God's help from the Croatian people under the leadership of Dr Franjo Tudjman, we do not only enjoy that freedom but those above on the balcony of the gentlemen you will surely welcome now and because of them we write history now that they and their children would be reading it for 50 years as is common in all the peoples of this world, Europe and these planets. Let us do what is our responsibility, or duty, which are representatives of the Croatian Parliament, must work on something called "don't forget". ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-03-0.u29473	Of course I will welcome the students and teachers of Mark Marulić High School from Slatina who will be monitoring the work of this session a few moments ago. Please welcome them. ... The word has a distinguished representative Miljenko Doric. [[Applause.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-03-0.u29474	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I'm going to have a slightly different performance and a little less politically color what I'm going to say than others did. First of all, two words about science, scientific approach and the scientific truth that are constantly mentioned, here is 70% of the MPs used those words. As a scientist, I think I need to warn you something here. Scientific research does not result in scientific truth but in conclusions, recommendations, results, data. Someone else who explores this same area will come up with other data so data will be corrected, so it will go in another scientific direction certainly not to use the term "science truth" because it would turn out that we scientists are smarter and our truth is a better truth, more accurate truth than Mr. Kurt's truth, defender or anyone else. That doesn't stand. About the archive itself. This is certainly a very atypical archive or this is a very atypical scientific institution, because it is used in Article 2 to establish this archive as a public, scientific institution. Look, we need to be clean here with a few phases in the work of this archive. What are the objectives of the archive? First. Systemically collect all data in connection with the Homeland War. Secondly, systematically process those data. I would call this first phase possibly a scientific phase, because it will also apply scientific methods to the processing of these data. Then comes the second phase I'd call the archival phase. It is a permanent preservation of buildings and it is to make it accessible to citizens, institutions, institutions. And there's another fifth goal. It is to ensure a lasting memory of the time of destruction but also of the time of pride. It's a museum phase. I would therefore clearly warn the legislator of this law that he is really trying to escape wherever he can from the word "science" or to make it clear at which stages we will use these words, or those methods in scientific terms. Because the way, is the way this institution is financed, is it based on the Law on Scientific Activity? Not a word. Do we meet the human criteria for the establishment of a scientific institution? Not a word. Do we choose a director under the Law on Scientific Activities? Not a word. Did two culture and science ministers find each other and read this text together? I think I can say that I'm not speaking. That is why I propose that the Ministers meet and give very clear instructions to the Governing Council as far as the dynamics of the first establishment are concerned, and later the relatively fast reconstruction of this institution. It wouldn't be good, in fact, for this great idea to move on to its opposite. I am personally against the branch office not to make fun of these museums for 20 years, as some collections from the People's Liberation War are making fun of just because they are slightly abandoned in the idea and material support. This must not be allowed, our Homeland War is sacred and we must ensure that we do everything as clearly as we imagined it, not as it usually does later. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-03-0.u29475	Mr. Representative Nenad Stazic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-03-0.u29476	Thank you very much, President-in-Office of the Parliament, Your Honor, Secretary of State. Whenever there's talk of the Homeland War, then there's one key word, the truth. There were no MPs who spoke about this subject without using that syntagma. The truth about the Homeland War. The Word Truth also appears in the bill, and that is already in the first article. The archive is established among other things to explore the truth about the Homeland War and to get to know the public about the country and the world with established facts. What the Proposer says is not his task, so the task of the archives is not to determine the truth, but to research the truth, he is talking about the serious and thoughtful intention of the proposer to achieve the purpose for which it is established. For when it comes to the war of the Homeland, there is no doubt about it, there is only one truth unquestionably established, that he was righteous and that he was defensive. But many other truths still need to be explored. For example, we need to investigate the number of defenders in general. We don't have that fact. How many died? How many wounded are there? How many disabled, military, civilian? What is the fate of the dead and the missing? What is the fate of civilians on both sides? For example, we do not know the full truth about the defence of Vukovar, whether the exact suspicions of the defender, including some of the commanders of the Vukovar defense, were they not helped to a sufficient extent, to the extent that he could have been helped to defend himself? Is there really a stop to the breakthrough action that was meant to ensure the extraction of civilians from Vukovar just before the fall? All these are the truths that need to be explored. When it comes to Vukovar, then we can say that some of the truths have been carefully investigated, for example Ovcara, again, not because of the efforts in Croatia, but thanks to the efforts of the court in The Hague, when at Dokmanovic's trial an evidence procedure was carried out which was phenomenal and unsupervised, I followed it as a journalist. Thanks to the efforts of Forensics Snow who brought the entire team there and trained our forensics to do field research. We know a lot about Sheepdogs. But we still haven't explored all the tombs, mass and individual in the Republic of Croatia. We don't have the victims' identities. We're still searching for a large number of missing, we don't know their fate. All of these are some truths to be explored. Meeting some truths is painful. For example, is there a crime to be done in defense? So if it can be done, is it done? So if it's done, who did it? Why? In what circumstances? How many victims are there? What is their destiny? When one of these truths was to be faced, for example in Gospić, there were many who called it the destruction of the dignity of the Homeland War. They staged protests, tied themselves up in a chain. They called upon those who sought to establish this truth, the traitors, threatened them with death, the liquidation, and it was about determining one of the truth. They didn't understand then that the size of the Homeland War and its integrity couldn't break the truth, it couldn't break the truth or those events we call the dark sides or the dark spots, the dark spots of the Homeland War. They didn't want to understand, they didn't understand or they didn't want to understand for political reasons. Because that was their day-to-day political purpose. Not taking into account that it will cause great damage to both the country and the Homeland War. And those whom they used to intercede for. Some truths we don't know yet. We don't know yet the truth about Paola's court, or the Paki plain, or Laura, that in time and full confidence in ourselves, trust in the defensive righteous character of the Homeland War, if we had faced these truths in time, today they wouldn't be questioned by The Hague. Now in this archive, which is founded by this Law, constructions will come from The Hague, and some truths found there will have to enter the structure of this archive. The truth is only true and true, the best defense is the dignity of the Homeland War. If that height was ever threatened by anything. The archive is Mr. Secretary of State's excellent first step on that path to establishing the truth. Without that first step, there won't be another step and it can't be. And if that first step was perhaps too big, as the HSP Club demands, the question of whether we would win the goal. So this is how I see from this bill of law, there's no politicization in it, it's really designed as a scientific institution. And it should not be corrupted by any amendments like that proposed by counterpart Babic-Petericevic, because it is a political formulation that does not belong to this Law, which is a founding act for one of these archives. I fully support Mr. Secretary of State for this bill. I want you to know that, I want to say it in public. But I won't vote, just for the truth I've talked about so much. Because the truth is, in this House, there's no quorum, and I'm not standing still and I'm never going to rest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-03-0.u29477	Honourable representative Frano Matušić has injured his Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-03-0.u29478	Thank you, Mr. President. Here it is called for a breach of the Rules of Procedure in its Article 14 because it is clear that it calls for the failure of the duties of MPs and I think it is the responsibility of the MPs themselves in the Rules of Procedure. It is therefore necessary to fulfil the duties and, among them, the duty to respect or choose, the vote in this House.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-03-0.u29479	Representative Matušić, it's not about any damage to the Rules of Procedure, but it's about you hurting the Rules of Procedure. That's what I'm asking you to keep in mind. Correction of incorrect allegations respected representative Ivana Sučec-Tracostanec.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-03-0.u29480	Thank you. The expression of both warring parties is totally incorrect because it could be interpreted that Croatia has declared war on someone or that it has been with a country exclusively in work. So, within its borders, Croatia was only attacked, not only attacked, but only defended and attacked, not on one side, but on several sides. At the invitation of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Split Agreement also helped defend Bosnia and Herzegovina. Therefore, both the warring parties are quite incorrect... One side was attacked and one side was defended. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-03-0.u29481	Dear Representative Ivan Bagarić corrects the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-03-0.u29482	Thank you, Mr. President. He would correct the quote by Mr. Stazic, who said that the amendment is Zdenka Babic-Petricevic, whom I personally sign will corrupt this material. So it won't spoil it because it will only complete it and it will complete it by adding only one part of the sentence "that role of Croats outside the country". The only thing that'll spoil it, Mr. Stazic if you think of Croats outside the country what you've been thinking for the last 40 years, 50.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-03-0.u29483	Next correction by the respected representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-03-0.u29484	Thank you, Mr. President. It is incorrect to falsify the quorum in this House and thus work in this House. It's true that in this House, he's running away with his head no matter when he has to vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-03-0.u29485	Dear Representative Krunoslav Markovnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-03-0.u29486	Mr. President, counterpart Stazic said there is no quorum in the parliament. The truth is that 50 MPs haven't been coming to work since the beginning of the last year. So it's from SDP, HSS, HNS, LIBRE, LS, and then we're being accused of quorum.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-03-0.u29487	What is that correcting of an incorrect assumption against this?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-03-0.u29488	It is.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-03-0.u29489	It's not a correction to an incorrect quote, it's a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Do not correct false allegations and speak of something else under a firm of incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-03-0.u29490	A colleague said there was no quorum in the Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-03-0.u29491	Not now, not in this exhibit. You have direct exposure to the corrections of an incorrect quote. Please. The club of HSP representatives respected representative Pejo Trčević for five minutes discussion. And before that, the replica. Excuse me. Prior to that, the replicated representative Frano Piploic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-03-0.u29492	Well, fellow Stazic said a lot of those things that I would agree with, some things I would agree with. I would like first of all to agree that the truth needs us and must free us, and it is the only guarantee of one of our strong social ties, a quality relationship to the historical cultural heritage that we are talking about here today in the Homeland War. However, his colleague spoke of the truth of the matter. There's another truth that my colleague didn't talk about, and that's the truth of indemnity, the truth of failure, the failure to defend his country. I think it's for sure that this Memorial documentation centre of ours needs to establish such truths so as not to be suddenly politicized. In our Christian Catholics, there is a prayer where thought, word, deed, and failure are spoken. There's a lot of gaps, so it'd be convenient for you to miss out on a scientific basis so there'd be fewer disputes between us when these issues are on the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-03-0.u29493	Thank you very much. Let's move on. On behalf of the HSP Club, five minutes final Mr. Pejo Trčević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-03-0.u29494	Thank you, Mr. President. Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! The Croatian Memorial Documentation Centre would have the task of systematically working on the roots of major Serbian aggression, on its fascist causes and genocide objectives, and on determining the responsibilities of key factors in this, and therefore, gentlemen, the archive will not be addressed. We all agree that the Croatian Memorial Documentation Centre, its regional units, would be involved in analysing information to initiate the persecution of all genocide perpetrators who thus worked against the Croatian people and the Croatian state, and relevant information would be collected by the Croatian Memorial centre from the surviving victims of Serbian crimes and from the available sources in the country and the world. That too, gentlemen, wouldn't deal with the archives. In this regard, we point out that the Croatian Memorial centre is not a monument or a monumental complex, but an institution whose basic tasks are to effectively preserve the memory of all Croatian victims of the Homeland War, so civil and military, and persistent expansion of the victims of the Croatian people and the great destruction of our country during the Homeland War, as well as the scientific breakdown of the causes, roots, flows and goals and major Serbian aggression in Croatia. That's not what gentlemen wouldn't do. Only the headquarters of the Croatian Memorial Centre and its headquarters can be complemented by monumental complexes that remind the committed genocide of Croats during the Homeland War, or culture and ecocid of Croatian heritage. We have already collected amarkords, films and film records about the horrors of war in Croatia. It won't certainly show us the archives. The task of the Croatian Memorial Documentation Centre is information, the issue of natural and special bulletins for the purpose of informing the domestic and international public as fully as possible about everything that has happened in Croatia in the Homeland War. He wouldn't be in the archives either. The name of the centre is a live and active institution with the aim of information, reporting and studio and scientific processing of documents, and not as some here say only scientists and historians would serve the archive. If that's the goal, then certainly the archive is an appropriate name. Since it is imagined that the headquarters is originally in the state archives, it is not difficult to conclude that it will be one section of the state archive and in a short time it will become a structure that will serve only the interested and there will be no education and information of younger generations to come. So the intensity is called archives on oblivion and putting closer to Croatian history under key. So, the proposal of the Croatian Party Club is the right to have the law read by the Croatian Memorial Documentary Centre of the Homeland War. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-03-0.u29495	Thank you very much. On behalf of the SDP Club, Mr. Representative Antun Vujic. Here you go. Five minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-03-0.u29496	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Secretary of State, we've come up with some resumes, so I'd like to repeat what kind of strategy is possible. First, we have a law that is a good law on the Croatian archive of the Homeland War. This does not consume all needs related to the original intensities concerning the possible documentation, the Museum Documentation Centre. But it elaborates the previous conditions for us to come into a phase to fully design such an institution. I warn that there are certain amendments that would bring confusion if they were accepted inside, especially when proposing where regional archives should be established. The regional archives of this kind of archive should be the same for now where the headquarters of the state archive is so that, just through the regional archives, appropriate structures can be collected in the already developed technology and methodology of work which would then make it a unique structure. In that sense, I think that, within this range and on the basis of this bill's proposal, we can calm souls and, with the support of adopting this bill, not considering that we have ended all that is necessary, and very often in many other countries it takes years and does not follow very often directly the events themselves, and that is, and these are the monuments, then the memorial areas, these are then museum-documentation centres, so these are all those institutions and institutions, which are assumed by one such arrangement of this matter through the scope of the law as it is now. We would certainly be happy to vote if the vote made sense, but we support the adoption of this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-03-0.u29497	Thank you very much. Is that what we're talking about? Is that what a proposaler wants? Here you go. State Secretary, Mr. Jadran Antolovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-03-0.u29498	Let me thank you for the debate as well as for the amendments we are going to consider to improve the submission of the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-03-0.u29499	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. They'll decide when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-03-0.u29500	Final proposal of the Law on the Croatian Memorial Documentation Archive of the Homeland War, second reading, P.Z. No. 132. The debate on the text of the law is over. The amendments were submitted by representatives and representatives' clubs. State Secretary Jadran Antolovic. We have a table of amendments, the first amendment of the club of representatives of the HSP.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-03-0.u29501	Amendment accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-03-0.u29502	Thank you. 2. The MPs' club also HSP.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-03-0.u29503	The amendment shall be adopted, with reference to the need for the amendment to be made in Article 3(1) as well.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-03-0.u29504	Thank you. The amendment accepted with that supplement. Amendment 3, Agent Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-03-0.u29505	The amendment is not accepted, as it is pointed out that the logistics of the headquarters should be in Zagreb.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-03-0.u29506	Representative Damir Caine is not in the assembly. We should vote. Who's up for that amendment? No one. 4th Representative Frana Piplovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-03-0.u29507	The amendment is not accepted as part 1 of the amendment has already been incorporated in paragraph 1, and the second part of the amendment relating to the use of modern telecommunications and information systems has also already been incorporated in the existing Article 5(2).
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-03-0.u29508	I'm pulling.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-03-0.u29509	Amendment 4 withdrawn. Amendment of 5 MPs Zdenka Babić-Petricevic and representative Krešimir Cosic, Ivan Bagarić and Florijan Boras.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-03-0.u29510	The amendment is accepted with one change of text. Thus, not with the text, and in the role of Croatian emigration in the Homeland War, but with the text, and in the role of Croats outside the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-03-0.u29511	He accepts.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-03-0.u29512	Okay. Amended text of amendments accepted. 6th Representative Kresimir Cosic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-03-0.u29513	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-03-0.u29514	It becomes an integral part of the Law. The seventh, representative of Frana Piplovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-03-0.u29515	The amendment is not accepted in view of the fact that it is not possible in advance to establish branches for reasons why we want this centre to function rationally and that branches can be established by the statute and that, in accordance with the rational functioning, the existing system of state archives can also be used.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-03-0.u29516	I'm pulling.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-03-0.u29517	Amendment withdrawn. Eight MPs, too, Frane Piplovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-03-0.u29518	The amendment cannot be accepted since units of local administrations and self-government cannot be obliged to finance an institution that is the founder of the Government of the Republic of Croatia or the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-03-0.u29519	I'm pulling.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-03-0.u29520	Amendment withdrawn. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please come in. Please vote. Score. I find that 76 votes for and 3 abstentions have been passed the Law on the Croatian Memorial Documentation Centre in the text as proposed by the Government together with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-03-0.u29521	We move to point 32: - Final draft law amending and supplementing the State Audit Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. Number 220. The proposed law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the Rules of Procedure, an emergency procedure unites the first and second readings of the law. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. This Regulation shall enter Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on European Integration, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, the Committee on Local Self-Government and, the local regional self-government. You received the report at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. State Secretary, Ms. Martina Dalic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-03-0.u29522	Thank you very much. The basic features, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, allow me to explain the basic features of the Amendment and the addition of the final draft law on state audit. This more clearly determines the competence of the State Audit Office or the entities it audits. This means that it is competent and audited by European funds and other international institutions. This has been done in view of the need to bring Croatia's legislation into line with the European Union and the process of joining the Eurospec Union. The provisions of the law also include an audit of income and income, given that the office is responsible for carrying out audits and revenues and receipts and expenditures and expenditures. So far, only the audit of expenditure has been prescribed. The proposed amendments may include any profession, not just a graduate economist or a lawyer. The purpose of this is to increase the efficiency of the audit in order to make auditors different titles. It is also proposed to adopt an annual plan and work programme. It is proposed to adopt an annual report, proposed to submit, forgive me, the annual report of the State Audit Office to the Croatian Assembly by the end of the current year for the previous year. Because the deadline for submitting financial reports according to the current regulation is different and uneven. Other amendments include terminology harmonisation and are therefore proposed to produce a consolidated text of the Law on State Audit. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-03-0.u29523	Thank you very much. Does the workbody reporter want a word? No, I don't. [[Intruder: No.]] I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the SDP Club, Madam Representative Dragica Zgrebec, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-03-0.u29524	Mr. Vice President, Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. On behalf of the SDP Club, I will use the opportunity to speak several sentences on the 10-year work of the State Audit Act during this, these amendments and additions to the Law on State Audit. So there are so many years behind us that we have established this institution that should revise and oversee the implementation of the budget at all levels. During that period, we can also monitor progress in the institution itself and in the executions, improve the way in which the budget is implemented at all levels. We estimate that this is one of the state institutions that has not succumbed to political pressures or problems throughout this period of ten years, but has done its job in a professional and objective way. From that original function when expenditures were only audited, the institution actually controlled the documentation with its progress, the education of the people working in it came to a stage when the economics of spending were assessed, but throughout this period it has performed a single educational and advisory function and, I say, it has been possible to monitor progress in the implementation of both the state budget and the transport units of local and regional self-government. It should be said here that she has also done a great job of reviewing, converting and privatising, which is not normally done by these institutions in other countries, and I hope that by the end of the year we will finish this job and get a final report on the revision of conversion and privatisation. And now just a few words about the proposal itself to amend and supplement the law. We, we will support these changes because they mean further harmonisation of the law, or the principles on which the state audit works, according to the principles of the European Union. Here we are in concrete compliance with four principles as we were told. It is now also about the revision of state revenues as well as the funds of the European Union and other international organisations and institutions to finance public needs. It is certainly necessary to do so, given that we are here before entering full membership of the European Union. We also assess that it is good that the principle that powers or conditions for an authorised State auditor are extended until the end is harmonised. Now it was only the terms of economic and legal profession. Here they expand to information and other relevant professions. This is really necessary if we want to fully carry out our function as a state audit and, in Article 8, where we are talking about how the report is being submitted, where the full compliance with the SIGBE recommendations is also being carried out. However, we would suggest here that soon the law on state audit continues to be harmonised. It remains either inconsistencies or in part in the part relating to the principle of financial independence, and we propose that this principle be harmonised as soon as possible because the current law does not contain relevant provisions on the independent management of the budget of the state audit in its Article 13. And independent external surveillance. It should be said that the auditor is otherwise not on the free market especially for those who could carry out a state audit and that that education is actually carried out within the state audit itself, and that these salaries are certainly not so stimulating that they would not cross over to some other institutions and there are primarily banks that are far ahead of their salaries. So, in this way, we would also contribute to the further quality of the work of this institution, so on behalf of the Club, we propose that, in the next phase, this principle be fully harmonised. If we accept such a law on amendments and additions to the State Audit Act. And from the known archaeologists, we will not be present at the very act of voting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-03-0.u29525	Thank you very much. Ms. Representatives, as referred to in Article 14. You are required to take part in the vote by the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. Injury of the Rules of Procedure Mr. Representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-03-0.u29526	According to Article 225 of our Rules of Procedure, a majority of MPs are required to attend the meeting of the Assembly. Except in cases where the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia or of this Rules of Procedure is different. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-03-0.u29527	What injured the Rules of Procedure for applying to Article 14. You didn't answer correctly for the violation of the Rules of Procedure, because the Rules of Procedure were not injured. And in the repeated case, you'll get a warning and everything else that follows. Here you go. Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-03-0.u29528	In accordance with Article 32 of the President-in-Office of the Parliament, among other things, your notice was not complete. Quote each time and article 225 to give a complete notice.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-03-0.u29529	I gave as much notice as I thought necessary. I didn't hurt the Rules of Procedure and I'm giving you a heads-up on the abuse of raising a license plate on the breach of the Rules of Procedure because you've raised it unnecessarily second time. With the intention of disrupting the work of this Parliament. Mr. Representative Emil Tomljanovic for the violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-03-0.u29530	That is exactly how Mr Vice-President, because an esteemed colleague systematically violates the Rules of Procedure and that provision of Article 214 paragraph 1 of the third indent says - a warning shall be given to the agent if he or she interferes with the speaker or otherwise, if he or she reports a breach of the Rules of Procedure or a correction of a non-requirement starts to talk about another subject he or she has not received. Since this is often and constantly happening, there is one initiative that is not directly or strictly defined by the Rules of Procedure or by a really small constitution, which is the abuse of the right and from the Rules of Procedure to be misused in a way that is harshly and in a rough way in violation of the provisions of Rules of Procedure Evo, it has been my intervention because Article 214 has been injured and, in any case, you deserve a notice by the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-03-0.u29531	Thank you very much. I think we and the public are completely seeing what we want with this. So I'll shorten my warning to Article 14 if there are, because I've repeated them countless times. I hope it stays that way, or someone won't understand, or maybe a little harder and understands. on behalf of the HD Club For Mr. Representative of the Arthrial Shima. Here you go. Don't throw it out of the bench 'cause that's why you have no right. I said either they don't want to or they don't understand. /Speakers speak out loud/
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-03-0.u29532	They're hard to understand, they're stupid, and you told us we were stupid.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-03-0.u29533	I would like to remind you once again, of the polite behavior in this assembly, Mr. Nenadu Stazic, who you have exceeded every measure of it, I have not given you my word and sit where you sit.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-03-0.u29534	I'm sitting down, but I don't get offended.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-03-0.u29535	Here you go, Mr. Squirt.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-03-0.u29536	Thank you very much, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. And I will try very briefly, of course, the HDZ Club supports and will vote for this amendment to the audit law. Very briefly comment, not content, because I hope everyone knows it. It is the goals that we want to achieve with this, but some doubts that arise with this change, or possible case of alterations that go along with it. First, on the content of course, the Law on State Audit of Amendments and other acts has established the activity, i.e. the part-circuit, the content, the organisation, the structure, the rest and, of course, that it is not touched today and should not be particularly highlighted. However, it should be pointed out that it is likely that the burden that the revision has additionally had on the revision of conversion and privatisation through the completion of the job, that the wider and the scales will be able to devote themselves to these targeted jobs. And of course better quality them and perform them. I think you'd be doing new content, but also doing other tasks. I think I hear it here, but I don't know what kind of eyes it is. In order to improve the quality and better and up-to-date performance of the audit tasks so that structural staff can be better organised, so that employment and other staff are proposed except for those who have been so far. The task can also be set, and perhaps one day a new law on revision or a more serious addition, a more up-to-date and perhaps more extensive education permannetically prescribed education. Because similarly, it's my thinking, and I think it would be good if it was precisely in order to execute such newly structured personnel that they needed to be educated more often because they never had enough resources for civil servants. This is an extremely important state service. DRugo, I would like to point out that this change is also going towards harmonisation with certain European or international legislation, and that this harmonisation is aimed at some new jobs that we will see now for a short period of time in this amendment. In particular, independence is apostrophe and I particularly point out that a high degree of independence of state audit is needed. I will shortly comment on why such a high degree of smutality is needed, either without a particular influence of politics or not, God gives politics. For the objectives and tasks to be carried out, ail also doubted some of the new contents this amendment offers and especially related to the CNB. In this respect, in this respect, we certainly support and maintain that the degree of independence has been expressed in the work as well as in the adoption of the work programme that they adopt annually, autonomously determining the programme of work that the audit determines. When harmonising with international legislation, I will not cite the institutions of the organisation and the rest are prescribed, so I want to shorten this debate. But to warn of those basic provisions. It is warned that especially now they need to revise the funds coming from the European Union, and other funds in Croatia and translated into public spending. In all sectors that are once again prescribed by law on state-based audits, through funds through institutions and to the end to local administrations of self-government. So this is a new task that this amendment should make possible. And we hope that it will achieve a more serious goal. Now, with this amendment to the law, it is also in line with the law on the CNB passed two years ago. Now all I'm asking is a question and I'm not giving an answer to either one, but a question that is likely to need to be solved in future or once or another law. After this. This is where the provision is deleted, the current provision of an article on the revision which says that the audit has been audited by the CNB. However, since the fundamental law in the business of the CNB is the CNB Act and it has been found that the audit cannot, cannot be carried out by State audit, but by foreign audit houses, then this alignment is logical to that law. However, if we want to, on the one hand, say that we want and really want a high degree of autonomy and business activity, but also the adoption of the programme and at all the work of the state audit, the improvement of its qualification structure and its permanent education which is really necessary for the control and tasks it has, then the opinion itself that, until it is explicitly prohibited by some other regulations, it may be necessary to consider future solutions that such well-organised national domestic audit can also carry out a possible revision of the business of the CNB. At least in one segment. Because, I say, it is now prescribed by this law that foreign audit houses do so. Next, what is now proposed, and I can also question whether this is the best solution, it is said that the audit house at the CNB's audit proposes the CNB, and is decided by the Finance Committee. Indeed, here is now asking the impartial question and doubt, I am currently chairman of the Committee on Finest and So, I can fully independent, neutrally comment that this provision may not be the happiest, because the Committee on Finance is somehow the political body of this House or of those Services, or whatever parties, when and how it will change and it has the power to execute elections, so it puts me in certain dilemmas, conducts the selection of an auditory house to control the CNB. No matter what I'm in office, or president of the Committee, I'm talking to you right now as it is in the council. That's why it seems a little illogical to me, but it's currently being proposed and we're going to support this change. So here, in order not to simply return now, it requires urgency to apply from 1.1, that is one reason, perhaps in some reasonable time, but it can also be considered later on the adoption of a new law on revision, or other laws, which are planned. And in the end, it might end up pointing out that this alignment with international regulations is already creating and enabling, and it may well be a prerequisite for doing these pre-accession funds, but I would not say that it is necessary, that it is necessary and that it is already creating the possibility that this business control, let's say, is a condition, that it can be done from 1.1 next year. And finally, the question of the Parliament's reporting is asked, let's say again in doubt, here it is prescribed that the Parliament is reported annually, and according to its findings, the Parliament can be reported, which means if the audit, I would comment, if the revision in its work and the revision of the business of any of the entities listed and any other possible irregularities could report it. Now, this does not mean, then explicitly, that it must be once a year, it may be possible to do so throughout the year, but, of course, again with the aim of the Parliament having full information on the use of the funds listed within it, these funds coming from the international community within Croatia by the structure that is internally established. So these are light doubts is whether we support the degree of autonomy of the review in full, its business, its work, and this way we support this amendment so that we can meet this international regulation, international standard and the harmonisation that is there, especially in the structure of staff and its education. So, a better organization and its more efficient action in future time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-03-0.u29537	Thank you very much. Does the Prime Minister want a representative? No, I don't. Thank you. I'm closing the debate. They'll decide when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-03-0.u29538	We are going to the Final Proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Audit, P.Z. No. 220. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please come in. We can vote. Score. I find that, unanimously with 77 votes, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the State Audit Act has been adopted in the text as proposed by the Government.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-03-0.u29539	We're moving on to point 33. - Final draft deposit insurance law, 2nd reading P.Z. No. 184 The Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. In the case of the adoption of this law, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the Law shall apply, Articles 155 to 157 of the Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on European Integration, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Madam Secretary of State Martina Dalic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-03-0.u29540	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, let me point out the differences that exist in the Final Bill's proposal in relation to what existed in the first reading. In relation to first reading, the most significant change in the text of this Bill refers to explicit and unambiguous determination that deposits in savings-credit cooperatives are not in the deposit insurance system. Therefore, paragraph 4 of Article 1 is deleted from the first reading and is explicitly referred to in Article 3(7). Final proposal. Other amendments to the final proposal relate to improving text and nomotechnical changes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-03-0.u29541	Thank you very much. Do the work-body reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Mr. Representative of the Arthrial Shima. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-03-0.u29542	Thank you very much. And I'm just going to point out some of the doubts that are being raised these days, and otherwise they're asking about this amendment to the Deposit Insurance Act. Of course, it is not necessary to present everything, what we said at the first reading, and therefore only a basic note that this amendment guarantees savings of up to 100,000 kuna, and as these 100,000 kunas are below, we say somewhere in the provisions to comply with European legislation, and the European legislation says that this is EUR 20,000. Now, 20,000 Euros could be around 140,000 kuna. Now, the question arises, and why is it not that level, if we are in line with European regulations. At this point, however, and this task force that has prepared and, in general, our view is that this is the level where most citizens would be protected. And those other, larger amounts, the rest, stay out in a different way regulated. Therefore, most citizens would do so, and the main goal is to protect the citizens. So this change protects most citizens, and perhaps one day this height will probably change. Maybe there's a way technically not to prescribe an absolute amount, but... but there's no formula to prescribe in the relaturing so that the automation is aligned. [[You don't understand.]] That is why this remains to point out that the bankers are also satisfied that this is the height, because they are also paying for the insurance of these stakes, so they are still at the end, because it is those banks that could possibly come into such a situation for their worse business to be blocked and that it cannot then be paid off on a regular basis. What is also worth pointing out here, is that this is also true for several banks' savings, which was not before, and which makes the situation easier again for those small savings, which are the largest number so they can have in different banks their savings, and there is now a question of how different banks regulate, and here is interest prescribed which was because the corresponding savings and interest up to 100,000 kuna. Now, the question arises what if I made a deal or someone agreed as a citizen with one of the banks a higher rate of interest? That's exactly the risk group of banks that then encourages savings to attract such an increased interest eventually saves. And there's a risk that this group actually recruits those who come into this situation. And that's why we're offering this solution here for now. We think it can satisfy most citizens, but what can be pointed out is that savings and credits don't come in and that newspaper that is that there is savings, jury and current accounts and belongings, of course, interest to that amount in most banks, which is good, is said not to be provided in there because there is no need to particularly isolate it. But maybe it's just as a note that the Agency, the State Agency has the right to control banks, but only those deposits, right out of the situation so they don't eventually come into a vulnerable group and the way to pay off if they come into that group and the rest is regulated. This time, however, is the Croatian Banks Association, and I have essentially reported myself in this debate, the Croatian Banks' Association once again added an amendment to the amount of costs, fees, as we want banks to pay to the Croatian Agency by secure stakes in order to make it possible to pay off those savings deposits that come into critical payment. Bankers instead of now proposed, projected 0.125, they suggest that it be 0.025%. I say once again that we cannot support such a proposal because bankers say, if that would be up to a rate of 2.5% of the total mass, there is enough mass because it is estimated how many banks there are, how many roles there are, and enough funds from which such risk roles could be served. Now, we think it would be good, that would be ideal at a given moment, but we should have two facts in mind. One fact that at this point in the Agency, the fund cannot, namely, guarantee the state, so that the citizens would not be afraid of the state guaranteeing absolutely so much savings and it will at any moment be worth it. But just the state of the account and the rest doesn't allow it like this, I'll say freely, fluctuating possibly up to 2.5, so you'll, I mean the bank or someone else, pay a smaller differentiated rate, depending on which one, right? Rather than remain at this relative amount of 0.125%, and their complaint can be once again raised by me in the interests of the citizens and the savings of the Croatian state. Okay, if we want European terms, not 20,000 euros, but 100,000 euros, and we didn't go to European and not here 0.025, 0.125 slightly higher cost. And then what I'm asking is, I'm saying the question, the opposite questions, and then what's with the bank's view that those interest on savings and on other forms, have significantly different disadvantages in the Croatian state than they have in their central banks from which our countries are. Therefore, if we want European conditions, then let us give little European conditions in the Croatian state, or to Croatian savings as well. The fact that, and that's what we've encouraged on the board of the association to think about or we're going to initiate that very high costs, other than the cost of keeping an account on the banks and everything else that follows them. And so, in the end, the absurd fact that if, unfortunately, over half of the attempts by small entrepreneurs go bankrupt and when a jury or current or some account is to be closed, then he is charged interest on the balance or on the balance sheet. And in the end when you have to close the account then you still have to pay 100 kuna tariff to close the account. I don't think they're European norms, so I have a response to the bankers that we believe that on behalf of the protection of Croatian citizens, this optimal solution is being saved at the moment and we support that such change continues until conditions are changed. But then the overall European conditions that will apply in this sector. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-03-0.u29543	Thank you very much. On behalf of the SDP Club, Mr. Representative Mato Church. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-03-0.u29544	Mr. Vice President, Madam Secretary of State. Here, in the end, we still have a law that we can say well protects first and foremost those citizens who put their deposits in financial institutions. Or, let's be more specific, to certain financial institutions. Our first reading debate was highlighted in achieving adequate and appropriate protection for all those, therefore, primarily savings that save in banks. That's what it looks like now. In fact, this Law achieves a certain balance between what is a European norm and harmonisation and what is a Croatian reality. And in this Croatian reality, we need a law in which we will definitely protect the savings in banks with the power of the state. I believe the situation will never happen again in '98 and '99 or some years from now. But it should be kept in mind. And this law really needs to be envisaged and ensured that those who put their money in the banks do nothing, regardless of what was in the financial system of the state. And we got, therefore, not so long ago a crisis of banks that broke certain important banks, and from there were threatened roles and savings of life, created for years of the work of many citizens. We got that, among other things, and because the banks put different pressures and political pressures on us. And the one who meant private interests to obtain individual benefits through bank placements in privatisation processes, and ultimately to break it between the banks and the state that had to settle it. I will remind you, in the beginning of 2000, 2 and a half billion liabilities to the savings that had their deposits, their deposits in banks that were broken or unable to carry out those obligations were to be settled. We were then, and that was the first move from the Ministry of Finance in 2000, we tasked the state to restore those obligations to the citizens. And then, of course, it was put under our noses, like you owe the state an extra two and a half billion. They'd do it again. The state must protect citizens, especially when it has contributed itself to the results of their work in some institutions guaranteed by the State itself. We were also in a situation at the time that helped to put banks at risk and savings deposits in the state budget explosion situation in particular in the 98th year, after the introduction of VAT, so that this budget could now be very difficult to prevent and reduce, while at the same time there was significant indifference. This indifference has just introduced banks, banks, into a situation in which they were unable to fulfil liabilities even according to savings. I don't think that's ever gonna happen again. However, we must be aware of the fact that things are changing and that anything is possible. The analysis of the money market and the capital markets shows that the liquidity in this year is measured by the length of payments between economic and other entities, worsened by 50 to 100% because so many extended payment deadlines. Therefore, caution is never enough, and especially never enough security that the state must provide to those who have been investing in banks for years in the results of their work and their earnings. It should also be pointed out here that this Law is bound to reform the financial system as a whole in Croatia, in which a new Act on the Croatian National Bank has been adopted in the last three years, according to the European Union's standards. We also have a new Banks Act, a new Foreign Exchange Act, a new Payment Law that has been transferred to banks, a merger of supervision of all financial institutions, which has been concluded and taken final measures in the 6th month of 2003. The more along with this Law, the better it agrees with a situation where the financial system becomes more quality. I agree with what's been said here about savings-credit cooperatives and all other issues. And just to say, in the end, there is, of course, a certain dissatisfaction, there is a dissatisfaction of banks, etc. However, the fact is and should be acknowledged that, for example, those two and a half billion in debt owed by the state to return savings to deposits, they return from the premiums that are now being paid to savings deposits. Therefore, it is all in one strong relationship and I think that even the banks that have provided the greatest resistance here or the great resistance should be satisfied with this proposal because this is certainly a step forward and relative to European norms and standards, and also with regard to what everyone in this country needs in this area with a particular still firm protection of those who are most important there, which is therefore those who are saving or depositors. So I, professionally, Mr. Vice President, and in every other way, support this law. However, I must inform you that I will be prevented from voting on it.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-03-0.u29545	Thank you very much. We regret your impediment, Mr. Representative. ... No one can force anyone to do anything, but I can warn you of Article 14. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] A Rules of Procedure which says that you are obliged to vote and have rights and responsibilities and that both terms, therefore both rights and duties must be understood in the so-called dialectic unity. It means both, right, and not just one to have rights and not to have responsibilities. Thank you very much. Now individual debate Mr. Representative Joseph Leco. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-03-0.u29546	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, gentlemen of the government, colleagues and colleagues. So I'm not going to discuss it as an expert in banking, but I'm going to try to present what the citizens tell me about the matter of the Deposit Insurance Act. Of course, citizens want this law for a number of reasons, and simply because of Croatian experience, they want this law. An ordinary citizen knows that the state, i.e. the Croatian National Bank, is responsible for the stability of the banking system. And every citizen of the savings knows that the safer the bank is and recognizes that bank simply because then the interest is lower. In view of the proposed rate of 0.125, it can be concluded that the Croatian banking system is not yet so sure, which is why it is such a rate. Or certain banks are not certain that the state is in this law to verify in a certain way. But there is something that should be said in such an examination that the state, and we have repeated this several times in this Chamber or we should be good at economic measures, let's say that the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development is transformed into an investment and export bank. This is a very important lever of the state in promoting exports and promoting development. Since the Croatian banks are owned by foreigners and it is known that the profits of banks in the past year and past years have been extremely high, their responsibility for the development of the Croatian economy has not corresponded to the amount of profits they had. In my court, it is therefore very important, once again, to pass this law, and in that sense I support it. But more importantly, economic policy measures would ensure promotion of exports, promotion of development and through HABOR. It may not have a direct connection, but it certainly has to do with the banking system as a whole. Of course, the Deposit Insurance Act should be supported, it should be passed, but this will not solve the problem of certain banks in Croatia and interest rates that burden both the economy and the citizens when it comes to saving and spending on current accounts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-03-0.u29547	Thank you very much. Does the lady want it? Yeah. Here you go. Secretary of State Martina Dalic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-03-0.u29548	Thank you very much. I'd like to look back at a few facts that have been presented and updated and partially informed. The problem of indifference. I want to say that the finding that payment deadlines are extended 50 to 100% is not correct. I would like to point out that the state budget pays its commitments in time. I would like to point out and remind you of the level of liabilities found at the beginning of this year and the level of deficits in the last year of 6.3% which has been reduced precisely because they have reached and the outstanding liabilities paid. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that the problem of interest rates and interest rates mentioned here in Croatia today is achieving lower interest rates than before a year ago, i.e. the margin Croatia paid a year ago compared to the reference interest rate was 1%. Today it is 0.4, so it is the market and most effective measure and the most objective, I would say, which shows that the market has valorised the results achieved over the past year, and it is right through them that it valorises the stability of the Croatian economy. Thank you very much for the comments made and suggestions made to the Deposit Insurance Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-03-0.u29549	Thank you very much. We have one correction to an incorrect quote. Mr. Representative Mato Church. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-03-0.u29550	It is said that the finding that payment deadlines are extended from 50 to 100% is not correct, i.e. the state budget fulfils its obligations. That's not true because my point is correct. I was not talking about the implementation of the state budget obligations, but about the state liquidity situation and also about the implementation of the state budget commitments can be specifically discussed, start from health and the rest. But the fact that the money and capital market shows that payments between economic operators, between financial and other entities, were extended in total transactions in the country during 2004 by 50 to 100%. These are the professional findings of institutions dealing with money and payments.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-03-0.u29551	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. They'll decide when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-03-0.u29552	Final proposal of the Deposit Insurance Act, P.Z. No. 184. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please, let's get on with it. Please vote. Score. I find that, with 77 votes for and 2 abstentions, the Deposit Insurance Act in the text was passed as proposed by the Government.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-03-0.u29553	We are going to - Final proposal of the Road Transport Act, second reading of P.Z.E. No. 160 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, you have received the proposal in boxes. In the case of the adoption of this law, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the Law shall apply to Articles 155 to 157. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on European Integration and the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Communications. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? He does. State Secretary Mr. Drazen Breglec, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-03-0.u29554	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, the distinguished ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. In short, I will just look at the differences between the first and second readings in the adoption process, I hope to propose this Law. Therefore, in this final proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on road transport, one of which is a large number of complaints made on boards, the maximum number of objections has been observed. A significant number of objections made during the debate in the first reading was also respected. In particular, I would like to note the following from the concrete major remarks that have been accepted. The compliance with the Road Safety Act has been carried out both in a manner and in a section relating to the conditions that drivers must meet. As you know, the border has been abolished, i.e. the earlier age limit for carrying out the driver's duties in the proposal, the first bill has been limited to 65 years. It is also noted in Article 3 where all the proceedings under this Act are subject to the provisions of the General Administrative Procedure Act and this is the explicite here. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The final draft law, as well as the draft law, remains a good reputation as one of the conditions for the license. However, the same article is now linguistically consistent with the observations made at the plenary session and on committees, so that it is now settled when the tadus, the conditions when they need to be met physically and when a legal person. The most significant change in our view compared to the basic version, the first version of the Law comes from facts, i.e. Article 6 is contained, and it stipulates that transport can be carried out by vehicles not older than 18 years old. It's a passenger transport. While that limit to student transportation has been raised to 10 years. This was, therefore, fundamental to me, the Committee, the Maritime, Transport and Communications Committee, also stemmed from many individual discussions. The promoter has observed these remarks. He set up explicits in the Law restrictions which are therefore 18 years for buses in line transport, 10 years for buses carrying students. This provision also requires a brief explanation. Here's thanks for the remark I'll cut short, so it's important to know that this provision makes 30% of the buses that are now travelling in the transitional period of a year that is scheduled to be thrown out of traffic. So this is a very important provision, the oldest vehicles that would likely experience their destiny as planned are thrown out, but this includes the explicits of the Law. In addition, several comments have been made, and several comments have also been adopted, and this would ultimately be all of the least significant, if necessary, after the debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-03-0.u29555	Thank you very much. Do the reporters want work tels? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. They'll decide when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-03-0.u29556	Final proposal for road transport law, P.Z. No. 160. The debate on the text of the Law is over. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee. I would ask Secretary of State Drazen Breglec to be shown on amendments 1 to the amendment to Article 5.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-03-0.u29557	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-03-0.u29558	It becomes an integral part of the law. Article 6 is replaced by the following:
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-03-0.u29559	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-03-0.u29560	It becomes an integral part of the Law. 3. of Article 9.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-03-0.u29561	It shall be accepted in Part 1 which reads, in Article 9(2) of the first subparagraph of the word "general security of persons of property" in both cases, shall be deleted, accepted. The second part of the word "two" is replaced by the word "three" is not accepted for the reason that the proposed solution is a more efficient contribution to road safety.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-03-0.u29562	President of the Legislative Committee, Florian Boras.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-03-0.u29563	I agree.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-03-0.u29564	Amendment adopted in the accepted section. 3. of Article 9.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-03-0.u29565	Excuse me, Mr. President. This was an indication on the third amendment. The second amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-03-0.u29566	2. The amendment shall be adopted, in accordance with Article 6. Okay. 3. of Article 9. That's exactly what we are. For the purposes of this Regulation, the following
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-03-0.u29567	Acceptable 4. Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-03-0.u29568	It's becoming an integral part. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-03-0.u29569	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-03-0.u29570	It's becoming an integral part. Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please, let's get on with it. Please vote. Score. I find that, with 77 votes for and 1 abstention, the Road Transport Act in the text has been passed, as proposed by the Government together with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-03-0.u29571	We move on to - Final proposal of the Explosive Substances Act, second reading of P.Z.E. No. 159. The Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. In the case of the adoption of this Act, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the Law shall apply to Articles 155 to 157. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on European Integration and the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? He does. Minister of the Interior Mr. Marijan Mlinaric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-03-0.u29572	We adopted most of the amendments to this Final Proposal for the Law on Explosive Substances of the Croatian Law with Directive 90315EC relating to the placement and market and control of explosives for civil use. Furthermore, since the provisions of the applicable Law were not fully governed by the areas of production of explosive substances on site, the use of explosive substances which are...the execution of public fireworks, the execution of loud fires, and the destruction of explosive substances, which are significantly related to safety are the same closer to the final draft of the law. It is also permitted to examine the production, transport and use of explosive substances and craftsmen. The current Law set a very short deadline for the sale and use of pyrotechnic articles of class 2 from 26 December to 1 January. The proposed Law extends the deadline for the sale of Class 2 pyrotechnics to the period from 15 December to 1 January. The extension of sales deadlines does not undermine established safety levels, improve sales conditions and comply with sales conditions with neighbouring countries, reduce the impact of the uncontrolled market and increase economic impacts. Here, the final draft of the law strengthens criminal provisions in order to sanction those illegal behaviours that are most often determined by the competent inspection services of the Ministry of the Interior in the exercise of supervision. This proposal also lays down procedures for assessing the conformity of explosive substances. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-03-0.u29573	I thank Minister Mlinarich. Do the work bodies want reporters? They do. President of the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security Mr. Representative Ivan Jarnjak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-03-0.u29574	The Committee on Internal Affairs, Mr Vice-President, colleagues and colleagues, the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security, held at the 28th session held on 2 December 2004 following the discussion, reached a unanimous conclusion to support the Law in the proposed form of explosive substances. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-03-0.u29575	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. They'll decide when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-03-0.u29576	Final proposal of the Explosive Substance Act. The debate on the text of the law is over. Proposed Law P.Z. Number 159. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee. I would ask the chairman of the Florian Boras Committee to show himself on the proposal of the Committee on Legislatives, given the additional report on these two amendments and the position of the Government.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-03-0.u29577	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues... P.Z. No. 159 and the bill had 2 amendments, but one error was stolen, and we gave the correct text of amendment 2 with the permission report of December 3rd. So the correct text of Amendment 2 now reads: "Articles 52 and 53."I quote the text of the amendment, "Article 52(3) and Article 53(3) after the word "reversible" add the words "or another natural person." [[You can't hear the speaker.]] And the new paragraph 2 of this amendment is added in Article 53(1), paragraph 11: "trades": "or sell pyrotechnic means for class I entertainment contrary to the provisions of this Act." Therefore, this supplement was required in accordance with the amendment to Article 29, which also provides for a criminal provision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-03-0.u29578	Thank you very much. Amendment 1 to the Legislative Committee has been adopted, as well as Amendment 2 in this updated form. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please, let's get on with it. To vote. Score. I find it unanimous with 79 votes to pass the proposed law along with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-03-0.u29579	We move to - Final proposal of the Law on International Legal Assistance, emergency procedure, first and second reading of P.Z.E. No. 222. Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings of the Law. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate, Article 164. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on European Integration, the Committee on Justice. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? He does. Madam Secretary of State Snježana Bagic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-03-0.u29580	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. The proposal for a Law on International Legal Assistance in Criminal Matters is assessed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia as necessary for two reasons. First, because of the very fact that, this matter which is extremely important for international legal aid and criminal civil matters,...I am talking about the Proposal of the Law on Criminal Matters, has not been normised and fully governed by some special law. As an auxiliary if I may say so, the provisions of the special chapter of the Law on Criminal Procedure of 93 C.E. We passed a new Criminal Procedure Act in 1997 but we took over chapters 30 and 31 relating to the provision of international legal aid and the enforcement of international contracts on criminal matters and the extradition of accused and convicted persons on the one hand. On the other hand, it is therefore necessary to pass this law because it appeared in its application and practice a series of issues which could not be resolved without the adoption of a specific law such as communication with other judicial authorities, the possibility of direct communication without diplomatic pathways directly through the Ministry of Justice or directly by the judicial authorities themselves in certain cases, the question of relations between the Ministry of Justice and its internal bodies, the question of language, communication and the like. On the other hand, the adoption of this law and this has and is necessary for the sake of the international obligations of the Republic of Croatia, and this obligation arises from the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. Therefore, this law is also to the maximum extent in line with all the international obligations and conventions undertaken, and I will list only some. This is the European Convention on Mutual Legal Assistance in Criminal Matters with an Additional Protocol, the European Convention on Extra Protocol extradition and other Additional Protocols, the Convention on Transfer of Convicted Persons and the like. And similar international acts, I listed only the most important. Therefore, this text of the law is, as far as possible, not to be derrogated, challenging the Constitution and our other laws in line with these international conventions and acts. As the term says, the law regulates the issue of international legal aid, so it opens the way for communication between competent judicial authorities and, as I said, unlike the present situation, direct communication will not be necessary through diplomatic means, but direct co-operation between the justice ministries or direct courts or state lawyers will be possible. It also addresses the issue of extradition and the taking of enforcement of foreign court decisions, these are known transfers. One newspaper is being introduced, it is a shortened extradition procedure in certain cases that has never existed until now but is related to these international conventions and acts that we have taken and this obligation is therefore a result of implementation into our system. One newspaper is, and this comes from us, the adopted law, the Law of Legal Responsibility, criminal responsibility, I apologize, legal persons. Thus, international legal aid applies not only to natural persons but also to legal persons. It is also possible for international legal aid not only to apply to criminal proceedings but also to close proceedings, so infringements conducted before certain administrative authorities such as foreign exchange inspectorate, customs and tax administrations. Here, Mr. Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, so briefly and in importance about this bill that needs to be passed on the one hand in order to fully regulate the issue of international legal aid for extradition on the one hand, and on the other hand to comply with the commitments undertaken by the Republic of Croatia and international acts. All committees conducted the debate. We have amendments to the Legislative Committee to be adopted by the proposer in order to contribute to the improvement of the text. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-03-0.u29581	Thank you very much. Do the work bodies want reporters? They don't want to. I'm opening a debate. There's no one from the clubs. An individual debate Mr. Rade Ivas. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-03-0.u29582	Thank you, Mr. President. Just for a little while. I see it's time, we're waiting for a break. I am merely expressing my support for the adoption of this law because we meet all obligations undertaken by international criminal, convention and harmonising legal solutions with the legislation of the European countries, which relate to the area of international legal aid in criminal matters, in particular to the extradition of accused and convicted persons and to the transfer of convicted persons in order to effectively implement these proceedings. Due to the growing development of international relations, integration processes and in particular the mobility of people and the importance of international co-operation in criminal and legal matters is increasing. The countries are increasingly forced to co-operate internationally in countering crime which is becoming more transnational and does not know the state borders and their danger is increasing no matter where the crime is taking place. Therefore, the Republic of Croatia must also comply with the provisions of international law in this area and adopt laws on international criminal law aid that would be more modern and more consistent with international conventions and remove ambiguities in the application of certain provisions of the Criminal Procedure Act. In the Republic of Croatia, the matter of international legal aid in criminal matters was partially regulated by the Law on Criminal Procedure of 1993, the Law on Criminal Procedure and 1997. In its transitional provisions, provisions on international legal aid have been derivated, with the exception of Chapters 30 and 31. During practice, international legal aid in criminal matters, which is the basis of the current rules, have also raised several issues, not to mention them now. All these issues are brought into line with this law. Therefore, this law, given that we are also harmonising it with European Union legislation, should be adopted and will also be adopted by the HDZ Club. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-03-0.u29583	Thank you. No more reports. I'm closing the debate. They'll vote when the conditions are met. I now announce that the session will continue at 3:00 p.m. when the vote will take place. I ask the MPs to bring the keys with them for an electronic vote, and I wish you a good run.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-03-0.u29584	Final proposal of the Law on International and Legal Assistance, P.Z.E. 222. The debate is closed. The amendments submitted by the Legislative Committee were accepted by the Proposer. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please engage. We can vote. Score. I find that with 75 votes for, please, a little more, 75 votes for and 2 abstentions have been passed by the proposed law. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we continue our work at the 11th session of the Croatian Parliament. On the agenda - Final proposal of the Law on the Classification of Unprocessed Wood, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 221 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. The emergency procedure combines the first and second readings, and the amendments can be submitted until the end of the debate conducted by the Committees on Law, European Integration, Agriculture and Forestry. I would like the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy of Mr. Josip Bartolić to further explain the proposal. Here you go.
