ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-30-0.u9649	I'll try not to be too emotional, even though I'm very emotional. [[The speaker was subsequently activated.]] We have information verified, terrifying from the first hand that General Makač and General Cermak have been denied to defend themselves from freedom, we at the Club are amazed by that fact. Even more startled are General Makach and Cermak, especially General Markac, who we know is quite a difficult disease and heart attacks that he also had sugar. They are no longer appalled by the fact that they received guarantees from the minister of justice and the government that they will be and will be released by Easter. Afterwards, we heard from them, so they asked us not to hold a debate about the charges of thinking according to the government's promises that their request would be resolved positively, and therefore this is a big scam. So they were deceived by two of them which were worst deceived and the Croatian public was obviously and the Prime Minister was deceived, we also know that the Minister of Justice said she did not follow them because of the fact that they would be back by Easter, so she did not follow a group of other indictees, our generals of our friends, our comrades, and this is a sad fact that in the last 10 years we have done nothing systematically and what we are guilty of is happening. We also have some new information that despite the Hague prosecution's promises to bring new charges. Therefore, we need to take seriously the situation we are in and we need to hold a debate on this subject but we need to try to defend the national interests of the defenders above all, the Homeland War, because we will be responsible for our children, grandchildren and great-grandsons. So the situation is more than serious, we've been deceived, especially by the generals, and I have to say the same thing about this part that I expect to hold this debate soon, try to draw conclusions first, figure out what kind of situation the state is and we also can't accept that the State Secretary is now talking to us, we know what the government is, how many members there are, and we would expect if not the Prime Minister then a vice president or one of the ministers were to address us and today there were ministers. Because that way I have nothing against the secretary of state but we underestimate the generals. In a way like this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-30-0.u9650	Thank you very much. I ask that State Secretary, Snježana Bagic, give the necessary information.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-30-0.u9651	I would like to thank Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, as already known in this House and the Croatian public as well as otherwise informed by the Government late last night, the Hague court rejected General Ivan Cermak and Mladen Markac's request for temporary release. The request was immediately notified by the government and their lawyers, the request was rejected for reasons, which is what the Hague court said before the generals were interviewed. Therefore, the Government of the Republic of Croatia expects that after the generals are discussed, they will be released temporarily after the request has been repeated. I repeat, the request was rejected because of this, and I am merely drawing attention to it, and the chief prosecutor of the Hague tribunal for this reason explained why they were opposed to letting them go free so before talking to them. I also note that the guarantees provided by the Croatian government have not been questioned in any case, nor have they been subject to the reason why the request was rejected. So much for this because it is a decision of the Hague Court as the bodies it decides and the government will continue to provide full assistance to the team of lawyers defending the generals and confirming the guarantees it has provided, although as I repeat, they have not been questioned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-30-0.u9652	Thank you, ladies and gentlemen, we have received this information. I'm closing the session. In line with the request of the HSP Representatives Club, previously, please welcome colleague Lucin.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-30-0.u9654	Mr. President, thank you very much. Here, let me take one sentence. Since tomorrow is the International Labour Day, allow me to congratulate you representatives of the Croatian Parliament and all those who look at us on behalf of the Social Democratic Party on the International Labour Festival and I believe that there will be more and more work in Croatia in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-30-0.u9655	Thank you very much. I, on behalf of all of you and all of us, on behalf of the Croatian Parliament, gave the card a proper and thank you very much, and then, in accordance with the request of the HSP Club, I set a 15-minute break. Ladies and gentlemen, we will proceed with the work of the 6th session. Let us welcome students and pupils of the elementary school Prečko and their teachers who follow the work from the gallery. We are going to - Report on the work of the Advocate General for 2003 in accordance with Article 8. A report has been submitted to the Ombudsman's staff law. [[Applause]] You received the material by mail. The debate was conducted by the Committees on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System, Human Rights and Rights of National Minorities, the judiciary, war veterans, immigration, labour, social policy and health, the Committee on Spatial Planning and Environmental Protection. Reports you received at the session. I'm asking Mr. Antu Klaric's staff attorney to take his word for it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-30-0.u11344	Ladies and gentlemen of the Croatian Parliament. It is a pleasure to welcome the new assembly of the Croatian Parliament at this session for my first report to this house. I wouldn't burden you with the great introduction and the words, you got the materials, probably everyone by the nature of their occupation looked at our report and would make every comment, suggestion or recommendation based on this report. However, I would warn that in this year's report we have apostrophe that we have a far greater number of complaints and cases, than it was in earlier years compared to earlier years, which is because this year we were able to visit Croatian premises and we visited 10 Croatian counties, with cities, villages, settlements and settlements, directly contact with local administration officials, with citizens, with people at risk, and in the afternoon we received parties. So in the field this year, we received about a thousand complaints about 700 and some complaints about our actions. I would have to remember earlier conclusions of this House, and our warnings especially in last year's Croatian government. On the tour of the territory, especially Sibenik-Knin County and Zadar County, we found that the Croatian state has no record of thousands of apartments that are via facts de jure owned by the Croatian state in which there are a large number of people without legal basis in which some families and cities have taken over two, three apartments, and that no one or very few return to the renovated houses in that area of state budget money. I have to repeat the desperate finding of the president of the Kieva municipality that says, if the citizens and the locals came back to me, I'd be full of eight-year-olds, and now we don't have to cover four classes of school. When we found out what was going on in the field, we also found that the mayors and the mayors were suing us for the fact that they couldn't affect the housing fund or the migration within that space. That many renovated houses that were renovated by the Croatian state do not now house those who received the keys in one hand. That there's no record or control of that housing fund. That hundreds of apartments in Knin occupy people with no legal basis. We recommended to the Croatian government, sent a warning in 6 months last year about such a situation with a proposal for a solution, to make a list of all state-owned dwellings in the area, to determine who and on what legal basis resides in those apartments, that those whose renovated houses have moved to their homes to their place of origin. To the Bosnian Croats who are the most domestically at risk, because they have no prospects of housing assigned these apartments to permanent use in rent, and to return to Croatian Serb nursing households their houses to property and property. I have not received any answer to these recommendations, nor any information that this situation has been established in such a way, nor that anyone has denied that it is not true. I wouldn't be attached to the exact statistical data, because we don't keep the exact statistics, my office determines only phenomena. And the phenomena are very alarming and this was, in fact, up to today's day, taboo topics regarding the use of the Croatian State Building Fund. Not to mention business spaces that are on the move of the Zagreb-Karlovac-Split highway. That other people's houses were usurped, other people's business spaces and to this day that no space was returned and that they were mostly in court disputes. I would like to welcome the announcement by the Croatian government and the Croatian Government's decision to abolish the deadline for those seeking to rebuild their homes. In fact, on the ground, I have found that there are still some counties in peripheral areas where there are no electricity or water, in which information is unreachable or remote, in which the nursing home lives illiterately, and they have lost the right to rebuild their houses because they have not submitted a request within a certain period. We sent that warning to the government last year, we got a negative answer. However, I welcome the decision of the new Croatian government that extended the deadline by the end of this year, but that is also a short term, as there are still uninformed people in these areas. They cannot be applied to the principle of ignorance, they do not excuse anyone, because we are a social state, a state that has to intervene particularly in the sphere of concern for those categories of population that are most vulnerable, whether it's material, whether it's physical or otherwise. I would like to warn again something that is not in these materials, which is the conclusion of last year's Parliament. In the past term, the Croatian government, on a proposal from the Croatian government, abolished this house, the rightful heir to the first succession order. Those who have slaved in the communist system in various Yugoslav gulacies because of political beliefs, either from Stara Gradiška, Lepoglava or Glog Otok. That one category of these people should be compensated for their material satisfaction over that slavery. It was taken right away from the children of those parents. It is a very small number category of citizens, who are still not paying off wars and material fees and satisfactions today, and their children were deprived of the true inheritance of this. It is proposed that the government submit a request to this home to return heirs to the first succession order, which would receive this material satisfaction. Because we need to know that the children of these prisoners, these prisoners, also had very serious consequences when it came to the criteria of assigning apartments, jobs, scholarships and everything else. They were not citizens of the second row, but they were prisoners just weren't in the areas where their parents were enslaved. And that is why I appeal to this small category of citizens, among whom there are also people with disabilities, and because of these consequences in Croatia, to regain the right to receive material satisfaction behind the dead of their parents. But I also warn that the commission in charge of this category of citizens also does not have enough money so that it turns out that those old people who are waiting for that charity of the Croatian state are dying and thus creating an atmosphere that the Croatian state is saving money on those fates, so I would ask you on behalf of certain moral and other values for which we have been defined in the social state of Croatia to return the right category of these citizens to that law. I warned four years ago that what I welcome is also the Croatian Government or that it will apply for an interpretation of Article 3. The interest laws. Namely, I must warn you that state public institutions such as the former Department of Payments have charged interest in a way that due to this charge interest have put out small businesses in tens and hundreds, that there are hundreds of workers left without a job, that the calculation of interest was not a bill by law but that there was actually one financial engineering "sui generis" and since it was done by the former ZAP that it was state financial engineering, that many young entrepreneurs were injured. For example, 250 workers of a Zagreb company reported to me that after 9 years of conducting a dispute before the Trade Court for a value of 50 thousand kuna, remember 50 thousand kuna, ZAP accounted for by a powerful ruling of the Trade Court 15.5 million interest. In this home in the past, we have convened such a report, warned of the destructive action of this way of calculating interest, of the great social problems that arise from this, of the great damages that occur and of a moral dimension that belongs to the face of the state because of the behaviour of individuals. To make the matter clearer, the finance ministry last called for ten times less interest to be charged together with the Trade Court. These interest rates today also account for cooperatives, savings-credit cooperatives so that they come into some situations and the debt slavery of citizens who must give up their entire houses and property. Therefore, it is not a social function of interest and needs this home as soon as possible and this government intervenes as possible. These are the phenomena you won't find in this report that every day are clapped by our office, whether it's written or oral. On your comments, I'm prepared to answer your questions, and I'd like to conclude with that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-30-0.u11345	I would like to thank Mr. Anti-Klaric for his arraignment. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, I would in accordance with Article 204(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure proposed supplementing the agenda. Under 1. Proposal for a decision on the participation of members of the Croatian Armed Forces in a peacekeeping mission in India and Pakistan, an increase from two to seven. Well, if there are no objections. Thank you very much. And another one right now, one point short, exactly what the civil defender has just pointed out, one big problem, and that's the calculation of those interest rates. So we also have a proposal for a credible interpretation of Article 3(1). The tightening interest law drawn up by the Legislative Committee would also add to the agenda. Today. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] It's ready, it's coming. It's very short. Yeah, we'll discuss it. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I agree. If it's all right with you, then I'd like to determine that the addition of the agenda has been established. Does the government want a representative? He won't take his word for it. Do the committee's rapporteurs want to take a word on the Ombudsman's report? Yeah. President of the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities, respected representative Furio Radin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-30-0.u11346	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities of the Croatian Parliament discussed the report on the work of the Ombudsman for 2003 at its 4th session of 20 April 2004. The Committee held the debate as a parent working body. The report in question was supported and it was pointed out that, by acting in the past period, the Ombudsman as the authority of the Croatian Parliament, who is tasked with protecting the constitutional and legal rights of citizens in proceedings before the state administration and bodies with public authority, became a respectable institution regardless of all the problems they face in their work and regardless of the fact that in many cases there is no necessary support, understanding and assistance of the competent state authorities. It noted that it concerns the fact that during 2003, much more complaints were received than in earlier years. The increase from 2002 is 53.34% and 44.8% respectively compared to the multi-annual average. Regardless of the reasons given by the Ombudsman, the increase in the number of complaints is primarily the result of a tour of ten counties as soon as citizens are granted access to the Ombudsman, however, it is considered that this points to a number of problems still present in the work of the state administration and bodies with public authority and which directly affects the difficult achievement of constitutional and legal rights of citizens. Special concern has been expressed by the continued increase in the number of complaints over the dispute and irregular work of the courts. The problem is, moreover, with regard to complaints for which the Ombudsman does not have the authority, as regards complaints for which the Ombudsman does not have the authority, it is the impression that citizens do not have the appropriate form of protection when it comes to such a type of complaint. Despite everything that has been done so far, the efficiency and quality of the work of the courts are far from satisfying. This is also the reason that citizens often decide to seek justice before the European Court of Human Rights. It is obvious, therefore, that it is high time to find solutions in the justice system that will increase the efficiency of courts and improve the quality of their work. Various opinions in the debate have been expressed in relation to the position of the occupier in relation to the requirements for the return of tenant rights to residents who lost this right during the war. By applying the legal provisions on the loss of tenancy due to the non-use of the apartment for more than six months. On the one hand, the opinion is expressed that it is a current law which is also covered by the Agreement on Sucession. The delay in resolving it in the near future could cause many problems, especially given that a successful solution to the issue has been said in Bosnia and Herzegovina. In addition to such an opinion on this problem, it is stated that there are data from NGOs on pressures and violent actions by a large number of former residents, and that the facts cannot be ignored. On the contrary, the view is that it is a political and not legal issue, i.e. there is no legal stand for it to be updated. In that second opinion, it should be taken into account the circumstances in which the loss of that right occurred. At the time of work and terrorism faced by the Republic of Croatia at that time, the restriction or loss of individual rights and property rights took place and took place, it was said in other countries facing similar issues. The person's attention was brought to the debate at the committee's meeting by the Ombudsman, according to which several thousand state-owned dwellings in areas of special state care have no record or care. At the same time... The citizens are not residently taken care of, especially in view of the difficult problem of living care for Croats populated from BiH and Serbs returning to those areas that are constantly creating tensions and the impression that the problem is not resolved. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Rational and legal management of state-owned housing, as pointed out by the Ombudsman, could solve perhaps 80% of housing problems in areas of special state concern. In the debate, the dissatisfaction with the finding that there are no records in state-owned apartments suggests similar problems when it comes to private property. The question has been asked how is it possible that the state shared apartments and private property without having a record of who uses these apartments and properties by whom and by whom. It is also thought that the data exist and that it is known who in the state administration can and must be available to the public but not to the public and not even to the parliamentary representatives. Such a situation is said to indicate the multi-annual failure of the legal system and the incomprehensible tolerance towards the responsible persons in the state administration whose work is part of the issue. In the controversy over the problem that arises in connection with the occupied property and its return to the owners, the position has been expressed that the right of ownership cannot be placed, and the position that the right of ownership cannot be placed before... human rights and that the circumstances under which the new population has settled in areas of special state concern in the Republic of Croatia cannot be ignored. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It also voiced the view that most people were expelled from their homes in BiH. The point is that it is pointed out that the vital population that needs to ensure survival in the Republic of Croatia rather than putting it in a position to move to third countries. It is also stressed that the whole problem should be linked to the need for demographic renewal in areas of special state concern which is said to be not based only on returnees who are most often persons... So there were more opinions on the board on this matter. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In particular, the debate stressed that a number of examples presented in the report indicate that there is no real question of responsibility for the implementation of laws and other regulations. Well, that leads to a constant repetition of the same problems. Although they are reported year by year by year in reports by the attorney general. The question of responsibility as highlighted must be asked specifically and this means... In each part of the state administration, it is known by name who is responsible for the enforcement of each law or other regulation. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And the law also found responsibility for failing to carry out entrusted tasks. That's why you're in the place... the non-compliance of the law by certain national authorities should be referred to as the responsibility of the responsible individuals in those bodies. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Finally, the opinion is also expressed that the work of the occupier and the great effort it makes to facilitate the achievement of constitutional and legal rights of citizens is not presented in the public in the right way. While the proceedings are being brought before the Human Rights Court in the media and it draws attention when it comes to, and that is good, of course, when it comes to the work of the attorney general, that is, the cases he solves and the problems he faces in public are almost, almost undetected. The greater public of the work of the attorney general is said to be needed in order to form, on the one hand, the work of the institution and, on the other hand, to get the public to know the problems they face. In this way, it would contribute to the creation of a positive atmosphere when it comes to the responsibility of the state administration and bodies that have public powers to resolve the Constitution and the law of established rights of citizens. The request and the Ombudsman's staff have also been supported for the creation of relevant spatial, human and financial assumptions for its more effective work. After the debate, the committee unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament to draw the following conclusions. 1. A report by the Advocate General for 2003 is hereby adopted. In accordance with the arguments and conclusions proposed in the report, the Ombudsman shall be assessed as necessary to provide a responsible space for the work of the Ombudsman and additional financial resources in the 2005 budget to be used for the purpose of the work of the Ombudsman on the ground. And all with the aim of facilitating citizens' communication and access through which they are given, access to the assistance given to them by the attorney general. It is proposed to the Government of the Republic of Croatia to consider these requests by the Ombudsman and to propose appropriate solutions in this respect. They shall be assessed as having access to the amendments to the Law on the Ombudsman by having a vision and experience from its 12-year application and proposals by the Advocate General and the recommendations made by independent experts on the report under consideration. Finally, opinions, objections and proposals to be presented in the debate and report, as well as observations, proposals and recommendations made by the Ombudsman in the report have been submitted to the Government of the Republic of Croatia in order to take measures to make the work of the competent state authorities and bodies with public authority more effective. Thank you very much, Mr. President. It's been a long time, but I think you should have.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-30-0.u11347	I thank the chairman of the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities, Mr Furio Radin. My colleagues and colleagues, I request members of the Expansive Presidency, therefore, the presidents or representatives of the clubs to meet me as I announced yesterday and as agreed briefly in Chamber 149. I ask Vice President Milinovic to take the presidency of the House for the time being.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-30-0.u11348	On behalf of the Committee on War Veterans, respected representative Vlado Jukic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-30-0.u11349	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Attorney General, colleagues and colleagues. The Council of War Veterans of the Croatian Parliament at its 5th session, held on 23 April 2004, discussed a report on the work of the Croatian Ombudsman for 2003, submitted to the president of the Croatian Parliament by the Polish Ombudsman of the Republic of Croatia. The Committee held the hearing as an interested working body, in accordance with Article 140. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. In the opening statement, the Ombudsman stressed a significant increase in Croatian defence complaints during 2003 compared to 2002, which is 53.34%. The share of the defenders and victims of the Homeland War has been increased absolutely and relatively. In 2003, according to his data, a total of 371 complaints were filed, making up 19% of the total number of complaints for 2003. The biggest comment on the protection of the rights of Croatian defenders refers to a multiple administrative settlement in the process of exercising the right of so-called "the" the conduct of administrative proceedings and administrative dispute on the same administrative matter and on several occasions. In the opinion of the attorney general, this happened because of the unprofessional and wrong approach of the Croatian Defence Ministry. In order to further avoid such practice, it is proposed to apply the institute to amend the ministry's solution to the administrative dispute or to metrically resolve administrative matters by the Administrative Court of the Republic of Croatia. The problem of rebuilding housing in the war on created areas has been identified by a large number of older-aged citizens who have not been granted the right to rebuild because of their unskilled or unskilled powers. The Government of the Republic of Croatia made its decision and extended the period within which renewal applications can be submitted until 30 September 2004 to the Ombudsman's initiative. There has been a problem with a large number of renovated and not inhabited houses in these areas, while illegally using apartments in nearby cities. The discussion of committee members who have all commended the report should set out the following points. Finally, the problem of the endless resolution of the status of Croatian defenders and their rights should be resolved through the maximum denial of the whole process. Efforts to resolve the problem of illegally possessed assets and the return of the same owners. Facilitate and make it more possible to buy agricultural land for those Croatian defenders who deal and live with agriculture and provide them with a priority ransom. The problem and non-compliance with prescribed legal deadlines and longevity in resolving administrative matters has been highlighted. It is necessary to ensure, within a short period of time, that adequate work space and resources are needed for field work, as this is precisely the kind of work that has led to a greater number of problems, i.e. taking on a number of complaints from citizens. After the discussion, the Committee unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Assembly of Conclusions. 1.The report on the work of the Advocate General for 2003 is accepted. 2. The Government of the Republic of Croatia undertakes to provide adequate space for the work of the Ombudsman by the end of 2005. And three. The Government of the Republic of Croatia is obliged to provide in the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2005 a dedicated amount of 155,000 kuna for the field work of the Ombudsman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-30-0.u11350	Thank you. The Justice Committee. Committee on Immigration, respected representative Zdenka Babić-Petricevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-30-0.u11351	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. At its 4th session of April 27th this year, the Committee for Immigration of the Croatian Parliament discussed the report on the work of the occupier for 2003, submitted to the president of the Croatian Parliament by the Ombudsman. The Committee held a debate in parts of the implementation reports, violations of the rights of refugees, exiles and immigrants. The occupier briefly presented the main focusses of the activities of the Ombudsman's Office and the category of citizens who are addressing his office with their complaints, employees whose employers are deprived of their salaries, refugees from BiH whose complaints are special chapters in the report. Persecutors for living care, victims of state, victims of state financial engineering and so on, political prisoners to whom they have been compensated do not pay their successors of the first order to which rights have been denied, Croatian defenders, victims of the residential mafia, pensioners and others. The occupier visited 10 counties last year to inform the public about the powers and actions of the occupier. The occupier, in particular, referred to the callers and because of his stance on the return of tenant rights to those who left Croatia to join the aggressors in Croatia. His firm opinion is that there is no legal nor moral basis for you. The opinion is: housing rights will not return to Croatia in the form they were in because they do not exist in Croatia's property and justice system, they have long since been suspended and the consequences have been permanent. Other rights can be granted to Serb returnees, such as housing care through encouraging housing. A distinction should be made between those who escaped from Croatia from those who fled to return to tanks and who would now like to get rich at the expense of the Croatian state they did not want. In the report, however, it clearly defends the rights of the Serb returnees to their property and the decommissioning of persons who have houses or apartments elsewhere and who, without delay, can move out of other people's houses or apartments. In the debate, the members of the Committee assessed the report on the work of the Ombudsman as very high quality and praised the work of the Ombudsman, because it defends the rights of all Croatian citizens regardless of their ethnicity. It came to the impression that only members of the ethnic communities were protected by the Ombudsman. They praised his commitment to Croatian defenders and requests for compliance with the Constitutional Court's decisions, with which the defenders referred their complaints, and the Croatian Defence Ministry remained deaf after their lawsuits were adopted in 2003. They presented a difficult situation involving exiles from Bosnia and Herzegovina, Vojvodina and Kosovo because they have lived in suspense for years. They are forced to move more often, children have to change schools, parents work, many in the homes of the Serb refugees. In these houses, they're only as guardians of their property until the owner returns. After the debate was held, the Committee decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament the following conclusion: A report on the work of the Ombudsman for 2003 is accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-30-0.u11352	I'd like to thank the esteemed representative. On behalf of the Committee on Labour, Social Policy and Health, respected representative Marko Turic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-30-0.u11353	Dear Mr. Vice President, the esteemed Attorney General, colleagues and colleagues. The Committee on Labour, Social Policy and Health at the 7th session of the Committee held on 20 April 2004 discussed the report on the work of the Polish Ombudsman for 2003, submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Croatian Ombudsman in an act of 22 March 2004. The Committee discussed the report as an interested working body in accordance with Article 140. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. A report on the work of the Ombudsman for 2003 was considered to be a quality and detailed demonstration of the situation in injury or endangerment of the rights of prosecutors in certain areas of administrative action. The total number of complaints has been increased. It has been observed in the debate, and this is particularly evident in relation to the number of complaints in the area of pension and disability insurance, health insurance and health care organisations, social care and in the areas of labour and employment relations, state and public servants and subsistence. The Committee held a hearing in particular in the section relating to infringement of the rights in those areas with infringements of residential rights and complaints against refugees and exiles. The largest number of complaints were received at the work of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute, its central services and the regional services. In this report as well as for 2002, the main cause of the complaints is the inadmissible length of the administrative procedure and the decision-making period within the legal and reasonable time-limit. Part of the problem is the opinion of the Committee members in the increased inflow of cases as a result of the implementation of international social security agreements with neighbouring countries. The Croatian Pension Insurance Office must therefore take appropriate organisational, personnel and other measures, as well as to address the causes of unscheduled work as quickly as possible, in order to address requests in cases for which the authorised staff of the central service and the regional services are competent. This is necessary among other things and because a significant part of the complainants find themselves in a difficult social situation in which they find themselves unwitting, for example, pensioners or part of the pension in the former republics of the former state. The complaints about violations of social care rights are also more numerous than in earlier years, and it is recommended that the social care centres deal with cases more quickly and refer the complainants to the procedure for the exercise of the rights of the social care system for which they have legal conditions. As the number of complaints is increased in order to injure or threaten housing rights, and it is mainly about the inability of poorer citizens to get into the rental of a social apartment it is necessary to take appropriate measures to build housing for people who are unable to solve their housing problem. The Committee members warned in the debate that it was necessary to reconsider the provisions of the Law on the Rights of Former Political Prisoners in particular in the section relating to the recognition of the right to inherit unpaid benefits to children of dead political prisoners who, due to their general incompetence to the work of family pension beneficiaries. Following the discussion, the Committee members unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Assembly for the adoption of the following conclusions. A report on the work of the Advocate General for 2003 is hereby adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-30-0.u11354	I'd like to thank the esteemed representative. On behalf of the board, we're no longer reported for a club debate. On behalf of the Klub HNS PGS the esteemed representative Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-30-0.u11355	Dear colleagues and colleagues in their debate in this comprehensive and large report will only look back at the part of the data and the facts that the public's attorney pointed out to his report. In the opening part, he reports that in 2003 an analysis of the work problem was carried out, results and conditions of the work of the protégé. And that the purpose of this analysis was to identify the legal financial and logistics constraints which affect the work of the attorney general and to propose measures which could or should be removed from the deficiencies and problems detected. The analysis has made several recommendations, suggestions, how problems can be solved and let only 5 of them stand out very briefly. One of the proposals or recommendations was to propose a public defender for children, as well as any specialised civil defender who would set up should act as part of an existing office of the Ombudsman instead of a separate or jurisprudence organisation. Furthermore, it has been suggested that the Ombudsman should adopt more proactive approaches to communication. Furthermore, the public defender should be more involved in the regional and international networks of similar human rights agencies. and the Government's Human Rights Office should review its function similar to that of the Ombudsman in response to complaints received and to address the possibility of forwarding such complaints to the Ombudsman and, ultimately, the Government's Human Rights Office should take steps to ensure a wider exchange of precise roles and status of the county co-ordinations that have recently been established. The careful reading of the report shows that almost none of these recommendations except those relating to the pro-active conduct of the Ombudsman and his work on the ground have been taken into account by all the bodies directly or indirectly concerned. From the 2003 data, then visiblely the following. In the past year, the Ombudsman received a total of 2389 new complaints, which is a 53.34% increase compared to a year earlier. In addition to the newly received requests from earlier years, there were 679 further requests, which means that the occupier in the previous year dealt with a total of 3068 cases. This huge increase in the number of premises can be the result of more cause, or better work by the occupier or greater courage of citizens to address for the protection of their rights. Or worse work by other institutions where civil rights have been violated. Or by increasing the number of violations of the right that resulted in the name that citizens had to address the Ombudsman. I'm not going to have any of these possible reasons to evaluate them and claim that only one or two of them is the result. But the fact is that the occupier has grown more and more cases year by year than in previous years. I think when it comes to the analysis of the content of these problems, then I must also warn that since 1149 cases when an examination procedure has been initiated in 859 cases there are 74% of the governing body, or a body with public authority, provided the requested indication. 74%, yes, so 26%. And now I wonder how it is possible that a body with public authority in the Republic of Croatia is not responding to the Ombudsman's request to be shown about the state of the cause or why someone's right has been violated regardless of whether it's a single citizen or an interested group or a group of citizens. And nothing to anyone. 26% of cases of public authorities held that the Ombudsman should not or should not respond, let alone report on the requested or submitted submissions. I think that there's something missing in the legislation, and I think now this data is alarming enough for us to reconsider the responsibility that should be sanctioned by law, that the attorneys in bodies with public powers simply cannot be ignored. Because otherwise he can't solve the problem either, he can't do anything unless the other side gets an answer. The Advocate General warns against the fact that he has a large number of complaints or submissions relating to work disputes. However, I consider it my duty to warn the Ombudsman that the occurrence of a violation of the rights of workers exists, and the system of protection of inspection control, and the judicial proceedings are not effective, therefore, the Ombudsman considers that it would be effective to establish specialised courts for labour disputes and to liven up the legal possibility of arbitration settlement of labour disputes by establishing permanent Arabisation for work disputes. I deliberately pointed this out and read it because in the government's opinion in his report, such recommendations do not say a word. So we don't know what the government's position is on what the occupier warned the government about inas when it comes to working disputes. And he made a concrete proposal. Two specialised courts and arbitration. Neither model in Croatia obviously works, nor do we have one, and arbitration procedures are extremely rare. Go on. In addition to handling the administration, administration, local self-government, not directly addressing the administrative court, the attorney general in the course of 2003, since 1952, has established the existence of individual violations of constitutional and legal rights. And the rights maturated by international instruments which the Republic of Croatia has identified as failures and other irregularities in the operation of dormant bodies or bodies with public authority. 1952 cases. I wish none of these cases would end in front of international courts or courts. And as a consequence, the Republic of Croatia must pay for compensation or punishment for the slowness of Croatian institutions. In 2003, they dominated their number of complaints on the work of bodies with public authority, and administrative bodies in the area of social security. orders of pension, disability insurance, health insurance, health care, social care and labour relations rights of government and public servants. I've singled this out as part of a report by the attorney general, which precisely affects the essence of the problem in the middle and precisely hits as a shooter there in those organisations and institutions with public powers where the highest number of violations of the rights of the citizens of this country. At the end of his report, therefore, in addition to the report, the Ombudsman also made certain proposals for conclusions that he believes might improve the work of the office in the coming years. First, it proposes that we consider and adopt the report and draw the following conclusions. By the end of 2005, an appropriate space for the work of the Ombudsman will be provided. Furthermore, the 2005 budget will also provide additional dedicated 155 thousand kunas to continue work on the ground, on a regular basis. visits to the county and receiving citizens in places outside the seat of the occupier. Finally, the Law on the Ombudsman will be amended and completed by the end of 2006 in a way to ensure the regular maintenance of office days in places outside the seat or to open at least four district offices in Croatia if I am not mistaken is proposed by Vukovar, Knin, Slavonski Brod and Gospić. In the Government's conclusion, i.e. in the Government's view on these proposals, there is no word on whether or not the Government accepts these proposals, whether or not the Ombudsman will have four regional offices or not, whether the additional means required by it do not have the only thing the Government has said about the report in question has entrusted the competent authorities of the state administration to take appropriate measures in the course of its work to remove irregularities listed in the report. I would have been far happier if we had received the opinion of the Government from which it would have resulted that all those executives, heads who are the principle of those institutions and bodies with public authority in the last year did not correspond to the Ombudsman when he asked for the public authority and those bodies where thousands of cases such as pension, social, health and disability insurance were proposed for resolution or otherwise punished and sanctioned so as to again not to conclude that not only the citizens of this country but also the Ombudsman are not responding, they do not give objects to his interventions, nor do they speedily resolve the cases. Otherwise, if we accept only the report and not the proposed conclusions, and we do not get an answer in fate who was responsible for the silence against the Ombudsman, which is why next year we will consider this report at all, except to conclude that the number of complaints is growing, and that the authorities with public authority continue to ignore the Ombudsman. Then someone in that chain is too small, unnecessary, so let's just consider who she won't need anymore. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-30-0.u11356	I thank the honourable representative. On behalf of the IDS Club, the esteemed representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-30-0.u11357	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, the esteemed Mr. Attorney General, the esteemed Mr. Attorney General. Mr. Klaric, I deeply appreciate that his report... but I believe that some things should simply lead to absurdities like he did a year or two ago with the famous one and a half minutes of address to this House in order to simply absorb the importance of this particular matter. No slowdown IDS will support this report. Secondly, I'm not going to say that the Public Attorney's Office has not been confirmed but it is undeniable, it is helpless and I am therefore asking myself a central question whether the Ombudsman can achieve legal goals in the first place, and not to mention whether the institution can also achieve citizens' expectations. In my opinion, that's actually the point. Mr. Klaric's hat is down, but his body, unfortunately, is blocked by the inaction of the other bodies of the state authorities that Mr. Lesar spoke of earlier. Because of the democratic form, it is clear that the civil defendership of the Republic of Croatia is necessary to us because of the international legitimacy of the Republic of Croatia, it is not possible to imagine a state without the Manchester even dare to say because of the confidence of citizens in the state institution, the defence is what we cannot do without, but I repeat, this body is helpless. And there is no one in this House who will not do so, except a public defender, who could convince me of it. Those who have read this report I hold that they will agree with me, so let's go in order so that someone doesn't transfer some adventure or exhibitionism or something. First on page 24 of case description 1. Because of the delay in litigation, the outcome of the case is unknown. Description of case 2, in order to refut some solution of the Croatian Defence Ministry, the outcome of the case unknown. Case description 3, in order to speed up case resolution at the Administrative Court, the outcome of the case unknown. Four, the outcome of the case unknown. Five, the outcome of the case unknown. Six, the outcome of the case unknown and so almost in any case touched by the occupier. So the attorney general is asking for some sort of intervention from a state body, but there's just no reaction from that state or para-state body. This in some ways says that the institution of the occupier in the heads of some individuals from the state government is understood exclusively for the sake of more order than the desire to influence something. Due to the fact that there is no country that has no occupier, clearly Croatia must have it, but let's agree that it is marginalized, it is belittled, it is inadequately located, it is helpless. Far away, I will once again say that this institution does not need Croatia, I said it is necessary. But it's as if it's becoming in its helplessness under allegations that no one gets me wrong, the wrong address. However, I personally hold that I should not be as concerned as the Ombudsman of the public that we should be concerned about this assessment, and about our citizens that I am not wasting my words. What does that mean? That our citizens remain without the last address they can address, who will listen to them, who will receive them, who will in some way talk to them. It is clear that those who have you will not address the occupier, what to spend someone will say time, patience, nerves. The occupier is mainly addressed by the poor who tried everything, and clearly his rights in this state cannot be realised, or the vacancy attorney is mainly addressed by those who have nothing, or who have nothing. It is likely in its insensitiveness whether it is administrative bodies, courts, etc. These people in these departments are handled by logic to be cynical, why should we be the ones to meet a poor woman who has nothing, so I guess she can't lose anything. If by any chance it were different, so it wouldn't just be in this report, so I dare say, 90% of these cases just ended up being unknown. Dear gentlemen, these very unknown cases, I think the greatest criticism of the operation is the failure of Croatian society. Legal protection except that it is expensive, it is inefficient, the poor inaccessible, it has been compromised, it may also be corrupt, so if you want the biggest problem of the Republic of Croatia. Then what's he saying? IF the judiciary, the judiciary, means, in the broadest sense, that the word is largely one of the serious brakes of change or, as one might say, the movement of this country. What else do you say, say, about this report? I am pleased that the Public Advocate on page 192 has found that the Istrian County is the least difficult county in the area of human rights. Right, I'll also say that whoever in the County of Istria receives a pension of 1,000 kunas is as hard to live as someone, speaks, in Zagreb, Osijek or Slavonski Brod, with the difference that his children can at least get down to Istria as they do to work. Because if you have a county where the unemployment rate is about 6.5%, let's say, in one Buzet, 2 to 2.5%, then it is clear that citizens in that area are occupied by some other concerns that perhaps other Croatian parts are not primarily interesting. Narcomania, clearly this is a huge problem everywhere, ecologically, the concern of the party population, and only there at 4th, 5th place comes the concern of unemployment. It is clear that other parts of Croatia are not both the City of Zagreb or the County of Istria where we deal with the problem of refugees, exiles, the return of the residential area, unemployment, etc., etc. It's clear to me that the Attorney General is dealing with those with whom, as I said, no one wants to deal. First of all, that's where I think of the poor girl. Those who have, I said, know how to take care of themselves anyway, and those who don't have that defense remain some last resort. However, they also know that this is not the path that promises, because if citizens felt that one of the state's attorneys would stop then it would certainly not have dealt with only 2,000 300 cases last year, but in a country where over a million and 300 or a million and 500 thousand lawsuits a year, perhaps much more so. What would be good is that the State's Attorney's Office might, on the basis of its report, analyse how the administration, i.e. the judiciary in Croatia works. Someone's gonna say bad, they're gonna say maybe not at all. All my life in this country as if it were subjected to a continuous administration so I dare say there is probably no more bureaucratic state than Croatia. Why is that? Well, probably not because of this House or because of the law, but because of the sublegal acts that this other echelon in the state exclusively adapts to itself to justify its existence. And indeed, in this country where, as we had the opportunity to hear of a pigsty, we must ask for the consent of the Ministry of Culture or where the fence, the wire around the henhouse, if it is more than a meter and 80 must be asked for a building permit, there is nothing else to be said down that we are a country of absurdity. If we do not get rid of this, this red tape will be used by Croatia because in Croatia everything seems to be just not to be done. And that's the point. On page 195, I came across a piece of information that made me almost amazing that thousands of associations operate in the area of Istria. Indeed, if so, who says that we are a depolitical society. Just the other way around. There is no more politicised appearance of society, perhaps it is the price of transition than Croatia. And a grouse of these associations has clear and political ambitions. On the side that they declare themselves in a way that they don't know them. The most valuable part of the 2003 report concerns the so-called possessed assets in areas of special state concern. There was an apostrophe case just now. The problem of civil, property rights, avoided the population, etc., clearly it is also apostrophe. These are painful questions, these questions need to be resolved because until they are resolved, it is as if, under quotes, the war will last. So as the Rabbit case is being solved today, just today the Deputy Prime Minister, Mrs. Kosor, should receive surviving members of that family, so work on returning any refugees, whether their property, and by including in the life of that refugee population, although I am aware that this will be almost impossible in those areas where the normal unemployment rate is 35, 40 or 45%. The problem of tight interest, which was apostrophe of the distinguished Mr. Klaric in the oral part of the report, should also be paid special attention to it. Recently, Justice Minister Mrs. Ozbolt told me that from 90th to 2004 there was as much money in this country as Croatia's external debt at this time. The cameras, as the attorney general says, are all of them. From the state through local self-government. There were tight interest rates 24, 21, 18, now 15%, about banks that may have been worse than those lenders who asked for 3 or 5% a month not to talk. We are more or less likely to agree to this authentic interpretation being conducted today. I welcome the government's intention to pay particular attention to this matter, however, I believe that this is not the time to discuss it today. Perhaps this should be discussed at a special session of the Parliament because on the one hand, this authentic interpretation could be one of the most significant economic measures of the new government. Nothing may happen because of the authentic interpretation, but it can also destroy the entire banking and economic system of this country, about the court we're not talking about. Whether or not we will now be able to retroactively ask any state, local self-government, banks or some third institutions for overpaid money. For the end, I repeat. I deeply respect Mr. Klaric. IDS, I said, they'll vote for this report. However, Mr. Klaric, more specifically, the attorney general is in the position of the Parliament to speak, to perform, to assume what his conscience requires, but he is as helpless as we are helpless, as we are parliamentary representatives. We're helpless, and in our inability to influence anything, I find a lot of understanding for mere counseling. On the side of the Attorney General's Office's accommodation. We don't have chairs either, aside, I don't know, a team, and we don't have one. On the side, as someone would say, none of yours is cut. No one's taking us seriously either. So I want to say it. If we want to help the Parliament, if we want to help this institution, then we also need to help the public defendership. Let us, therefore, make this institution credible because that will make the Parliament more credible, and that will be possible if we ourselves ask those who provide us with the answers "the outcome of the case unknown", why they simply do not respect one of the major state institutions such as the Public Attorney's Office. Now, if after this report someone might take some measure that the answer unknown no longer appears in so many reports for 2004 that the Assembly will discuss next year, the Ombudsman would certainly have a "full sense" and the citizens would gain full security in the institutions of the Croatian state. Once again we support this report and perhaps it was someone who would say inappropriate form but once again I repeat some things simply in a different way perhaps we should apostrophe that they are being debated beyond this House.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-30-0.u11358	I thank the esteemed representative Caine. On behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community, distinguished representative Drazen Bosnjakovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-30-0.u11359	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Attorney General, colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian Democratic Community Club accepts this Report and this Report is indeed very abundant, very comprehensive and almost in its form the collections are numbered precisely in a specific case, concrete cases from which all difficulties and obstacles are seen by our citizens in achieving and protecting their rights and interests in the proceedings before state bodies. FROM this Report we can analyze all the problems that are highlighted and really statistical are very well processed, we can come up with two facts. There is a problem with the ineffectiveness of the judiciary and it is evident that there is actually a problem with the slowness and ineffectiveness of the state administration. But these are the problems we've actually known before. We all advocate all the parties and all the earlier governments that were in our programmes we have as principle goals that we will solve the problem of the judiciary, that we will have a better quality state administration, that is indeed not easily solved problems, these are things that are being solved over a longer period of years, for which a lot of measures are needed, a lot of acts taken and, as we can see earlier, the government has put a lot of effort, of course a certain shift is here. And this Government, I think that we, as a new assembly of the Parliament, have started well, because we remember that at one of the first sessions, we have brought an amendment to the Law on Courts, which I see now to be applied, because the President of the Supreme Court has distributed 60 thousand cases, working disputes to surrounding courts from the Municipal Court of Zagreb, which means it will lead to the consequences that the cases will be dealt with quite quickly. As far as the state administration is concerned, and that's what we talked about when we changed the law and instead of 20 or 19 of the ministries that we had tried to bring it down to some smaller number, it means 14 ministries. In itself, of course, it will not lead to a faster administrative process that people will better and better protect their rights, however, and that is some measure. In these four years, I hope that we will take other measures that will lead to this. In any case, we said that in the administration we needed better people, these people needed better and better quality pay, and when we had people in the state administration, when we had professional people in the ministries and on our benches would come far more high-quality bill proposals and come at the right time when we would be able to conduct a competent debate on them. Anyway, there's one measure that doesn't cost anything, which I'm going to point to here, and I'm glad the government's representative is here, too, I think he's there. I don't know if it's already used, but in any case, I think that the Government should give guidance to all the ministries that in those administrative cases in which administrative disputes are being conducted at the Administrative Court, in which complaints are filed against administrative solutions that if there are already decisions of the Administrative Court in such types of cases and there is known case law, that these national authorities must use those powers which the Law on Administrative Procedure and the Law on Administrative Courts provides to them, and that is to say that before the end of that procedure, it means the change of their own decision, and in that way we will also drive out the court and thus our people will exercise their right. Because it doesn't make sense that some case is in the Administrative Court, we already know in advance what judgment in such a case will be, and we are waiting neatly for that case to end. It's one measure that really costs no one, and I certainly think it would increase efficiency. All of the other things that are absolutely standing, and I think that as far as I'm concerned, I think we as a state must provide them with all the working conditions, because simply these reports are a picture of work, these reports are a picture of the work of the state authorities, and apparently Mr. Attorney said at the beginning that he had previously pointed to the problem of legal tight interest. So the problem is recorded and we have today's agenda and authentic interpretation of the law. Obviously it was supposed to be done before. Finally, only the Croatian Democratic Community accepts this report, we are aware of these problems, however, and the government has also put forward in its programme measures and ways to address these problems. And that's why I hope that from year to year, we're going to have to read and compare and compare these Attorney General reports every year and see if there's a shift in work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-30-0.u11360	I thank the esteemed representative Bošnjakovic. For the correction of an incorrect quote, the esteemed representative of Lucin.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-30-0.u11361	Thank you very much. I would correct the false allegation that a reduction in the number of ministries also means more effective power, because that is not true. You can have absolute authority and dictatorship and you don't really have to have an effective administration that will be in the service of citizens. A team that, in this particular case, has brought with it a reduction in the number of ministries and ministers has brought with it an increase in the number of other officials and at the same time carried out administrative units. Thank you very much. Which can normally be proved to be exact.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-30-0.u11362	Thank you, that's an exchange of views. Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-30-0.u11363	Mr. President, article 209 didn't say that, I said it was just one step towards more effective, I didn't say it would lead.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-30-0.u11364	Thank you. On behalf of the Club LIBRE, Honorable Representative William Herman.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-30-0.u11365	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Vice President, co-workers and colleagues. The first sentence should not really be avoided, but it should be said that Mr Ante Klaric is a public defender who really stood in front of an institution and did everything that this institution has authority in the great crisis of the authority of many Croatian institutions to point out this circumstance is at least important. In a dignified way, full of personal entanglement over many years, there is a sincere insistence that the area that we sometimes call "simply" in the field of human rights improves that something serious is happening in it, and with what I said, so this insistence that the authority of the institution happens, so all praises, I just had to say it. But, of course, our references to the reports don't just have to be commendable. So, by associations, including individuals who are engaged in the protection of human rights by the Croatian public at all, our public defender during all these years has been perceived as a person who makes a significant contribution to the promotion and improvement of human rights. It is known that, after all, the Constitution defined it, that its activity independently, is connected to the Parliament, and part of my own, however, I must say here, credibility may in this last year have diminished the lack of response to the schooling of small Roma, to some of the relationships that have been happening, and let this be understood as an observation that is simply linked to life facts. However, what I think is frustrating to all of us, so it frustrations the Croatian public, is that through the relationship between the Parliament and the bodies to which the government of the Republic of Croatia is addressed, there are no relevant reactions and it may in fact warn itself of what is most critical, a sign of the level of political will or of the true political will to change the situation. Whether it is only a matter of hearing or of will, we are prepared to say that this is, above all, a question of lack of political will. What we can do on our part, but also try to control what doesn't seem enough, to improve the work of the attorney general, is to support the development plan of the institution of the attorney general, there was not enough support before. On several occasions, the previous assembly may have missed the opportunity to improve the position of the Ombudsman as an institution, especially in a material way, but also in other situations. I will remind you that in this, this year's budget, the 2004 budget has not seen anything significant new, although it is in a certain sense also financial restrictions, and in terms of the material position of this institution, i.e. the Ombudsman. But he also reminded me that in the last meeting of Mrs. Vice President Kosor, she very vigorously requested that the funds be increased. Now it was an opportunity that didn't happen. Maybe my example is random, maybe it isn't, but it's important anyway, because with the rest of the disabled, they don't literally have access to the physical structure of the attorney general, because there are barriers, architectural barriers, and there's no possibility of accessing the institution. The occupier on his part for improvisation, literally so, and then encounters the disabled in some other places. Therefore, it is necessary to simply support the institution's development plan. At that point I think it would be as important as the recommendations, it's visible from the report itself to go in two steps. Therefore, to provide one short-term material support for the building of the capacity of the Ombudsman's office within 6 to 8 months, and this is the minimum period needed to implement strategic development planning with long-term and short-term objectives, implementation plans, the necessary resolution plan, and the resource-saving plan. We also think that only after the dedicated time for a structured and expert-supported process would we get a high-quality long-term strategic development plan and positions and roles of the Ombudsman and the basis for the real basis for improving its performance. So the direction of development that is indicated makes sense and we think it should be strongly supported. It is, in fact, about 4 objectives or segments that, not only need to be pursued, but really achieved with all possible control mechanisms. So, improving the legal framework, changing the name of the regiment, into a mere Ombudsman for human rights. However, for human rights, and decentralisation with the opening of the district office as well as the development of departments as indicated in the report. Of course not because I come from Osijek, but my question is, which I hope to get an answer on, why one of the district offices in Slavonski Brod, not Osijek? So it doesn't turn out to be just a story that's got a call of homeland, I can just say the information. Yes, and this is evident from the report that compared to Brod-Posavina County, the number of these infringements of the rights that are on the mission, which are within the jurisdiction of the Ombudsman 205 to 48, is sad and inadequate to say in favour. So in this area of Osijek-Baranja County and the injuries are more frequent and larger. Maybe that should be the criterion. Therefore, the expected results of the development of the Ombudsman institution in this sense should, if the bases are achieved, be significantly more research and proactive. Therefore, a report on the state of human and civil rights, not reports in our opinion on the work, i.e. an assessment of the situation only from cases which address the institution. So it's much more important in our court to face the real situation than to have information about how to say it. The reality is wider, the reality is far, far more lifelike. So, periodic reporting and constant co-operation with Parliament bodies, bodies, not only here at the plenary session. Public education through greater proactive public access, continued integration at international level. The report can otherwise be commended, it is extensive. He's primarily talking about how he works. But I will add, and also related to the previous one that should change what is going towards a research and proactive approach and the report on work is based on a case-by-case analysis of which, it is those cases which have been reported to the institution of the occupier, i.e. addressed. But what can hardly be different from this situation, but as a danger directly arises, it is that reporting, i.e. the report of work, is perceived by our parliamentary representatives and the public as a state report. I'm undermining it one more time, this is a work report, not a status report. If he is to behave responsibly, then our relationship to this report is, first of all, objective but at the same time, the relationship to the state must change, and perhaps that is the essence of the question. Namely, I think the report may give in some parts vague or not give God the wrong picture primarily of the spread of the problem in practice. When we read a report on the work in which it says that a total of 3 thousand and 68 people have been addressed to the occupier by the occupier, the complaints that in 1952, from the field of competence of the occupier's staff, it can be concluded that the situation has not been very bad and that it has been stable for several years. But when the public comes to the data and we read that the most complaints are received because of difficulties in achieving pension and disability insurance, health and social care and that this is about the limitless, quote, never a reasoned delay in the administrative procedure from page 35. Furthermore, the quote, but that the relative share of complaints in this area has fallen somewhat from 31.7 to 29.4 indicating that certain measures are being taken to resolve administrative matters more quickly in this area. It's from page 209 in the final review. Then both the public and we as advocates can again conclude that the situation is improving. However, what other NGOs are pointing to in these problems, which provide legal assistance, would not be significantly different from what we have in the report on the work of a public defender, according to the structure of the injuries done. However, the spread of the problem is higher. This specifically refers to Vukovar-Srijemska and Osijek-Baranja County. Some of my consultations with the Centro for Peace and Non-violence and the development of democracy, the protection of human rights warns. This is how time again unsustainable I would like to finally say that it is important to support the development plan of the institution of the occupier. If Parliament really cares about the state of human rights, then it should in any way support the building of capacity and development of the institution of the attorney general. Support decentralisation with this direct cheer for Osijek because the argument is given. Furthermore, it is vital to point out that the injury is more widespread than may be perceived from this work report, and I repeat, it is not a state report. I haven't been able to talk about it in particular. An important and major problem is the silence of the administration, which is a long-standing hard-core problem, and it is not quite visible directly from the report and I would ask if the attorney general can be more obvious about it. Therefore, another circumstance that the need for information and legal assistance for vulnerable groups is extremely large, legal aid but of course free legal aid and from this place we would like to warn that there is no adequate law that institutionalises free legal aid and should be discussed. The handicaps that are the largest in the system, in fact, and in terms of non-compliance with human rights, although the infringements actually come from the area of justice and public administration. Unfortunately, I did not have time to talk about some specific human rights violations, the right to housing, for example in Osijek where litigation and litigation were lost in a completely inadequate way because people simply were not there or could have been in Osijek when these things happened. That's something to deal with. So, to support the report with the desire to help the institution of the occupier as quickly as possible and also to face reports of the situation in the coming years without our role here in the Assembly being extremely active, proactive, facing the real state of things, without embellishing it. Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Thank you very much, colleagues and colleagues.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-30-0.u11366	I thank the honourable representative. It's on behalf of the SDSS Club, the esteemed representative of Ratko Gajica.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-30-0.u11367	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Attorney General, colleagues and colleagues! And I think at the club, too, we think that the report of the occupier deserves attention first of all because it's in its content and in a large way, in an illustrative way, to show what difficulties little people have on the ground floor and how much time they need and everything they face to accomplish something they're looking for as a just thing. I point out that the respect deserves Mr. Klaric and his team and because he made this report and because he shows that he understands the problem because it is described in a way that gives a good idea of what it is. What my colleague Herman just said earlier, this evaluation I gave refers to the report on the work. And if we're talking about the state of what I'm worried about, it's that the idea offered by this report if it shows the degree of order of the Croatian society then it's something that needs to be concerned. Report, the report shows how many people face the fact that they are entitled to exercise their right and that the honorable role of the Ombudsman can't help them. That's what two things come from. The first is that we have not affirmed the role of the attorney general in a way that is effective. And secondly, this means that, in the mechanism of protecting human rights and in general, in the mechanism of law enforcement, there are a number of fellers in which we actually have no law enforcement or we have some elements of illegality when they are not implemented. Who gets hurt? Little people on the ground floor are suffering. Unfortunately, minority communities suffer. Unfortunately again, some people, including Serbs, suffer in a large number of cases, and all these categories have no real understanding of the institutions that should protect them and are very often in the area of lawlessness or outside the law, sometimes also unfortunately in the area of discrimination. I'm going to be commenting here on some of the, uh, some of the contents of the Attorney General's report that kind of shows how that thing is. The attorney general says slightly less than 50% of the total number of complaints. He concluded: someone's rights were violated or threatened. Now, there go the following qualifications; determined injury, outcome unknown, or the vacancy attorney is not competent, actually not competent. When you sort all these cases into these qualifications, then there's probably a lot of situations or a lot of cases that actually a man is helpless. He reported to an honorable place and the mechanism he was supposed to run didn't work and then the thing stayed somehow in the lera, or the rest was not solved. The figures offered in terms of the final solution are the following. Recommendation 160 and something. Warnings 170 and something. Now, certain measures I've taken here as the executive attorney general has taken in 31 cases. It's too small a sum from the view of evacasity given the total mass. It's not authorized to act in 65% of cases. Of course I understand that it's the law's position and the attorney general has the right to put it that way. But that means that the people who spoke to him and spoke to him because the other exits probably didn't have to stay helpless. And a large number of these people, a large number and those who stopped it from being incompetent and others in which a recommendation was made could actually end in the following way. I'm actually afraid of closing the negative circle. The submission that went to the attorney general's office. Well, he made a recommendation or a request to some ministry or some other body. So then the answer that explains all this together, closes the circle, and we're officially done with the job and the results are gone. I don't, of course, respect that story about the attorney general, but I think it's quite possible in practice for things to end that way. I'm, like, now I'm talking like a dypression, and actually, no, I didn't have a conversation this morning, and some people have found me talking about the purchase of apartments nationalized. And they speak of great numbers, they speak of great years, and they speak of great injustice. It occurred to me that it was all together in this one negatively closed circle. Something that the attorney general here mentions as clean data. He speaks of illegally occupied bars and illegally populated families and draws a conclusion, the owner is completely unprotected. I'll say two illustrations here. You have a situation and it's quite numerous where I've been given the house to live upstairs, your, I don't know, it doesn't matter whose, and give me a place on the ground floor to do commercial activity. And when you as the owner say, wait, come on, give me back the bar, I've heard an explanation from an important place from... The mouth of an important man. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What's the one upstairs that's gonna survive, me, if I don't get the place to do something. An absolutely neglected question of what the owner will survive from and multiply it times 9 years. Or, I know a man, I can name you but it doesn't matter right now. The man stayed in Knin during the Storm, took his house, and he shouldn't have because he didn't leave her. And it hasn't been returned yet. It's been nine years. I'm sorry, I, when I prove I immediately think of what I'm doing from the beginning, the degree of arrangement of Croatian society is measured by the criteria of law enforcement. Apartments. The Attorney General here mentioned in his report the people who left the apartment, driving their things away. I could even agree with that qualification he gave there. What I couldn't agree with is the absence of stories in the report of those people who left the apartment in my opinion left without taking any stuff and went into anything. And now, the qualification is, you know, when we go through that logic, the law has abolished the tenant's right, he's gone, and he's gone, and he's been bitten by a donkey wolf. But now, let's assume the story of the man who says: I left, everything I had left in my apartment and went to nothing. I should be explained the logic by which that departure qualified to go willingly, went willingly. I guess he's willing to mean "all things carry to himself." Now, I can understand the interpretation that goes in a way that has changed the law, etc., but it's about people from the ground floor, it's about people with no psychic peace, no elementary living conditions, no social respect, no understanding of the environment, no real hope, I could even say God of them raised his hands. Can we ignore that "sniffed wolf" on the trail of justice for this to come up with a solution? And I'm only saying that because I'm kind of sensitizing a position that's on the verge of justice because it's about a man on the ground floor with these qualifications. There's another thing that's mathematical. A husband and a woman with a 70-year-old internship singled out of a residential building, let's say 500 marks a year, I suppose. That's you, that's 35,000 marks and probably more. And now he willingly left the apartment. And not depending on who it is. That's why I'm a little dissatisfied, because in a report by the occupier's attorney when he talks about apartments, he hasn't changed a little bit since he seems to know it. There's one more thing I want to warn you about here. Rightfully, no matter what we may think, the sensual sensual sensualist of the sensual feeling is that the settlers from the Woodland in Golubica have achieved psychological peace. That everyone has psychological peace. That everyone has psychological peace should absolutely respect. I would pray, I would only ask that attention be directed to many examples of psychological unrest for various reasons. And then, in all that, the role of the attorney general must be an attribute of honor. I'm going to give you some illustrations here at least they might not be suitable for a story from this place, but I'm not talking about them for the individual content, but for the sake of action. In kindergarten, in kindergarten at one competition, a lady like, as a nurse and the only one meeting the conditions, the people who decided didn't receive her because there weren't enough hands up. Because they did, because most of them abstained. And I unfortunately heard the explanation: “Well that’s legitimate”. It's legitimate because there weren't enough votes, and it's actually law to the board. I'm alone, I'll tell you it's not of course, even maybe you can say it's pointless. I'm neither murky nor afraid. But I came to the office and a woman said to me, "You know I could not tell you that." And I say. “Well, what depends?” he says, “It depends on what I will.” And then I say, “Please tell me what kind of will you are today?” and so on. I came in two offices later. Well, I'm talking about, uh, what kind of position a man, a little man from the ground floor, is gonna find who's afraid to open the door. I will conclude in the following way: I, I agree, and we will support the report by the Ombudsman, but with this definition, the report on the work. We are very concerned about the degree of order of society that can be read through illustrations written by the Ombudsman in his report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-30-0.u11368	I'd like to thank the esteemed representative of Gajica. In accordance with Article 207, paragraph 2 of this Article, the time has elapsed for application under this item of the agenda. On behalf of the HSLS-DC Club, Vice-President of the House of Đurđa Adlešić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-30-0.u11369	Thank you very much, fellow Vice President, Mr. Klaric, colleagues and colleagues. We have before us a seventh report from the occupier's attorney general for, this is for 2003. I must say that I remember his previous reports, and they are all traditionally exhausting with a cut of the burning problems that are causing citizens that they cannot solve without the help of the state. There are also observations, conclusions, recommendations made at the end of the report that deserve special attention and it is necessary to consider them by the state authorities and organisations to which they relate, however, if this is not happening and according to those remarks at the end when we do not know what the outcome is then the question of such discussions is really being raised. Because once a year, we listen to and read the report, conduct a discussion, and then wait a year for a new report, and actually do not follow the consequences of this report or what is being corrected on these copies. Analyzing the work of the Ombudsman, I think it is primarily necessary to define it according to the Constitution as the authority of the Croatian Parliament which authorised it to protect constitutional and legal rights of citizens in proceedings before the state administration and bodies with public authority. That's according to Article 92 of the Constitution. However, it seems to me that there is a wrong idea of the responsibilities of the Ombudsman, resulting in a large number of complaints from citizens to that state body which it is unable to resolve or not in its jurisdiction. And not knowing the legal authority, the responsibilities of the attorney general may ultimately result in disappointment and loss of faith in the functioning of the rule of law among applicants of such complaints. Therefore, the Ombudsman institute should be further brought closer to the citizens and it seems to me that such objections have already been and in a simple, generally acceptable way to explain to the citizens the responsibility of the Ombudsman, the way it works, as well as the power to take measures. Because it must be clear to the citizens that the attorney general ultimately does not solve citizens' problems. On the basis of the complaints, he sees them, takes measures that he is legally authorised to do so and only helps the complainants to exercise some of their rights, which he has been denied because of the error of those bodies. I think a debate like this is actually an opportunity to explain what a public defender can, which can't and thus help to improve the efficiency of that office. Looking at the 2003 report, it is evident that an increased number of complaints, especially those relating to, courts for which the attorney general is not in charge, are then forwarded to the Ministry indirectly. However, the number of complaints shows that the situation in the judiciary remains alarming. We also have an increase in complaints from the domain of labour relations, in the areas of pension and disability insurance, health insurance, social care, and if we so count and compare with reports we have had so far, then we will see that the observations are actually almost in the same areas where they were in previous reports only varying the number of complaints submitted and although at the end of these reports we always have proposals for measures. It would be really good if we could get an answer about 6 months later, which was done in these proposals. How could this really not be just one of... The proposals for measures are necessary, but also a report which was made after these remarks. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] We can say that there has been a trend in improving cooperation between the public defenders of the administrative authorities and bodies with public authority, but there are still some state institutions that do not show sufficient co-operation, they are deafened even though their minimum obligation to at least respond to the memos. What we would certainly like to praise is that it is a tour of the county and cities because it is an opportunity for the Ombudsman to talk to a large number of citizens who otherwise do not have such an opportunity. Of course, it would be good to tour all the districts, bring that closer to the Attorney General's Institute. I must say with great pleasure that it was just the Bjelovar-Bilogor County and the town of Bjelovar one of those where there was actually almost least complaints, and there were some small praises on, to work. I will remind you of 2002 and the remarks that were made at the time, which was the situation in the departments of juvenile institutions limited to freedom of movement. Why would I bring that up? Because it was in 2003 that the consequences of such warnings were seen. Let me just briefly remind you of Little Losinj and similar events. So in time it was warned, however, that part of the warning by the Ombudsman and our discussions had been deafened. We also have the right to compensation for the children of former political prisoners. Well, I'm saying again, you should know what's out of these remarks, and the proposal, and it's possible that we can implement it from our debates. And then inform the council. In the end, I would advocate as most of the MPs who have debated, and that is that indeed the staff attorney's office is trying to secure a more appropriate work space. A colleague, Herman, even warned against the fact that disabled people could not enter that area. He thus considered the number of employees because it is clear to the number of parties but that this number of employees cannot do the job within a satisfactory short period. Of course it's also necessary to update the office's structure. And when it comes to funding, we all admit it's a small asset. but there is a budget rebalance, and if we agree in the budget rebalnasa, I think we should also remember today's debate. We'll take this report as a club of HSL and DC. Recommend to the auctioned administration of bodies that have public authority to other state institutions and local officials, to get a detailed understanding of the report. With complaints from citizens, they could in quite concrete cases contribute to faster more effective work and attitude towards citizens who use their services. Some of the colleagues in the debate said that actually the public defender was helpless. It's a term that's been mentioned in this assembly for several years. So if we wanted to be bad, we would ask if he was really helpless and he had arguments about how he would help others. You really need to find models to get to the public. And what you, sir, are able to say to your brother-in-law, is more often and publicly about the problems you face in your work. once a year according to inform the Council's information, and the proposed measures is definitely not enough. I'm sure you'd take our suggestion this way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-30-0.u11370	Thank you. And the name of the National Minority Club, the esteemed representative of Nikola Mak.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-30-0.u11371	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Mr. Attorney General, Mr. Secretary of State, remain present. There is once again a thick book of man's troubles and injustices, and in the pursuit of the irresponsibility of those who should be first in respect of legality and justice. And on this occasion we consider this report to be of quality with a full picture of the state of relations, dissatisfied and often powerless citizens. And the bodies of the state administration and other bodies with public authority. It will again establish insufficient and limited personal spatial and financial measures in which the Ombudsman works and acts and is satisfied with the formal conclusion that these conditions should finally be met. But the facts are here in front of us, and they're very impressive. First, 53% more complaints were filed last year than last year. With an unchanged number of professional employees. This means that this office has dealt with more than 3,000 human troubles and fates along the basis of the pre-conceived years of age, which inevitably points to the danger of future unscheduledness. Secondly, the most permeable and irregularity, which means injustice, was almost 30% established in property legal relations, especially in the return-related and confiscation-related area after 1945. In addition to the inadmissible slowdown, it is particularly worrying that it took the competent state authorities a full period of 5 years to adopt a key implementing act laying down criteria for the assessment of the value of the building land. It is only one act in implementing this complex law and this complex problem. In this section, we particularly highlight the violation of the right to return property both on return and on ensuring adequate and decent housing of the family that should be evicted in such cases. This should also be added to the open question of former housing law, and we believe that the commitments undertaken by the current government point to a path towards resolving this problem. Thirdly, almost 30% also dominate complaints about the work of bodies with public authority, and legal authorities in the field of social security and rights. These are from pension and disability insurance, where the untimely conduct of competent authorities or persons leads the user to the edge of the existence. From health insurance health care and social care, labour rights where the number of pending cases is on the rise, and all of this is the height of unsatisfaction and irresponsibility. Because it is possible to call such existential questions for individuals and the whole family in seven years, for example, only one debate. The fourth, growing and complaints from urban, construction and environmental protection areas. It points out the inappropriate relationship between the competent ministry and local self-government, which even the parties up the procedure and in their area all this is happening. These days, six million were set aside for demolition. If we had allocated these funds each year for urban plans of those municipalities that were unable to do so ourselves, then we would have been less destructive and therefore richer and more orderly. In particular, they are concerned that the number of complaints about the work of the courts is growing year by year most complaints about slowness, their inefficientness and unsatisfactory. What shows us in an even worse light is the number of cases ending an court in Strasbourg, which is not only the problem of those indisposeds who must be reached in other people's protection but also the problem of Croatian as a state. Fifthly, we at the National Minorities Club want to commend the work of a civil defender on the field by county, and direct contact with citizens in local communities. The number of complaints has increased, in part, as a result of the eased approach to the Ombudsman, and points to the need to introduce such permanent practice, either through office days in the counties or by opening the regional offices of the occupier. As the possible amendments to the Law on the Ombudsman are supervised, this is the occasion for this to be considered, and all for the operational and availability of the Office of the Ombudsman to users and better relations with public servants. And finally, we support this report. We support all the measures proposed by the Ombudsman and the international human rights institutions. All in the interest of timely and time-consuming work in the protection of shell rights and the rights of individuals complaining of negligence, rudeness or abuse of authority by public employees and officials. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-30-0.u11372	Thank you very much, dear colleague. Next is on behalf of the HSPa club colleague Pero Kovacevic, please welcome colleague Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-30-0.u11373	Madam Vice President, Mr. Attorney General, colleagues and colleagues. We welcome from the Croatian Party's club the right to discuss today's report by the Ombudsman and, in fact, it would be good to call it a report on the failure of the rule of law in many areas and on the failure of the state administration. It is evident that in many areas of the report, the rule of law is not working and the sad fact is that the vehicular lawyer has warned about these facts for the seventh time and nothing has changed. There are many reasons why we do not have a legal state in many areas, there are objective and subjective reasons, and we ourselves in the Croatian Assembly contribute to this because of the fact that we are passing laws not speedy on an emergency procedure, and that most of these laws are not and simulated, means that we see what and how it will cause, whether it will regulate some consequences, whether they will at all be implemented. And unfortunately, we have a lot of situations that our laws are unsimplified and inconclusive, and one of the reasons why that is so is because we in many laws state that sublegal regulations will be passed and that is said to be passed within six months. And what is the situation for the adoption of sublegal regulations can illustrate and talk about all areas. Let's say for... telecommunications. We heard here the other day that only one small part was passed, until 1.8. should be passed by all the other sublegal regulations. What was the situation in the area of defence and armed forces I spoke last time, then I said that even the president of the state had not passed six important regulations under the law and then tried to deny that these regulations had been passed in 92 years. Yes, I know I wrote them, but they are no longer variable and enforceable because the chain of command and command structure have changed. It also tries to deny us that the president, and we point to the situation as he is, that President Tudjman retired 431 in his presidential pension, which is again inaccuracy because President Tudjman retired only 104 and the rest were retired under the law as active military personnel are now retired, which means according to years of retirement. Not a presidential pension, because the presidential pension in this house was established in the third month of 95 and since then we have had a presidential pension, and I said everyone voted in favour of the law except for today's President Mesic. So it just proves that we have to make an effort and ask the Government for a full report, that it gives us a full representation in all areas of the law, which are not applicable in this area, and which sublaws were to be passed that have not been passed, and we will see that the situation is going to be quite dangerous. It is also when it comes to the minister, that the government, for example, or the president of the state, did not adopt a sublegal regulation, which should have been laid down within six months, this Croatian Parliament has determined it, then it is said to be an instructive deadline. That it's not a mandatory deadline, it's an instructional deadline. And when a citizen does not register a personal car in time, then it is not an instructive time limit, then he will be punished and for this reason we have proposed that criminal provisions be introduced for both ministers and all other responsible persons who do not act under the orders of the Croatian Parliament. If you need to get a deadline in six months, then bring it in or make a law that you won't have to lay down a sublaw. Thus, if we take care of it, we ourselves will allow the rule of law to function, to have all the regulations and to be enforceable. In this way, the situation itself is unrelated to the courts, you yourself know how many regulations have been passed in the Croatian Parliament and they are inapplicable. I've spoken with my colleagues to judges and lawyers, whether being or committing a crime isn't well described or other variations or whether he's doing all the other things. We must therefore make good efforts to fulfill our constitutional role here. As far as the work of the state administration is concerned, it can be said that in a full sense, it has become a bureaucratic purpose for itself and for everything else that has been well noticed by the Ombudsman, and it is clear that it is high time for the state administration to say what the Prime Minister is saying to say to the public, not for it to be a purpose for itself, and we hope that within that, too, this Law on the transfer of power will be able to regulate it in a way that we really have a professional and effective state administration. Namely, what is the state of the state of government that we do well to say, for we are in a certain way helping in this part. We maintain office days throughout Croatia, because it is one of the roles and tasks and we take action and so we listen to citizens and we give legal advice. I can tell you that for this time of four months since we left, we've had a number of cases, so we've received a party over what's been addressed to the attorney general and we've seen the situation. We are also pleased that in most cases we have managed to solve this because we directly called the state administration and responsible persons. You have a situation where a man submits a request, for two years no one has acted on him. You have a situation where a man robs the state administration and they tell him to come by today, come tomorrow and you have to file a request and then when a clerk is called, it's said, sir, do you know that there's an institute in the General Administrative Procedure Act that you have to take a request, or submission orally on the record? Have you ever read? Did you pass the state's professional exam? And so, in this part, I think that the attorney general for all these cases where the right has been found to be violated, that it has not been done, and especially for all of these cases, which is not even the competent authorities of the state administration, or other bodies do not report to the attorney general, that the Ombudsman may have gone with what part of the law could be possible for him, and that is to initiate criminal proceedings, to initiate both criminal proceedings and procedural proceedings. And that's why we call on the government to see in all these cases the government in its own statement, the opinion on this report said they would take action and then take measures in this section to precisely identify all those cases where the right has been found and nothing has been done, to initiate appropriate actions against the responsible persons. Because if we go over it this time, then what happened before will happen again, and I also call on all of our colleagues and colleagues that they, as representatives of the Croatian Parliament, also hold office days in the field because in this way we will help both people and we will point out here directly to the government that I have been telling for four months, is not aware of all the situations and everything in certain areas, that finally the rule of law is functioning and that the state administration in the full sense of that word becomes a service to the citizens, not to be a purpose to itself. Mrs Adlesic said the fact is that there are only 10 or 11 complaints from area II. election units. I can say I'm in area II. election units have so far had six, eight office days and the situation is no better than in other areas so I'll just tell you a few examples of a young man's credit competition, in the competition of the County of Bjelovar-Bilogor for encouraging employment of youth and women and boy who works manual labor, means he has a secure Italian market which will have 300 so-called 300 so-called. to buy hand-to-hand items. He responded to the county tender, did not even get an answer, nor could he make an insight into who got the loan and under what conditions. So that's the variant that the state can't keep quiet, that we MPs can't keep our mouth shut because everyone has to follow the rules. We're not saying this time that he's supposed to get that loan. But what was he supposed to do? He should have had insight, had insight, and the bodies had to answer. From the silence of the administration there are also many examples not only within the framework, you have today and in the newspapers, in the Ministry of Defence and in other bodies. It's the worst problem that's going on in the state administration, silenced the administration. A man submits a request and nothing, nothing, nothing, nothing. And that's why we have to help in the part to encourage because the other thing is that people have to go to the administrative dispute over the silence of the administration. That's the kind of administrative dispute I won against the Department of Defense, but unfortunately no verdict has been carried out. We have other situations like this here, which the Ombudsman pointed out, and that's the variant, so there's a ruling of the Court of Justice, he draws attention to the relevant and nothing again to anyone. And there are signs of a crime. And a lot of people said that they were talking to the occupier, and I tried to explain to them that the occupier was not a mere lawyer in that sense, but he had a role he told us to show, that it means, to the Croatian Parliament and all relevant bodies, to many problems, but it's obvious that they're all being deaf. It is a sad fact that working conditions for the staff of the attorney general have not been resolved to this day. Let us take an example of Hungary that has, their public defender has a palace, and while our public defender can't take a disabled person normally in his office but must receive them on the road, either in the lobbys or in the halls. So let us, as a Croatian Parliament, allow the public defender to act properly, and we as Croatian advocates need to help the attorney general to maintain the office days ourselves, to take measures for the exercise of rights ourselves, because if they continue to leave after many reports of this finding unknown, rights at risk, unknown how it is solved, then we will obviously need to call on the government afterwards that it too must take its own measures, that it must punish the responsible persons who do not do their job in a way that they are paid. And in this way we will allow the rule of law to function. I will tell you only one case, related to the city of Dug Selo, that in the court proceedings, it is found to be the head, member and chieftainship, or council in Dug Selo, the Croatian party of pensioners, forged the signatures for the party's registration. And after that he participated in the election, got two seats and everything. To all of him, the other side turned to him who found that he had falsified. He also has a court ruling. No one's done anything. I also told Mr. Palaric, here present for the problem, he says it is the first case and that you will have to see what he does in such situations. In this part, the second part is that, let's say, the City of Long Village is the sum of what is obtained when the threshold is crossed and entered, the amount of cash was transferred not to the party but to the Matica pensioner. Retired mother is not a party. So there's a lot of cases like that. Let's just say, just cases, the question of renting land. We know what the situation is, it's right in the area of our second constituency. People last year, there was drought and the government normally made a decision that they would be released from paying the rent precisely because of these elementary conditions. And now, people went from place to place. Nobody knows, they won't tell them what to do and how to do it. Everyone says it's not mine, the community says it's not mine, the state administration says it's not mine, everyone says it's not mine. And the situation is very simple. That means, or the state, to the people who paid that part, should be returned or allowed to enter them this year. Therefore, but it is, inadmissible things, and people don't know what to do. Or other variations that happen. The merchants go out in that area, they buy the pigs in a way, and then they get paid to the people, at the price they offer. People have to be happy that they come in general, instead of the state reacting, and these same shoppers show up and get the incentive as if they're doing production. We get a pig without confirmation without confirmation, without anything else. Thus, such examples are a small million. Or, for example, other cases of headache that a man gets a pension for 37 years are 344 kuna and 5 limes. Or the Lamb Majure case. Mothers who lost two sons in the Homeland War. I'm three times, three, three times from this pay phone I'm warning you about. The Deputy Prime Minister said she'd handle it. He said the secretary would handle it. Mrs. Zdenka Petricevic, the esteemed Dr. Turic, we all said that, until today it is not settled. And what are you talking about? How does our rule of law work? And everyone says it'll be settled. Well, it'll be settled. The poor thing calls, we say, they tell us it'll be settled. And at the end of the day, it wasn't settled. And then the phone lines open, and people come to me and they say we sent letters, three months no one answered. So let's once, be aware of the situation where we are and let the State Administration become the State Administration, and people who won't do their jobs, let's bring regulations, first warning, second warning, so there's no room. So how many unemployed do we have in Croatia? I, therefore, once again appeal to the government to take appropriate measures and certainly support this report by the attorney general. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-30-0.u11374	Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect allegations, MPs and vice president Đurđa Adlešić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-30-0.u11375	Thank you very much, fellow Vice President. I am obliged for the public to correct the incorrect allegations of counterpart Pera Kovacevic, in no way with the intention of reducing the value of his information or worse, the results of the work they definitely have. However, it would have been good if you'd listened to me a little more carefully. I was talking about data for the Bjelovar-Bilogor County and the City, not from another constituency. In addition to the the thesis I presented, the information given in public by the employees of Mr. Klaric's Office, which was published in the newspaper yesterday. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-30-0.u11376	Thank you. In the name of the SDP Club, sir, and the injury. Here you go, Mr. Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-30-0.u11377	Article 209(2) In fact, I was just saying in this section that I was just looking back at five places in the area of Bjelovar-Bilogorska where I had regular days. So that's not an correction because that's exactly what I said. You can see it in a phonogram.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-30-0.u11378	And this article of the Rules of Procedure is not mentioned either. ... Which one? [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-30-0.u11379	Article 209(2)
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-30-0.u11380	Okay. Thank you. A phonogram will be checked, and now on behalf of the SDP Club, Mr. Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-30-0.u11381	Madam Vice President, Mr. Klaric, colleagues and colleagues. The SDP Club accepts the Ombudsman's report for last year, and in a brief presentation allow us to make some remarks and observations on the material submitted. A significant increase in the number of complaints of citizens can be interpreted differently. He could mean that there has been an increased violation of the rights of citizens, that they are in a significant number addressing the occupier for protection. The attorney general himself interprets it by giving citizens the opportunity to contact the attorney general directly, or his deputies when visiting the county. An increase in the number of complaints may be an expression of greater citizens' confidence in the work of the Office of the Public Prosecutor, namely their belief that intervention of the Ombudsman will lead to an end to the violation of the right in a specific case. Implicitly, such interpretation is allowed by the Advocate General himself when he says that better co-operation between administrative authorities and bodies with public authority and the Advocate General has contributed to the effectiveness of the Ombudsman. This fact also encourages administrative bodies as well as bodies with public authority, we encourage this good co-operation with the civil defender to continue and strengthen because only by doing so will the institution of the attorney general be able to fully seriousise the meaning of its existence. Some findings in the Ombudsman's reports are repeated year after year, from the report. So she also made the most of the complaints of the citizens, as well as the previous years, were on the slow or irregular work of the courts. There's an interrogation that the attorney general isn't really authorized to do at all. Almost half of these complaints concern the ineffectiveness of the court as cases are too long in solving. Such complaints were forwarded by the Ombudsman to the Ministry of Justice in order to take the measures to which it was authorised. And the Ministry is only authorized to request a notice from the President or the Court of Justice. The fact that the report states that, after such indirect intervention in most cases, a much greater number of cases have been achieved. First, that courts are able to process cases faster, so they don't do it without the Ministry's intervention. Secondly, that citizens cannot trust the judiciary as an independent body of government if they need someone's intervention and that of the competent ministry to resolve their file. To what extent such a sloppy work of the courts may go, the recent case of a judge from Rijeka who... slightly fined because she was so disorderly carrying out her judicial duty that the 17 criminal records she led went into oblivion. The judge even complained to the Constitutional Court for a step-by-step measure, but the Constitutional Court rejected its appeal and confirmed the DSV's decision. A man just stays amazed when he finds out about something like this. 17 crimes were left without a court order for one judge who was then punished so that 6 months she would be denied one-third of her salary. So how many perpetrators should remain unpunished 27, 37, 57 all in which a judge judges and the DSV makes a decision on the resolution of that judge. And what kind of message can citizens who pay for the work of these judges with their taxes, that as damaged in some criminal act they cannot hope for justice because the judge will already see to it that the perpetrator of this crime is not given absolutely no punishment in a way that will allow his file to sink into obsolescence. And besides, why don't we ask the question of possible corruption, in cases where some judges so clearly favor the defendant to avoid a court order by simply delaying the trial, by unannounced debate until the moment of absolute limitations. In general, the issue of justice becomes a burning issue of a society which the Ombudsman rightly warns against. Any attempt to make this critical, specifically speaking, is met with the resistance of stakeholders and with them closely connected individuals. Which immediately characterize such attempts as an attack on the independence of the judicial authority. But one is the independence of the judicial authority, one is the right of the judge to freely and without pressure evaluate evidence and in the gauges of the law imposes a barristered sentence and the other is entirely his unwitting work or even self-will. One is the independence of the judge, and the other is his work or not a work that clearly suits one side of the process. These two things must not be confused, the problem of the judiciary is not such a nature that only the government’s efforts are sufficient to resolve it. The whole society, all structures must engage to finally identify the problem as burning and to move towards its resolution. So it can't be as if in the case of the Rabbit family, those who have even confessed because the President of the Court has interpreted the law as telling the judges how the defendants can be heard without the presence of a lawyer and thus led them to make a procedural mistake. Well, after the acquittal, it can't happen that the state's attorney's office doesn't file a complaint at all without us as a society in general asking for the responsibility and then the president of the court who misread the law and then the state's attorney who isn't our elements for the appeal procedure when we know that the state's attorney has complained in much more insignificant cases. Yesterday's government's decision to materially deprive surviving members of the Rabbit family who have lost their parents and sisters, we welcome and support as a no doubt moral act but, unfortunately, that doesn't change the fact that the guilty remain unpunished. We will not, as a society that would like to get into the order of the European societies, get far if we are to tolerate judges coming naked to our dogs with their T-shirts and leaping happily at concerts by singing their songs the Ustasha Lobores. One is the independence of the judiciary and the other is the totally inappropriate behavior of judges who should be a role model of social behavior. The occupier in his report says the majority of complaints by citizens refer to the work of the courts but the ineffectiveness of their work is only the tip of the ice santa. Greater and more significant problems remain underwater and remain silent in society, we wonder how long. Another major problem that the Ombudsman states in his report is embarrassing for the Republic of Croatia. It's a violation and a restriction on the right of the owner to enter into the possession of his property. There's been a problem for many years, and it's not solved by that dynamic that needs to be solved. Returns to occupied assets are one of the conditions for joining the European Union. But that condition can't be the only reason to solve this problem. The right of ownership is guaranteed by the Constitution and the possession of property must be returned to the owners not for the sake of the European Union but for our own sake. It worries that there are still users, although in a small number who do not want to move out of other people's property, although they have largely solved their own housing issue in a way that provides them with another apartment or house. But it is even more worrying about the situation in the Gračac area, where property is destroyed when leaving and evicting users. Police in Gracac say the public defender on each individual case hastily reacted and filed criminal charges against the perpetrators, however, the perpetrators are being punished with very low almost symbolic penalties. And here we are again where we were at the beginning, the work of courts. By doing so, the courts apparently encourage such socially unacceptable behavior. When it comes to disrespecting the right to own property, a drastic case is described on page 61. Reports. For years, a man has been unsuccessfully trying to come into possession of his own house because he to whom he was assigned for temporary use not only does not want to leave but has subsequently moved other family members into it. At the same time, the owner has two underage children, one of whom is sick and needs constant and suitable accommodation and no such conditions. The Attorney General has the information that the APN has purchased 20 houses in the area of the carlovakia county, and certainly not all of them are leased, so it is possible to alternatively accommodate the temporary user but for an unknown reason it does not seem. This does not appear in such cases where the prosecutor is particularly severely injured by the right to enjoy the right of ownership peacefully. How, then, do you expect those who do not have a family problem to succeed in their right? The return of ownership and the introduction of owners into possession must be resolved because further tolerance of such a rude violation of the right is unbearable, the only thing that is acceptable in this matter is that in the next Report of the Ombudsman, it clearly states that all owners have entered into possession of their property and that this problem no longer exists in Croatia. When it comes to the care of those who have lost their right of residence, then we fully agree with the recommendation of the occupier when it says that the competent authorities should, within a certain short period of time, really provide adequate housing for those Croatian citizens who have lost their right of residence and who have really returned to the Republic of Croatia with the intention to remain there permanently, to live there. They should also be able to obtain the right to purchase the apartment even after a certain period of real residence in an apartment that is granted to them as protected tenants under conditions similar to those on which there was an apartment right. That's the kind of approach this problem was made by the government of the Racan border. We expect the new government to address the issue of former housing rights on these grounds. It is commendable that the attorney general points out that, as in earlier years, co-operation with social care centres has been exemplary, it has made it possible for the Ombudsman to say that their work in a significant number of cases helps prosecutors to exercise their respective rights in the welfare system from financial assistance to housing in social care homes. Finally, the SDP Club supports a report by the attorney general and encourages the government to try to find additional funds for the Office of the Police Attorney, which he argues is necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-30-0.u11382	Thank you very much, dear colleague. We have one correction to an incorrect quote. A colleague of Ivana Sučec-Thrakostane.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-30-0.u11383	Yes, Madam Vice President, it is a completely incorrect statement from a colleague that Thompson's songs glorify the uprising, they glorify the love of God, family, country, which not everyone has to like. and it is quite incorrect that judges would not have the right to consume all civil rights like other Croatian citizens, so they have the right to benefit and attend a concert and that human and civil rights cannot be taken away from them. Thank you. If they're judges.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-30-0.u11384	Thank you very much, dear colleague. We have one violation of the Rules of Procedure, colleague Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-30-0.u11385	Completely past the Rules of Procedure, one opinion is corrected. And a colleague's attitude about Thompson's concerts, about his songs, about whether it's the expanse of Jasenovac, the grandeur of the constitution, or whether I'm not leaving the court to the public.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-30-0.u11386	Thank you very much. I suggest we stick to the agenda. Correction of the incorrect allegations, Ms. Representative Ingrid Anticevic. You're giving up? Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, I suggest we welcome our guests to the gallery that I see very little here, except for small heads, it is the elementary school of Petar Krešimir 4. from Sibenik. Thank you very much and welcome to the Croatian Parliament. [[Applause]] Let's move on with the debate. Another club has been registered, it is the Croatian Peasant Party Club. Honorable representative of Zdenko Harami. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-30-0.u11387	Your Honor, Madam Vice President, Your Honor, Mr. Attorney General. From year to year, receiving reports from the Ombudsman, we only find that they are getting fatter and fatter, and this points to major gaps in the work of the state bodies as well as a lack of systematic solutions to make mistakes and mistakes that are being corrected year after year. In 2003, a public defender received 2389 cases, representing an increase of 53.34%. Of which, from the responsibilities of the occupier of the occupier in 1952, 679 cases remained unsolved from previous years. Viewed by counties, the majority of the population is in Sibenik-Knin County. Although it is nominally the most in the city of Zagreb. After Sibenik-Knin County follows Osijek-Baranja County with 205 items, Sisak-Moslavina 193 items, Ličko-Senjska 186 items. Which also suggests that the largest number of cases are in areas that have been under occupation, which have been affected by war activities and which are mainly areas of special state concern. 81.7%, and cases are brought to infringements of the rights which have been exercised by the administrative authorities in the exercise of their public powers, therefore because of the failure of the administrative authorities. It is obvious that citizens have recognized the position of this occupier, given the number of increases in cases from year to year. The most complaints go from difficulties in achieving pension and disability insurance rights, 29.4% of cases, then complaints of war victims 19% of cases, in which they are preceded by the right to rebuild destroyed houses. And then the property rights complaints 29.05%. In a way, we must say that the problem exceeds the possibilities of the attorney general, so it needs to be addressed by the administrative authorities of the state and the county. However, it should be pointed out that in some segments it also crosses the scope of the administrative bodies of the Croatian State, so it should be resolved in cooperation with the administrative authorities of neighbouring countries. That's where we primarily mean the injured rights of the returnee. From the total number of cases received, the difference between those relating to the jurisdiction of the Advocate General, one part of the case relates to the jurisdiction of a court which is not covered by the powers and actions of the Advocate General. We know ourselves what is the situation and what is the situation in the Croatian judiciary, and we know that the judiciary is burdened with problems, burdened with objects, the burden of slowness, burdensome in one part of incompetence, but this is the topic for another discussion, for another debate, and not today when we are discussing the report of the attorney general. It is no wonder that the Ombudsman's staff is addressed by the citizens, therefore because of the inefficient work of the courts. However, it is astounding that even after eight years of work, the Ombudsman does not have the right space to work. We think we need to work this out quickly. The occupier asks that this be resolved during 2004, or in 2005, we think it should be resolved as soon as possible. Given the complete ineffectiveness in these cases which are the subject of the actions of the civil defenders of the state administration, the Croatian Peasant Party insists that within a month the Croatian government is given a detailed view of what it means to take into account this report? We believe that the Croatian Parliament and the Croatian public should be aware of the measures to be taken by the Government or which they wish to take or to take to make sure that the report of the Ombudsman is brought to life and that what is a problem in the report of the Ombudsman is resolved. Otherwise, if that doesn't happen, and if it doesn't take it seriously and realizes what it says in this report, it turns out that the attorney general is doing... the job. We believe that the institution of the Ombudsman has fully justified its existence, as it appears as the last hope falls behind the mossiest layer of the population that is unable to provide different legal and human assistance. As for the proposed measures for the future, we absolutely accept a proposal to amend the Law on the Ombudsman. We believe that the proposal is much better in the sense that decentralisation is being carried out and that representations or representations of the Ombudsman in Vukovar, Knin, Slavonski Brod and Gospić are being established. From the second proposal. In view of this, the Croatian Peasant Party will support this report in full. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-30-0.u11388	Thank you very much, colleague. No more registered on behalf of the clubs. Before we go into an individual debate. The word was requested by the secretary of state, Mr Antun Palaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-30-0.u11389	Your Honor, Madam Vice President, Your Honor, Mr. Attorney General, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. The government has very carefully considered the 2003 report by the attorney general. Although it refers to a period she was not in office but the government has no illusions that there will be no problem in the state administration and the judiciary in the work of this government. Therefore, in detail all government resolutions have examined the report and the government has tasked the ministries and other central authorities of the state administration to take measures to remove the irregularities mentioned in the report. However, the government has seen an increased number of complaints to the state's attorney general as strengthening citizens' confidence in the institution and considers it good. We believe that a new way of working as a civil defender has also contributed to the institution being closer to the citizens and that, in cooperation with the authorities of the state administration, there will be further improvements in human rights through the functioning of all Croatian state institutions. Of course, there are many problems in the state administration and that one day they will also need to talk about the position of the state administration and the conditions that have led to such a difficult situation but we are here to take measures to increase efficiency and improve the attitude of civil servants towards our citizens and to be in order to achieve their civil rights. Of course, it should come from the legislation. Very often unclear laws, especially sublegal acts create uncertainty in solving certain issues, and then there is a particular case law waiting, and there are also wandering about deadlines, and in terms of content. We will try to make proposals for laws as best as possible in the Government's resolutions and we will try to limit and better regulate that delegated legislative delegation, so the minister's authority to regulate a particular issue with sublegal acts. In fact, we will try not to require different rules from citizens to supply various data, especially those on which the state keeps records. Of course, through further informing the state administration, many things will be avoided and we, as the Central State Administration Office, will insist that civil servants strictly apply the provisions of the Administrative Procedure Act in the first degree, so that they do not ask citizens for information on which the state keeps records, to apply all instruments of insight into documents, making notes, applying the requirements to the record and all that club representatives have said. The government will work to perfect civil servants and for this purpose has established a Centre for Professional Training now at the Central State Office. We are in the stage of equipping the centre, it will work this year where in collaboration with Croatian science, Croatian practitioners and international experts will organise courses at the start of management at the state administration and later on all those individual consultations to improve the work of the state administration. But there's something else I have to point out. I wouldn't want it to be the impression that all civil servants are bad, corrupt, and don't do their job. The vast majority of them are knowingly doing their job for small wages under heavy material conditions but there are also in the state administration people who are not there and therefore we have decided to strengthen official courts, strengthen the efficiency of their work, specify precisely the reasons for disciplinary responsibility especially for the termination of the state service, and we want to remove those instruments from the state service from those individuals who do not work as the Government and the state, and this Assembly expects them to. Here, I just wanted to say that we've carefully studied the report, that we support the work of the attorney general, that in cooperation, we will remove all observed shortcomings in the work of the state administration. We have no illusions that as of today, everything will be dramatically better. We will make efforts but to change the way we work, mentality takes time and needs to work continuously to solve these problems. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-30-0.u11390	Thank you very much, Secretary of State. We're having an individual discussion. There are dozens of MPs reported, some already give up. Two more points of the agenda are foreseen before the vote. So, as far as you're concerned, we could start by voting around 2.30 hours. I hope that was useful information. The first reported in an individual debate is a colleague of MP Ivana Sučec-Tracostanec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-30-0.u11391	Thank you, Madam President. I would refer very briefly to this report, of course, by supporting this report with a few, so to speak, the areas which from this report I think we should specifically draw, because this report, of course, I see as saying the patient insistence of a gentleman's civil defender to establish that function and his work in society, but I also see as processing individual cases that point to certain phenomena that should not leave us as advocates indifferent and should drive us to act in several directions. First of course, by voting here on the laws we insist that they be quite short and clear, adaptable to those they refer to and do not leave the possibility of different interpretations and implementations. This creates one caste in the bureaucracy of privileged legislators. This opens up the possibility of greater corruption and unfortunately they are difficult to achieve by law guaranteed rights and this report shows that the biggest problems arise in principle when certain rights are legally made possible and cannot be consumed in reality, and this is where people, using the system, cannot reach their own assets or their other immaterial rights. So it turns out that because of the increased report, I also see that the accumulation of problems that have not been dealt with in particular in the judiciary but also by strengthening people's awareness that they should fight for their rights until they have exhausted all possible means of simple and these objections can be seen as the desperate cry of people who, for various reasons, may be in a worse situation than most of the population because, according to what they're doing here, these are people of a weaker property situation, perhaps slightly lower education and possibly unresolved all those existential issues. And so it wouldn't be by saying that we, as advocates, "sit the hungry doesn't trust" I guess we should sensitize ourselves and then the public on the man. So this society, and we also need politicians not only as consumers, because there is a consumer customer at the heart of all events, but also in politics is a man at the heart of all events, including a man who has problems with the apartment, with a pension or with something else. So these desperate cries warn us that something is wrong and I just have to say that no matter what a lot of things can and better solve, I would not agree to live in a society where the situation ends up worrying. We have problems but by comparing Croatian society and legislation, even in the realisation of rights in reality, we can be proud that our country has gone the farthest if we talk about the countries of the former Yugoslavia in enabling the consumption of rights both to the apartment and to the job and everything else and to the inhabitants of the Croatian state and to those who have come here for various reasons during this time for the last 15 years. And, of course, I'm not going to create topics right now that are very painful, but I guess we all have some historical facts and times and opportunities where things happened. So the possibility of consumption and housing rights and ownership rights can be observed from different points of view. So I would just remind us all of those basic constitutional provisions that property is binding and that owners of ownership rights and their users are obliged to contribute to the general good. So the one who contributed to the general evil probably doesn't have the same right to use his property. Since Article 50(2) has been said that both entrepreneurial freedoms and ownership rights can be extremely limited by law in order to protect the interest and security of the Republic of Croatia, which, for certain reasons, was, of course, in accordance with the Constitution and took place. So today we're witnessing that we have several categories of people, and we've seen those sad shows on TV that are ahead of solving their existence in a way that some can't get into their homes and some whose homes aren't at all, they don't have the hope that soon they'll come and we can't say that they're all gone, not willingly. Because I only remember some cases that some of the people in the Croatian state with a travel order for the seminar left in '93, so they returned in '97. The one who has two houses probably doesn't move things from one house to another, but when it's in one house, there's one thing, and in other things, if those houses are of course usable. And here I think the same thing, not looking at the general need to take care of those people from Bosnia and Herzegovina who found themselves in Croatia whose property was destroyed, who can't rebuild that house there for certain reasons and here they have no right through APEN privileged house or apartment. And in that part of course there are injustices among us who are of... Cheers to Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Now if we were to principle this story of how many people in the country have solved in that former and even in this tenant law our own housing issue, and how many people from our own resources are not using this household law, I am talking about a larger population in villages in the Croatian state, so, with my money, by giving up and without credit, we would also build a house, and that principle of a certain justice or injustice as people already feel it. So, I'd just say, this part of red tape. So, bureaucracy as an organization of a formal state administration but as a mental set. Because bureaucratic thinking exists, therefore, not only in the state administration, it exists in a certain and unfortunately still private enterprise where someone thinks it is a god-given and blackmails the fact that he has obtained a job for the one who through his services has to come up with a solution in accordance with positive regulations. And here I think we should all fight hard, not knowing the problem of course. Because if you say so, everyone's bad, but you're bad and you're punishing the good, and I agree with Mr. Secretary of State, and I'm glad this government sees the problem that we should, of course, separate well from the bad, every case we have here and which is not done in time or not professionally has a name and name. Every judge has a name and name, has a number of cases. And here I think that we should insist on personal responsibility and on eliminating the personally irresponsible because we have a front of young educated people, of course, I don't think that old people are bad but eager to work for wages as they are, to use their knowledge on the welfare of people and state administration and I see it exclusively as a public service to build for certain administrative jobs. So, I think we'll be working as agents and in the field, and I'm glad the parties are working, but we're working as agents, too. I also feel the same way every Monday from 12 to 3 as a small public defender because I have the same people coming to me thinking that in state or local authorities local self-government whether it is a municipality, city or county already to exercise their rights coming to pray for help. So we can't get rid of them as agents, but we can direct them to the state bodies that will then do it for them. I'm glad to just say once again that this government as if it had already created its programme of work and when it was passing some regulations and the laws of these last days it had also kept in mind this report by the attorney general. Because if we are talking about the area and solving therefore, the dwellings of people returning to Croatia or who are already in Croatia as border guards and refugees in the status of defenders in the reform of the judiciary, in the social community, have already applied certain, so to say the remarks of this and has begun to solve these problems systematically and entirely to the welfare of those whom they are referring to. So I call on all of us once again to appreciate the work of the attorney general but also to make it easier for him to get a job with two new institutes, so the lawyers for gender equality and the attorneys for children. To dissipate his cleavage. That visiting the counties will help the general good development of the Croatian state to the benefit of its citizens by speeding up the problem in the legal bodies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-30-0.u11392	Thank you very much, dear colleague. The following came to the debate, MP Ingrid Antičevi-Marinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-30-0.u11393	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, Your Honor, Mr. Attorney General, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. It would be quite incorrect to view this book in such a way as to comment or report here, deeper, to take as a book of wages, as a book of cry, as a book of despair. It is also true that such an impression is coming out of him. However, we simply need to change the mentality that people should react not as desperate and only when they are desperate but should react to almost any violation of rights. This will also protect, or develop, the rule of law. And not only when they're the biggest injuries, the most drastic of which the state's bodies are deafened. But that's why you have to have courage and strength. And it seems to me that just as the attorney general has been acting in some way he's managed to just affirm and sensitize the citizens that they're not subjects but citizens, that they have the right to seek protection of rights even when they're not so drastic and we see it right now, but they're infringements of the right to react. And that's exactly what we see from this report. Generally it gives one and the light, why? Because the report is not only limited to findings and injuries, it is also an appeal to the institutions not only to the Government but also to our parliamentary deputies here, therefore, the legislators who are happy with this position that we are paying and complaining about the fate of the citizens are not working on other bodies, and we are forgetting perhaps at present what we can do, or what exactly who in particular, the public defender is appealing. It's here recently, I think, at the last pay phone of Mrs. Trakostaneæ, who said that the administrative government is already with all these measures she's been doing in mind already this report by the attorney general. It doesn't matter what motivated the government to face the problem of refugee returns, which the former government faced in 2000 already. All we remember is the Rehabilitation Act when it was passed. That's why I like that return without a turn, no matter what it's motivated. But if he is not honest, then he will have no real consequences, or real effects. Do we remember how we were called here by what right we'll restore those, those houses? We know what this is about and what we're talking about. The phonograms don't need to be taken out now. I remember the statement by Mr. Attorney General who was even called here once in one context why these rights are protected, and the rights of this one are more violated? When Mr. Army Attorney General came out here clearly, then everyone shut up that he was defending neither a Serb nor a Croat but a man. I'm glad that even the ruling now stands on that trail. At least verbally. But is that really what it is? Last year's budget for 2003 for the Ombudsman's office amounted to 3 million 983 745 kuna. Not enough. We can see that the needs of the attorney general are spreading. He's appealing to it, but what's going on? Let's see if the government thinks what they're saying. Or is one thought, the other works, the third spell? We have two speeches, one for Europe, one for home use because it's not even popular for our ears that aren't as sensitized as European ears to hear what it's all about, and then for 2000, the funds are shrinking, the funds for the work of the attorney general are being reduced, and what seems to me to be the most valuable step forward, and what has been a significant step made by a public defender with his associates in the past year is precisely that he was going around the field, and in this way not only has he reduced the costs of these complainants but he was closer to the citizens. And there was a structure of rights violations in certain counties which is one indicative data and very valuable. The truth is, all of Croatia is plagued by common problems. The inefficient work of the administration, however, of the judiciary here, I will only now point out that in the legal system which is also part of the state administration, there were almost no objections or objections that had not been established at all. Thus, where work is systematically and can be done and where transparent systems of responsibility are without concern. But it was not even possible to solve or achieve in that budget approved last year, which came next, for this year it fell drastically. But thanks to the generous donation of the Kingdom of Norway and the all-out assistance of the OSCE mission. What's visible from that? It is evident from this that just those counties that have suffered from war suffer and the greatest consequences. So that citizens continue to suffer the most consequences in lawlessness. That's obvious. However, what the Ombudsman is appealing to, and even many have agreed with it, with the position and role that it should be given in the light of nature, but also the limitations of its activities and opportunities, however, to the public as much as possible to report their work. But that's why funds are also needed. It's an alarming situation in the administration, but it's a really complex and complex problem. The problem here is already highlighted by Mr. Secretary of State, but the problem is our relationship versus management. Do we want a professional and independent administration, or will the change of government not change the assistants, but will any secretary or porter fear that they will lose their jobs? If they have such a psychological feeling there is no way that they feel their job in the sense that, where there is a sense of fighting, progress and where you will be able to advance in your career according to the record results. But then it will depend on the current mood of the ruling. Then such a reform of the administration really has nothing. We're witnessing something that I don't think even happened in 2000 that according to certain ministries, state officials have been removed. That's the least of the problems, that was something to expect. No, although the former government did not behave in this regard, so the ones left before were the first to disappear because they showed loyalty, or were only doing their job. It was their sin. But that's a minor problem. There's a bigger problem for officials and tenants. And I guess once everything's changed, then we'll get the Law of No, or the Transfer of Power. It's good to start somewhere, so it doesn't matter who's here and the last cleaners might do what our society or state still needs. At least so in the opinion and mood of the ruling. If we listen to these proposals and the conclusions, or we can accept them, not only to complain about the fate of these citizens covered by this report but if we want to be more effective, then it would really be necessary to listen to the Advocate General, then invite him to do so either by the Government or by individual parliamentary committees when it comes to concrete legal solutions, but especially by the Advocate General here to appeal and to amend the law which regulates his work and his powers. This is especially necessary because here we see that these outcomes would not occur. So the case has been processed, but nothing has been solved because the occupier addressed a particular ministry. The Ministry is back to another agency or some independent body, and that's where it ends. It would be an obligation, then, to find in those laws exactly the obligation to report the police report, to send a report to the attorney general. Therefore, we are all called here on the basis of this report not to complain about the fate of the citizens nor of our own destiny, or to paraphrasise the writer Krlež, who said that “toughing over his own destiny is not worth a single woman, let alone a single government.”
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-30-0.u11394	Thank you very much, colleague. We have corrections to incorrect allegations. First responder to Jura Bitunac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-30-0.u11395	counterpart Antičević said: “The government has two speeches, one for Europe, and the other for home use”. That's absolutely incorrect. This government, when it comes to the current Government of the Republic of Croatia, is trusted by Europe, and all domestic polls in government ratings and political parties, show that this government has a high rating and that the Croatian Democratic Community is also among the citizens, far the most popular party. On the other hand, she also mentioned the cleaners, which reminds me in a sense in '47. A year, 1947. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-30-0.u11396	Thank you very much, colleague. I think you're correcting opinions, though, and the colleague made an opinion. Here you go, breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-30-0.u11397	It is true, Mr. Vice President, that as my colleague, I have expressed my opinion because that is exactly what I am discussing, and for my opinion, I am not asking a court in my own party, so neither of you nor the least of the HDZ Club. But the gentleman who was just correcting me has hurt the Rules of Procedure because probably Article 209(1), that the most important thing here is to refer to this, not to the content itself, this, injury. [[/Employment: Article?]] It's something to which, uh, we're enslaved completely needlessly, but you see a constant correction of the quote, and it's an opinion. So it's something common that keeps coming from the HDZ but I believe that they might even though it's formally about hurting the Rules of Procedure that it's really not working. Because they really think it's a factual assumption as soon as someone doesn't think like they do.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-30-0.u11398	My colleague Antičević, you have injured the Rules of Procedure, you are also correcting your opinion. I am obliged to remind you that the Rules of Procedure you object to was brought in at a time when you were the majority. And if you're also allowing me to make a correction to an incorrect assumption, I'm the vice president of the vice president. All right, though. Thank you very much. He answered. You're still registered for correction? No, I don't. Here you go, pal Markovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-30-0.u11399	Well, also a formal colleague has wrongly stated that this government is doing something else, which I don't believe our government has dared because it's a protected patent of the previous government. And the proof is finally 400 amendments that are nothing more than unfulfilled wishes and unfulfilled promises to voters.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-30-0.u11400	And now if we start by interpreting the breach of the Rules of Procedure, then it looks like you've all hurt the Rules of Procedure. Because you're all giving opinions and the rules of procedure are rigid and it needs a lot of change. I think that's what I'm going to achieve by consensus. We have another correction to the incorrect assumption. A colleague of Ivana Sučec Trakoštanec.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-30-0.u11401	I didn't know you told me. Yes, I've corrected the lady myself in the sense that when we all strive for gender equality, she doesn't refer to you as sir. You're a great Mrs. Vice President, and she's in the heat of answering HDZ and having sex a mustache.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-30-0.u11402	Thank you very much. I suggest we go in the order of the applicants. The following is the registered representative, Josip Leko.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-30-0.u11403	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Attorney General. My colleagues and fellow MPs. Well, I'm gonna beat the speech of lar kur llar on human rights, and at least I'm gonna try. My opinion is that legality and human rights have no foreign colour in either Croatia or the world. That is why this report is not a report of the remaining human rights in the Republic of Croatia, and it does not address Mr. Ospodin's public defender, it is a view from the point of view of the Ombudsman's institution to the appearances and cases which are characteristic of the violation of the rights and laws of particular human rights in the Republic of Croatia during the period that we observe. So it's not an assessment of the human rights situation in the Republic of Croatia. And from that point of view, Parliament is not the court for that condition. In this regard, the Ombudsman is independent of both the Government and the Assembly of the Republic of Croatia. From the point of view of the work report, I believe that as a public defender as an institution, a huge job has been carried out by a very important social work, very indicative of the Parliament and the Croatian Government and all others who can help to injure human rights as little as possible in the Republic of Croatia and to act as legal and legal state as possible. Of course, neither in the Parliament nor in practice lately, especially when it comes to changing the law to change some people from some institutions does not show a good trend. Because this government decides on discretion and not legal conduct. That's what we talked about several times in the Parliament. It seems to me that a good finding of the Ombudsman is in the report she is talking about understanding the problem, so a very nice look at the position of the Committee on Human Rights from the last call. It says a certain positive shift in the protection of human rights has been achieved but the problems still exist. Especially in protective custody. I would ask management to assess Mr. Klaric to give us t rendos, namely, the protection of human rights will not stop or it is possible to stop simply without conflicting society. And especially if it is about companies that are in transition, such as Croatian rust. So I can't go straight to one very important thing and it's a very large or frequent violation of the pension insurance rights of health insurance and housing, housing rights. It is not possible for the Parliament, and especially for the government to reach a conclusion of an opportunity, or for me to understand it, gentlemen of the state administration, to abide by the law. So that's just the conclusion of the factory. It's like a clone's conclusion. The situation doesn't change. The report is ahead of us to detect phenomena and to have each law debated in the light of the most violation of human rights, where laws are violated. And we're satisfied that such a sensitive human area as unemployment, we don't talk, and I think the biggest violation of rights is when someone doesn't work. Croatia still has 3050 thousand unemployed and in violation of shell rights or labour rights, there is no speech or rights to work. As long as I don't think anyone's watching or controlling it. It is found that the state is inefficient, the state administration is incompetent, and in particular the labour inspection. We will see soon when it comes to the agenda or when the decision comes back when the Constitutional Court's decision begins, on Sunday's work we will see what kind of debate will be about it. What is it for us to do about the eodnost of the Croatian Parliament according to the institution of the attorney general. I think that Mr. Klaric really should say openly if this is a good relationship when for 7 years this is the 7th report asking to resolve his status from a material point of view. Is this our relationship to the institution of the attorney general? For seven years, he has been seeking to find space suitable not for the sake of the public defenders but for those who come to him to complain about the state's behaviour of state institutions, authorities, state administration courts, so those who have the great problem of conflict with the state. We're not innocent in that position as a social or mere lawyer. And in particular, the government's conclusion, please stick to the law of the gentlemen in the state administration. Well, that's not allowed on other topics to come to a conclusion. When it comes to observed matters, with the help of representatives from the European Union, I could say very cleverly by a very clever civil defender, giving the stakes that, together with representatives of the international community, have seen in the work of the institution of the Ombudsman. So it is not disputed that the attorney general knows that there are violations of citizens' rights and local self-government. He just couldn't do the job and he knew about it. That is why the need to decentralisation the institution of the occupier cannot be delayed, to get closer to the citizens, to get close to those who seek his help. It can't be concluded that that's what it's supposed to be. The Assembly is responsible for the institution of the occupier to the citizens, we cannot go beyond the fact that it is sought by the international community, by the attorney general, and that we will conclude that we accept the report. Imagine what we accept? Well, I guess we accept the work report, not the injuries. We don't accept the condition that the report itself offers. I ask you nicely on behalf of citizens who expect both the Ombudsman and the Croatian Parliament to ensure the conditions so that at least in that institution they may complain, because they must skip courts, state administration, local self-government in order to be able to show their problem and that it may become public at all, in order to become public must come to the attorney general. That's why I think the perception of especially characteristic cases requires more careful conclusions. The issue of ownership, especially in areas of special state interest, as it is called entirely wrong by my court in the new court, does not allow us to say that we accept such a situation. Not only is the constitutional category protecting ownership but it's impossible not to solve the problem of housing, housing and house ownership regardless of whose they are and what they call their owners, it's simply above the system, it's a human question. Just one more note. Does the Parliament already have any knowledge that it's a judicial and administrative apparatus? Well, we've had that knowledge for years. And who's responsible for that? Well, he's not an attorney general. He's not the attorney general responsible for that. For this reason, I appeal once again, let us not be satisfied with the conclusion that the authorities in charge of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the state administration, that in the course of its work as if the Government did not have any doubts towards the authorities of the state administration, as if the Government had no responsibility for these bodies. Well, she's a collective...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-30-0.u11404	I thank my colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-30-0.u11405	Let me just say it. That the government is a collective head of state administration. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-30-0.u11406	Honorable representative Anton Perusko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-30-0.u11407	Mr. President-in-Office of the Croatian Parliament, the esteemed Mr. Pussy Advocate, the esteemed Madam Representatives of the Croatian Government, colleagues and colleagues. It is the very fact that the Ombudsman institution has its source in Article 92. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia where the Ombudsman is defined as the authorised Croatian Parliament that protects the constitutional and legal rights of citizens against the state administration and bodies that have public authority. The constitutional springs themselves define the essence of the problem in a few different European practices where the Ombudsmans mainly protect human rights, and this is our reality, and I agree that this is not a report on the state of human rights in the Republic of Croatia, but an inventory of the problems our citizens face in relation to bureaucratic structures of the state administration, their position towards these bureaucratic structures at all levels of government, and this is indeed our big problem, that the ineffectiveness of the judiciary as a cancer of the early Croatian society is especially and I am not telling us because it is clear to us all. That, in my view, red tape, bureaucratic attitude towards citizens and other subjects, as well as a trompe and inefficient judicial system, are true problems that our citizens face on a daily basis, and unfortunately, the worst in all of this, they feel powerless. The problem is here and I agree that it was said by a colleague on the other side of this hall, and in a bureaucratic mental setting, not just bureaucratic procedures in general. According to the cases presented by the Ombudsman as processed in his quality Work Report, an objective assessment is that the ineffectiveness and ineffectiveness of the judicial system is the greatest source of human rights violations. However, if we take into account the real bad or not to use a more difficult word, the very difficult material condition of a large number of our citizens who have lost their jobs, and do not find effective protection of the judiciary in judgments related to disputes from the domain of labour, social and housing rights, then it is normal and it is no wonder that an powerless citizen, an individual, tries to protect himself in some way or achieve his or her rights, or at the very least understanding of his or her problems to seek in the institution of a public defender. In addition to the fact that the threat of labour rights in our country is pronounced, that the status of workers to which I am personally as a socialist is particularly sensitive, the report also says that this institution remains citizens are being addressed in writing because of the endangerment of their rights from working relations that are otherwise protected in court proceedings. As the attorney general is not authorized to investigate these cases, he, for his awareness of the importance of the problem, reiterates that it would be effective to establish specialised courts for working disputes, which I personally support. It is neither here nor time nor perhaps a place for me to present out of personal knowledge a number of examples of violations of labour rights where our workers are honest, working, honest and disproved in relation to the so-called. I'm undermining the so-called employers. employers, various newly-roasted tycoons left to themselves without funds and do not find, unfortunately, effective judicial protection. That colleagues and colleagues have no greater tragedy for an individual man who, as an individual or a sum of individuals, is our greatest value, and feels powerless for the reason that state structures do not protect his rights. The Ombudsman himself points out that regardless of the efforts he makes informing citizens about how he does not have the authority to investigate complaints about the work of the courts, the number of these complaints is growing from year to year. It is saddened that the Ombudsman notes that despite all the efforts taken, measures that will really increase the efficiency of the courts and improve the quality of their work have not produced results. I wonder if anyone's reading this, if anyone's hearing this, whether these reports are being considered and then ultimately what they're doing or intending to do. I will not personally be pleased that this quality, comprehensive and truly appropriate report by the Ombudsman to whom as an individual and an institution I give recognition, remains only a dead letter on paper, that we are discussing here today in this honorable House, which is very good, but that then those to whom the report refers do not withdraw conjecture and do nothing to make these cases described, or more so in the public who are dangerously bitten by Croatian society. For me, it was personally painful to find that in the year for which the report of 1648 cases completed in 784 cases or 45% of cases, there was no doubt of a violation or a threat to the right, and the number of early statements, as reported in the report, points out indeed the conclusion of a lack of confidence in the right system, which, in particular, affects me as a representative, concerns and concerns me. As far as the Istrian County is concerned, it is looking forward to finding that there are fewer problems in Istria's county with the exercise of human rights, that is, their threat, but when it comes to bureaucratic structures and ineffectiveness of the judiciary, the situation is no better than other parts of our country. I am greatly esteemed as a citizen of the country who received a positive avis from the European Commission a few days ago and thus paved the way for the start of negotiations on the accession of the European Union, an independent report by the senior human rights expert and the ombutsman institution based on the application of the Office for Democratic Institutions and Human Rights, the Organisation for European Security and Co-operation and the OSCE Mission in Croatia, submitted a report which, in my opinion, can be a guideline for the work and action of the Ombudsman. But more than that, protecting and improving the human rights of our country. The guidelines, views and conclusions suggested by the independent report of the senior human rights expert clearly determine the directions in which the Ombudsman should act. And this is primarily the protection and improvement of human rights, rather than unfortunately, the pursuit of bureaucratic structures and inefficient judiciary. In particular, this is important to me, in my view, to the role of the occupier in the protection of human and minority rights in our country, which is still difficult to recover from some unkind events. To conclude, we have a very high-quality report on the work of the important institution of the attorney general. The debate on this report itself has shown the interest of MPs in this important topic. Let me remind you, at last session of the Parliament, we had a very high quality report from the Office of State Audit, especially on the revision of conversion and privatisation. So what? I'm afraid of nothing. Life goes on. I am afraid that this does not also happen with a report by the attorney general, especially by an independent expert in the European Implementation from Europe, if he states that the reputation would be more pro-form than real because unfortunately the institutions whose Ombudsman is addressing remain silent. For this reason, I intended to silence the institutions in protest to be abstention in adopting this report, but after the Government of the Republic of Croatia has delivered its opinion in which it points out that, in connection with the report, it has tasked the competent authorities of the administration to submit, take appropriate measures, demand and seek responsibility, I will vote for the adoption of this report. I propose, and that is my belief, that this House would, by adopting a report on the work of the Ombudsman, be based on Article 122. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament should, in conclusion, oblige the Government of the Republic of Croatia to report to us, at the end of the 6 months, on the measures taken by the competent authorities regarding the Government's conclusions, regarding the institution of the Ombudsman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-30-0.u11408	Thank you. Dear Representative Niko Rebic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-30-0.u11409	Your Honor, Mr. President, the Attorney General, colleagues and colleagues. For the first time, I have the opportunity to read a report on the work of a civil defender, and although it is a general belief that it is as well as all previous reports, I admit that it impressed me with its exhaustion, transparency and order. The increased activity and the increase in the volume of work compared to the multi-annual average has been observed. It is important to note, and this is also stated in the report that there has been no reception of new employees and with almost the same material technical means, it is certain that there have been more funds and people who have been reported as being needed for the results to be much, much better. The report shows that efforts have been made to find additional funds as a donation from the Norwegian government and this has resulted in an increase in efficiency, funds have been used for the tour of counties and several units of local self-government in these counties. For the first time, counseling on the ground was more accessible to those who needed his help and that is one of the reasons why in 2003 there were record numbers of cases. Of course, the reason for the increase in trust in the work of the Ombudsman is also important, therefore, the confidence of the citizens from day to day is growing. It is evident that the vacancy attorney, and today I say, is due to this increase that the institution of the occupier is very much in need of this society. Citizens speak mostly for these reasons, it has been said several times, from all counties and abroad, from Serbia-Montenegro, Macedonia, Austria, Hungary, Germany, America, efficiency if it can be measured by what is attached is above the expectations of more than 84%. The most common complaints are from pensioners, health, social, war victims, urbanism, etc. He wouldn't list it all because others said it. There are still a number of complaints about the work of the courts, but what causes me special attention is complaints about violations of the rights of government and public officials. This is a very interesting area, and perhaps the best testimony about time and power after the January 3rd change. As an example, we will be served with a complaint from a police officer listed in the lawyer's report. The gentleman complained that he had high professional equipment and that he had been moved from one job to another 5 times from September 2001 to February 2003. Even an attorney leaves the possibility that excessive transfers are the result of shagging. It is a time when even the former prime minister said that one parliamentary party was under investigation, it was a time when the interior ministry reduced the number of employees, and the defence ministry was also reducing the number of soldiers by adapting to NATO standards. You can imagine who paid the highest price there, whose rights were threatened and who was usually out of a job. The highest price was paid, as usually happens to be the greatest patriot, the first Croatian directors and volunteers of the Homeland War. In fact, all those who belonged to another political option. They were declared unspective, and they brought similar places to them. If we add a third minister to these, the Minister of Defence, with his review of disability and translation, and my opinion is that the translation and chicanization of disabled people would continue today that Croatian citizens did not change his authority by their own free will. Why will these people of the former authorities remain in the memory of the citizens of Croatia? After the strike of police officers in Mark's Square, the longest strike in Croatia's recent history, according to the prosthetics returned, but by something else, their systematic demeanors and insults by defenders and disabled have destroyed the pride of the Croatian defender and disabled Homeland War. So today we have hundreds of people who have not reported to the Ombudsman but to the new defence minister, expecting to receive them, expecting the new authorities to correct the injustices that the former government has done to them. TO RETURN the case of a police officer from the beginning of the story, the Public Attorney in his Report says the case has not been resolved, the Ombudsman has not been informed of the measures taken in connection with his recommendation. When rights and freedoms are violated to this extent it's always bad than when the ministries do it to their citizens, then it's more than bad. There is no lawyer who can help but can and can point out that neither the media nor the Helsinki Committees, nor Amnesty International, nor many human rights organizations, have all been silent, when defenders and disabled persons at such a time should no longer be allowed to repeat themselves. I think it would be time to get the right resources and to really expand the number of employees so that if they can't solve problems and it's obvious that he doesn't have the mechanisms to solve the problems I think that as a society, it would allow working conditions and the number of people to protect the rights of citizens who are very often threatened. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-30-0.u11410	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect quote by a respected representative of Sima Lucin. Correction of an incorrect quote goes before replication.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-30-0.u11411	Since I've had a little time and it's Friday and two days it's gonna take me two days to correct all the incorrect allegations I'm gonna stick to just the most important ones. It is incorrect that the Ministry of Interior fired patriots and police officers by some criteria that Mr. Rebic listed there. After all, it is only a few people, and it might be good for Mr. Rebic to ask the minister of his party why the people he offered the job to return to the ministry did not accept the job, so he may be more clear about what it is. And most importantly, all those people who were returned to work now, who were unscheduled and out of work, lost their judgments.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-30-0.u11412	Thank you very much, dear colleague. Time's up. Replica, a respected representative, Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-30-0.u11413	The MP says by which we will remember the former authorities, then mentions fired officers, then defenders who have been treated inhumanely, however, so that our memory of which I do not agree at all, that our memory would be a complete opposition and today's government would interfere with even European standards, co-operation with the Hague Court, rebuilding the homes of refugees, returning their property to what is now being advocated. At least verbally.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-30-0.u11414	Replicate response, Honored Representative Niko Rebic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-30-0.u11415	Well, I think all this stuff that the gentlemen are saying is that I don't think it's just standing there. This can all be checked...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-30-0.u11416	You have a colleague Rebić's reply to the replica of his colleague Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-30-0.u11417	So I'm saying all the things that the former government did I painted, its experience of what I said and the transfer of responsibility before those or actually the most telling why these officers were strikers, that strike was mostly because they didn't know the criteria that the former minister and his ministry had brought.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-30-0.u11418	A fellow Sima Luchin, a violation of the Rules of Procedure, let's see.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-30-0.u11419	This Regulation shall enter Item 1st, 2nd and 3rd, I'm surprised that someone who doesn't know what a strike is can sit in the Croatian Assembly and strike those who work.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-30-0.u11420	Thank you, dear colleague, this is not about any injury to the Rules of Procedure, please, the representative has responded to a replica that he has the right to do. You can't, because you're going to hurt the Rules of Procedure I know, colleague Ingrid, and don't put me in a situation I don't need. Here we go. Dear Representative Zlatko Kramarić, he is gone, so he loses his right to say a word. Dear Representative Ivica Pancic, please be my guest.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-30-0.u11421	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Attorney General. In front of us is a report by the Public Prosecutor for 2003, which has already been given by colleagues in the opening performances by the basic evaluations they essentially agree with. This also shows the importance of the work of the Ombudsman in order to respect the legality and improvement of the work of state institutions. Because one of the problems that today exists in the Republic of Croatia is the functioning of the rule of law. The institutions must be in the service of citizens, and I think it must be fully followed by the law. However, overload and ignorance of matter are one of the reasons why they make it impossible to carry out effectively, correctly and professionally in the state administration as indicated in this report. It will take a lot of hard and resources for the state administration to be at the level of the needs of its citizens. It must also not forget the social situation of a part of the population of Croatia that is invisible and which forces them to stand in front of the counters or doors of the Croatian administration. As a result, even in the coming years, the number of citizens who will address the Ombudsman will not change significantly, i.e. with better personnel teaming and greater openness of the Ombudsman, the number of citizens who will address this institution will not be reduced but will increase on the contrary. This is how the report indicated the case in the previous year. The decision last called on the Assembly to propose an increase in the funding for the work of the Ombudsman's staff due to the lack of teamwork already said, i.e. the need for a greater number of officials as assumptions for the better work of this institution. Unfortunately, this year's budget did not happen, which is why I suppose some mistakes have also occurred. I will talk about the section on the rights of Croatian defenders, or the exercise of those rights or errors that have taken place. There have been certain misunderstandings between the Croatian Ministry of Defence of the Homeland War in the past term and the occupancy of the ombud should be recognised. At least on my side they didn't have a political audible with the desire to manipulate Croatian defenders, which was quite popular and today some of these habits can't get away with it. Here it seems to me, five minutes ago, we had a chance to listen to it. However, simply some remarks by the Advocate General could not be accepted because they were mere politicisation. Unfortunately, Mr. Attorney General and in this report, our disagreement could not have been forgotten and even written in this report. I think that a job can be done in a good way if it's done objectively and based on facts. The specific figures best objectively object to the state of things or at least so should be, but in the Report, the figures are fairly flexiblely interpreted. So on page 91, I quote: "In 2003, relatively few complaints were received 58, underlining relatively little complaints from Croatian defenders and members of their families. In most cases, complaints referred to serious difficulties in obtaining the status of Croatian defender, the duration of participation in the Homeland War, the determination of the degree of disability, you are housing care" at the end of the quote. So it continues, again, to quote "if only the number of complaints received were tried on the work of the ministry then, the picture would be obtained that the said ministry was up-to-date, effective, and made legal decisions", the end of the quote. So even though the figures are different, and here the entire report is related to the numerical indicators, the attorney general knows that's not the case. He knows that the ministry continues to quote again "instructive and stubborn and wrong approaches", the end of the quote, in connection with the rulings of the administrative court. Last year's report to remind me was particularly apostrophe of the Croatian Ministry of Defence from the Homeland War on the basis of a verdict by the administrative court, where the verdict was delayed for a month. That's why a fam was created, so that the administrative court's verdicts are not respected. and the explanation of the amendment of the Law on the Rights of Croatian Defences voted about a month or two ago in the translation section was based on one single ruling of the Administrative Court. My question is, is there an institution that never made the wrong decision or solution? Probably not. I suppose the Office of the Public Attorney's Office, because there aren't enough professional staff, which is one reason that can be wrong, and that's normal. But that's not why I'm gonna say that the Attorney General's Office is unprofessional and stubbornly insists on some of the wrong grades. I won't, because I'm a responsible person. But I will say that the manipulation of Croatian defenders is not worth it, especially not today. With full responsibility, I can also say thanks to the remarks made by the Ombudsman, the situation at the Ministry of Croatian Defence at the end of 2003 was incomparably better than 4 years ago. I don't know how it's gonna go. Because in the former ministry, no one has ever given orders to officials or doctors on medical committees to handle cases according to someone's wishes, as it seems today. I don't know if it will be recorded in the next report by the attorney general, because that way at least a few hundred thousand Croatian defenders will be damaged at the beginning. We'll see, but I honestly doubt it. The system of care for Croatian defenders is a complex system, although it looks simple, and it is simple if we want to run a policy instead of implementing the law. Thus, the report further states "in the process of determining the status of Croatian defenders other than the national law must be applied from the Geneva Convention on the improvement of the fate of war victims, and the Hague Regulation. These international regulations clearly and doubtless determine who is considered a member of the armed forces," a finished quote. I remind you now, that the applicable Law of the Rights of Croatian Defence in this section is prescribed from the 1997 law, and it is again based on the 1992 Law on the Protection of Military and Civil Victims of War. So a legal provision, considered a member of the armed forces, was passed at the time of the previous HDZ government. Since I have consulted from the Geneva Convention and The Hague, let's say the 1880 Supplemental Protocol of the Geneva Convention of 12 August 1949 on the Protection of Victims of International Armed Conflicts, and even the 1880 Oxford Manual, on which this protocol is based and all the laws that are easy to find, and here are the copies, I can say that our laws are in full agreement with these conventions during this and the previous authorities. However, if there is something that needs to be changed, let us change. Let's include this in the new law that this government allegedly has already written. In any case, because of these observations, I believe that this government is the HDZ government, should accept the position and formerly calls on the Assembly to increase the resources for the work of the Ombudsman in order to carry out this important task more effectively and professionally, all in order to strengthen the rule of law in Croatia and better protect the rights of citizens, including the rights of Croatian defenders. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-30-0.u11422	Thank you. And a respected representative of Slaven Letica.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-30-0.u11423	Dear Mr. Shakespeare, colleagues and colleagues. I carefully observed the esteemed occupier, Antu Klaric, all the time I had the impression that he was in a bad mood, sad in some way depressed, but then after Mr. Rebić's intervention I saw him live, he cited one of the many examples of this, he cited an example of a police officer who was five times moved to different jobs and said that even a public defender allowed it to be some kind of discrimination. I think it's a duty because of the tremendous effort that has been put into these 231 pages of reports to say something about the team, and for one reason, perhaps for you and a bizarre reason, the institution of the occupier has been designed by the esteemed president of our Parliament Vladimir Seks, and suggested that he be called an ombudsman, and then the late president and I came up with the idea of making it sound Croatian, so we suggested that he be called a public defender. The Canadian report, the rapporteur who is finally listed here, his report by John Hacker, suggests not understanding the good sense of Croatian language that it should be called the public defender for human rights. With the addition that was praised here by my colleague Lek, I would point to a paradox of this report. Namely, the permanent budgetary, spatial, humane and every other not discrimination, but the demeaning of the institution of the occupier in some way denied him self-awareness to conclude this report with governmental proposals and conclusions, so he calls for the authority of the Canadian professor, thinking that this would affect this government more, it is very instructive for this Parliament. It turns out that the recommendations that come from somewhere outside for us are serious recommendations. In that sense, this account can be read in many ways. I think one way to read is almost romantic. Before the war, the HSS had tasked Rudolf Bicanic with writing a report on the Croatian people's lives. Bicanic visited all of Croatia, was at Luka Bebić's, he was not born and wrote a beautiful book on the subject. This can be read as a report of a part of the Croatian people living, who no longer needs to go to the meeting, as he writes to the occupier. But the people who write here to the attorney general justify the concept we chose, the regiment. It's people, workers, peasants, poor people, unemployed, officers who are discriminated against. Other powerful people, people who are more privileged in society, address other numerous human rights institutions. And therefore, if you want to be purely social or structurally or from the analysis of the social power, you will see that in Croatia there are let's say four major human rights institutions. Some of these institutions have turned this into a profession, one of these institutions that has the largest media presence, which is 5.6 times the media presence of Mr. Klaric and his associates is the Croatian Helsinki Committee for Human Rights. His strength also stems from the circumstances that he deals with the rights of people who are celibacy, who are famous if we exclude minorities. In addition, he expresses political views on the state of democracy, human rights, the laws on television that the minister should change or call to order, and he himself once had experience because he testified against our fellow students who ended up in prisons. So it's an institution. The other institution is this institution, and we must be concerned about the need to strengthen this institution, strengthen spatially, financially so that we no longer stand in a position for Norwegians who are otherwise very dear and willing to help us from this tradition to be forced by the Ombudsman to help us technologically and financially. So we must make sure that this institution is what it must be, an institution that intercedes between citizens and civil society and the state. It should never happen in this House again if, when on the agenda, the report of the occupier of the entire government is not here. There must be government as at the current morning because this report speaks of weaknesses, injustices, surfaces, incompetences, corruption of the state administration in the broadest sense. The judicial authority for which the institution is not at all competent has been excluded. In addition to these two institutions, there is certainly the Office for Human Rights of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and it needs to be precise in the innovations of the Law on the Ombudsman to take advantage of this precious experience that we have since 1992 and since Mr Klaric's appointment that the next report may refer to this whole period and be the basis for the law's innovation. There is a Centre for Human Rights which is an institutional follower of the office of the United Nations High Representative for Human Rights. All these institutions are favourites of the West, favourites of foreign foundations, favorites of the Croatian mostly left-wing liberal media, and therefore the public defender is mostly a man as one of us. Anyone sitting in this hall is sort of a public defender. The mere PDS tip-off service of each and every one of us today is closing in, complaining, and then we're calling from the cardinals and bishops to the MPs, all talking to us as some of their kind of those in whom they have some hope. And in that sense, I believe that this should be used as a basis, so to praise the great effort, to point to one of the dangers that I pointed out yesterday, which is the fragmentation of the civil defense. We already have a civil defender or attorney for children, so we'll have no idea of gender equality, so we'll have older people going. The recommendations made by you in the end recommend one solution which is certainly both more rational and appropriate to the Simeon system, or to the Ombudsman, not to spread it than to settle it with a single Law on the Ombudsman who, as special organisational units and services, would have children, patients, people with disabilities, police officers, old and new powers being persecuted, etc. And to conclude with one optimistic hope, that maybe we should sort of agree that in these discussions, you no longer share yourself, they, who was in power and what laws he passed rather than just concentrate on the metrics and here the metric is quite well prepared. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-30-0.u11424	I'd like to thank the esteemed representative of the Flight. Does Mr. Ante Klaric want to give a final review? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-30-0.u11425	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament! I thank you for the rich, versatile debate on this report and I think that it is a good contribution in general to the honest analysis of the situation in our country because it is in some way a reflection of a certain state which warns that we have inherited a trom, inefficient and partially unethical and corrupt administration that is unable to meet the service of all the needs of its citizens. And not only that, which is not even partially aware that citizens are not things but people and that each of those objects is human and not just an administrative act. In that sense, I would warn of those honest people who work in the state administration, and I think they're the majority. However, I would like to say that in this short life of our young country in which we have experienced everything from war to change of legal, economic, social and whole system of values, it was necessary to establish both the formation of the Croatian state, the legal system in a way that ensued, a huge number of laws adopted changes and additions, that we were normably over-normised and that all these people had to adapt in a short time to something that required really great efforts, a high level of expertise, and ultimately in procedures and a certain kind of technology. We don't really have it, but I can say with all this together that this report, like my reports so far, is not a part of the creation of defetism and indifference. On the contrary, they should give us optimism that we are ready through these indicators to solve our civil problems in human affairs as well as in the functioning of the system of state administration and government so that the whole system will slowly adapt to the needs of our citizens, so in a democratic atmosphere where it really needs to be said in political language to create a new system of values and a new system of relations. So I wouldn't say that we don't actually have anything, that we're a helpless institution. I can tell you that we have compared, combined our results with some of the institutions of democratic countries that have their own traditions and that 46% of the solved cases have been positive in our response but we do not publish it. When a citizen doesn't call us, it means he's happy. When an institution where intervention has been carried out informs us that it has carried out certain recommendations, the citizen does not report it, it does not mean that his case has not been solved, but we do not have the instruments for each case to be submitted by the citizens and the report. I would like to say that it has been suggested from our institution for years that we must say poverty is wider in the Croatian state, poverty in this sense that citizens are not all able to bear the costs of various services, where price and blackmail have been created instead of helping citizens. Thus, in the area of legal assistance, we proposed to citizens that legal assistance services be organised in major centres and counties. Then we suggested that they be established in larger and smaller places civil councils or peace councils. This is not the legacy of the socialist system, it has all the western mostly democratic countries to disburse the judicial system, in order to help educated people of different profiles and professions to solve their everyday civil problems in these councils. No one's ever responded to that. And that's why we have a situation today for citizens to address the Office of the Public Attorney because it's the only institution where they're going to get legal advice but no one's going to ask him for it. It is a very serious question, it is a question of the standard of spiritual and material life of a Croatian man. That the Croatian state, local government and the state, not only enables him to provide him with legal assistance. Because today a poor citizen doesn't have the money to get into a law firm, there's no money to get into a private infirmary, there's no money to raise a bank loan that will guarantee that he won't throw that loan into debt slavery, etc. These categories of citizens, that category of citizens in Croatia, gentlemen wanted to or did not want to expand. But our warnings are also in continuity. However, these days at the Office of the Public Attorney and my person is a representative of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Pupovac, in the press, said that Klaric seriously violates human rights and that the institution is not in the function of protecting human rights or a democratic institution in the Croatian state. Therefore, the question arises why is this removed from the context of my report? When the Croatian state was in a very significant mental state of aggression, assault, breaking, killing, destruction, when it ruled over a part of the atmosphere of collective responsibility of the people, the public defender rose up to defend every Croatian Serb who did not sin in the laws of the Croatian state and Croatian homeland. That's when Mr. Pupovac didn't hear or heard himself very little, and I know why. And I will now quote that the Croatian public knows what is in detail in this report, which has been declared where the Croatian Parliament's institution has been declared to seriously violate human rights and from this quote: "According to the position of the civil defender, former tenants of residential law who left the Republic of Croatia for no good reason, for example. In order to join the enemy forces or not to participate in the defence of the Republic of Croatia, therefore, who left the Republic of Croatia voluntarily moving, referring to all of their movable assets, taking all of their movable assets, would not have the right to any form of material satisfaction because they did not appear in the Croatian State until today. And when the political question of material satisfaction was raised, those who did not want the Croatian state, who went to the tanks to return to Croatia, would now want to go back to each housing unit for 50,000 euros and send these money to the expense of the Croatian budget and Croatian citizens to another country. Gentlemen but also this Office has warned that the competent authorities, in my opinion, have to provide adequate housing for those Croatian citizens who have lost their right of residence and who have really returned to the Republic of Croatia with the intention of staying there permanently and living and that Croatia is their commitment, their future. They should also be able to, after a certain period of real residence in an apartment that is not rented as protected tenants, buy that apartment under conditions similar to those on which housing rights existed. We had cases when Yugoslav officers left with the Yugoslav army and left their family to think and to feel that we had defended this family as a Croatian family, and that we had made a lot of success in protecting these people. But those who really went away in a way that they moved out of their apartments, moved their things, put themselves in the service of aggressors in the Croatian state, where do we have the moral or moral right to seek material satisfaction for them? What's the moral dimension? And we took care of the others. We know that some have been driven, that some have escaped, that some of the fears have gone away, we don't put these citizens in this category. But these gentlemen would really not be a moral right on behalf of the citizens of the Croatian state to be given material satisfaction and to stay with it. Therefore, we are for this, not the democratic institution of the Croatian Parliament, nor will you present us in the world as a contribution to these processes that are happening. I would really like to say something about the issue of the possibility of a space in which the Ombudsman is working. It is not a question of the Croatian government, gentlemen, it is a question of the Croatian Parliament. We are the institution of the Croatian Parliament, the authority of the Croatian Parliament, the Croatian Parliament needs us, not to me, not to the institution, but to provide the citizens with a space where citizens can serve on their needs. Without this statistics, 20, 30 citizens appear to us every day with various questions and requests that are not recorded. In our office, about 10% of people get frustrated, people who are mentally ill, people who have knocked on all doors and who no one will accept. We are the only constitutional institution in Croatia in which every citizen who comes will be admitted immediately. Therefore, in this regard we ask you to develop this institution whether I will be at the head of it in the future or not because I am running out of mandate, but time has shown that this institution needs Croatian people as daily bread. And as far as I'm concerned, I'd say working with the media isn't good. No thanks to the Office of the Public Prosecutors, I welcome the Croatian Radio on which I have one show every month on Tuesdays, but when I told one editor of Croatian Television a few months ago and agreed that some significant violations of human and civil rights should be carried out in means such as television. To educate the population, to create a democratic atmosphere, to culture the relations of political culture, human, civil, whatever you want. And when that case happened then he told me the following: it's not the time, it's the election now. So how am I supposed to work with the media especially of this kind? If there is a sensation then journalists ask, ask from their newsrooms a phone that does not belong to the elemental, professional and civic decency instead of coming to my office, so when they get a brief notice out of courtesy then do not publish it in such a way in the newspaper. I thank all NGOs, those unknown people who care for the fate of individuals, who visit sick people, homeless people. I thank all those who, in the name of various institutions, have also helped our Office. But I must repeat that we are not opposition to the institutions of the state administration. We should actually be a bond between citizens and the state administration using each other to create an atmosphere of citizens' trust in the Croatian state institutions in the administration. I can say that in this time we've made visible progress, but I'm not satisfied with my condition. However, the fact is that it is a short time in which we want to step far beyond our possibilities, and our only enemy is the one who is called, that it is normative from the real in the great expanse and that our wishes are far from our possibilities. Finally, I propose that on behalf of the citizens of the Croatian state who need help, help these citizens through a new, new business space and through the means to communicate with citizens on the ground. I suggest you accept my report and thank you very much for your patience.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-30-0.u11426	Correction of the incorrect allegation by the respected representative Milorad Pupovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-30-0.u11427	Mr. President, Your Honor, Mr. Attorney General, colleagues and colleagues. In the debate on human rights, of course, it's not my first time being apostrophe since 1991, and it's not my first time out of this House and in the House I'm talking about it. But I don't know if I said that the public defender is a non-democratic institution of the Croatian Parliament. But I do know that the report says that if you leave without a valid reason to join, for example to join the enemy forces or not to participate in the defence of the Republic of Croatia. Who will evaluate whether someone has left because of not participating in the defense of the Republic of Croatia or for some other reason that he may consider justified? That's my question.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-30-0.u11428	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-30-0.u11429	For this Parliament, for the vacancy attorney and for the public.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-30-0.u11430	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. A report by the attorney general for 2003. Comrade Kovačević, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-30-0.u11432	On behalf of the HSP Club, we are looking for a break of 15 minutes as we have information that the requests for the defence of General Markac and Cermak have been denied, so I would ask the President, or the President or any of the members of the Government, because we know that we have postponed the debate precisely because of this fact and now we have this information that has surprised us because the minister herself has promised that everything will be fine. We want a 15-minute break for someone from the government to come to us and tell us whether the minister, the vice president, the president, but one of the government's authorised representatives related to everything that's been going on in the meantime.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-30-0.u11433	My colleague, I would suggest, suggest, I'll give you a break right away and I suggest we just finish this short vote that still has a few points. Let's finish the vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-30-0.u11434	You're not going to close the session then, are you?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-30-0.u11435	No, I don't.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-30-0.u11436	All right, then.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-30-0.u11437	Let's just finish the vote and then we'll do it. We're going to the 2003 Attorney General's Office Report. My colleagues, please, come on. I'm voting on the next conclusion. A report on the work of the Advocate General for 2003 is hereby adopted. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Fellow Head, please follow the debate. Yeah. [[The intruders don't understand.]] Yeah. Restraint. Okay. I find that with 91 votes in favour, one against and two abstentions, the proposed conclusion has been reached. In accordance with the proposal for a Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities, I am voting on the following conclusions: 1. In accordance with the arguments and conclusions proposed by the Ombudsman, it is necessary to provide adequate space for the work of the Ombudsman, as well as additional financial resources in the 2005 budget, which would be used for the purpose of the work of the Ombudsman on the ground, with a view to facilitating the communication and access of the assistance given to them by the Ombudsman. It is proposed that the Government of the Republic of Croatia consider these requests by the Ombudsman and therefore propose appropriate solutions. 2. It is assessed that the amendments and additions of the Law on the Ombudsman should be made, having regard to the experience of its 12-year application and the proposals of the Advocate General and the recommendations of independent experts presented in the report under consideration. 3. Opinions, objections and proposals submitted in the debate shall report as well as observations, proposals and recommendations made by the Ombudsman in the report shall be submitted to the Government of the Republic of Croatia in order to take measures to make the work of the competent authorities and bodies with public authority more effective. Who's in charge of these conclusions? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? It is determined that with 91 votes for and 2 abstentions these conclusions have been adopted. These conclusions also cover the conclusions proposed by the War Veterans Committee, so there is no need to vote on them. The next item is: - Proposal for a decision on the participation of members of the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia in the India and Pakistan peace mission. The motion for a decision is the Government. You received the motion for an act at the session. In making this decision, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the Law shall apply, and the debate shall be carried out by the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security, the report you received at the sitting. Does the Prime Minister's representative, Secretary of State Gordan Bakota, Ministry of Foreign Affairs, want to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-30-0.u11439	Your Honor, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the House of Representatives and MPs. Before you is the proposal for a decision on the participation of members of the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia in the UNMOGIP peacekeeping mission. UNMOGIP was established by Security Council Resolution 307 of 21 December 1971. Armed Forces members of the Republic of Croatia have been participating in the mission since August 2002. Members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia take part in this mission on the basis of a decision by the Croatian Parliament on 31 July 2002, which sent two members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia to the peacekeeping mission as military observers. It was subsequently submitted to the UN requesting an increase in the number of participants and sent to 5 members of the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia in line with the conclusion of the Croatian Parliament of 28 May 2003. In May 2004, a regular rotation of two members of the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia should be carried out on the basis of an official call from the UN Peace Operation Department. During the year, an increase in the number of members of the mission for two other members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia is also foreseen. That increase is planned due to the UN Peace Operations Department's addressed inquiry into the possibility of nominating members of the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia as commander and deputy commander of this mission. I would like to stress that the implementation of this decision will take place on the basis of the UN and the State budget of the Republic of Croatia under the heading of the Ministry of Defence as part of the annual activity plan. Dear ladies and gentlemen, the UN peacekeeping mission in the disputed Kashmir area between India and Pakistan from the point of view of the foreign-political importance and dimensions that both countries possess is certainly one of the most demanding missions of the United Nations. The dispute between India and Pakistan over state status arose shortly after India gained independence and division in 1947. In June 1949, India and Pakistan signed an agreement in Karachi establishing a line of demarcation. The two sides have shown disagreement over this issue and the UN mission continues with the Security Council decision, and since there has been no change in the mission and continues and continues with... The strict surveillance of the 1971 demarcation line and reporting to the UN Secretary-General on her injury. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] The mission consists of 45 military observers from the following countries: Belgium, Chile, Denmark, Finland, Croatia, Italy, the Republic of Korea, Sweden and Uruguay. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to stress that participation in international peace operations is in line with the strategic commitment of the Republic of Croatia, which places our country among the responsible members of the international community who are ready to take over their part of the burden of general security. With its active participation in peacekeeping operations, the Republic of Croatia contributes significantly to and efforts aimed at running for a non-permanent member of the United Nations Security Council, in particular to achieving its strategic objectives for joining the European Union and NATO. The Republic of Croatia has been participating in UN peacekeeping missions since September 1999, with three headquarters officers in Liberia, five military observers in India and Pakistan, ten military observers in Sierra Leone, seven military observers in Ethiopia and Eritrea, and two military observers in the Western Sahara. Participation in peacekeeping missions is listed in the national security strategy of the Republic of Croatia and the defence strategy as one of the ways in which Croatia contributes to peace and security in the world and one of the partner objectives of the Republic of Croatia agreed with NATO as part of the implementation of the NATO accession process through the entry into the membership Action Plan. Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia participate in a peace mission in India and Pakistan on the basis of a decision by the Croatian Parliament on 31 July 2002. A subsequent UN request was submitted and five members were sent in accordance with the 2003 Decision. In the end, I would like to stress the honourable MPs and advocates that our officers are doing a great job on this peace mission and do not express their regret or dissatisfaction. They are satisfied with the conditions and positions so that, thank you and the decision is here before you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-30-0.u11440	Thank you. Does the rapporteur of the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security want it? Yeah. President, the esteemed representative, Ivan Jarnjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-30-0.u11441	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. The Committee on Internal Policy and National Security at the 12th session held on 30 April 2004 discussed a proposal on the participation of members of the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia in the UNMOGIP India Peace Mission and Pakistan, submitted to the President of the European Parliament by the Government of the Republic of Croatia in an act of 29 April 2004. In the opening statement that you have now heard here, that I do not read it again, the Committee supported the stated position of the Government of Croatia. Following the discussion, the Committee assessed that the continuation of the participation and departure of members of the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia in a peacekeeping mission in India and Pakistan was of interest to the Republic of Croatia and unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament the adoption of a Decision on the participation of members of the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia in the UNMOGIP India and Pakistan in the text proposed by the motion for a decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-30-0.u11442	I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the IDS Club, Honorable Representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-30-0.u11443	Dear Mr. President, distinguished gentlemen, as we have just heard from the State Secretary of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Republic of Croatia today means it has members of the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia in the next pension missions. And that's three headquarters officers in Liberia, five military observers in India and Pakistan, now word for them, ten military observers in Sierra Leone, seven military observers in Ethiopia and Eritrea, and two military observers in the Western Sahara. It is likely that 50 participants or NATO actions in Afghanistan should be added to that number so that we can count on around 80 Croatian soldiers participating in various armed missions throughout this planet at this time. The second thing I want to say is IDS is absolute.Usal for this decision, why, first of all, we can be aware of the fact that Croatia was helped when it was most needed in the period 92 to 95 when there was a brutal war on this space and when the printouts of members of pension missions tried to help the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia. Or the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. I also dare say that Croatia has been helped by the fact that under the allegations of international action the war ended on the Bi H platform. And where today, like those war years, thousands and thousands of international soldiers were engaged. It is clear what we all know is a tragedy I would say about the institutions of the United Nations, what happened before their eyes in Srebrenica, and so on. However, regardless of all that these international troops were not present in these war zones, it would be much more brutal than the wasp. With that very moment in mind, it seems to me that this decision will be indisputable for all-members. But in front of the IDS club, I want to take advantage of the opportunity and, in fact, and that's why I've come to the meeting in Istanbul in a way that has recently come to NATO's opinion. Where they suggest that the government of the Republic of Croatia or the Assembly of the Republic of Croatia should change the way troops are sent out of the country where it proposes that these decisions are not adopted in the future by a two-thirds majority, as the Republic of Croatia's constitution prescribes, but rather by the government in its sittings. I believe that this will not happen, I believe that the constitution of the Republic of Croatia will not change in that part, because it would be an unnecessary destruction of the civilization principles that we have chosen. This is also one chance to say that the war in Iraq is unfairly harmful for international but also for American security. And that Croatia certainly shouldn't be involved in this in the future unlike the presence of Afghanistan's protor where intervention occurred in response to the aggression that hit the United States two or three years ago. That is, if the need to change a terrorist regime that has been plagued by a tragedy in the United States and caused it. This decision certainly carries a certain amount of erosion, for those five or possibly seven Croatian young men and soldiers. But I think the Parliament has to agree to that. The more involved or better said to oversee the pensions of these events at the border between India and Pakistan, the more a whole series of Western European states are involved. Or a member of the United Nations starts with Belgium. Chile of Italy Denmark and not to list all others. While as also well known, these young men receive compensation from the United Nations for 128 thousand kuna a year. While the rustling Croatian visa you provide them with 24 thousand kuna. In one word, we are not against this decision, however, we hold that the Republic of Croatia must participate in ensuring under quotes of peace where it is necessary, because some others under the allegations of the military or members of some peacekeeping missions have helped in their own time, when it was most needed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-30-0.u11444	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HSPa Club, Mr. Representative Tonci Tadic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-30-0.u11445	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. On behalf of the HSP Club, I am in the first place expressing my dissatisfaction with such a speedy procedure as to send members of the Croatian army on a mission to India and Pakistan. It's a high-risk mission, it's an area of constant conflict between India and Pakistan or the conflict of Indian troops with Pakistani militants. And if we refer our soldiers to these areas of high risk, then the debate should be detailed, comprehensive, taking care of their safety in the first order. We find it really strange that it happened for a little while, and that the Committee on National Security has held a debate on this document on this decision without any input material. So what's the rush, gentlemen? If this really is the strategic interest of Croatia to have our army there, then it could be debated without rush. And not to discuss now the final day of Parliament knowing that our soldiers have been going there for a week. So these are things that are simply not to be discussed in the Croatian Parliament. I repeat that crucial question again. What Croatian strategic interest that our army is there. We in HSP don't see any interest in our army being there. In particular, I repeat the mission of high risk. Conflicts in the area of Kashmir, or Djamo and Kashmir, as the Indians call it, have its roots in 1947 and 48, respectively, when the Indian states surrendered to be in Pakistan or India. Some of them held a referendum somewhere that was decided by Maharajah. And there was no intervening at that time but the mining beginnings of the Indian and Pakistani armies. In Kashmir, exactly what happened was that the neighboring maharajah, the Islamic revolutions directed his troops to take over the area that caused the war on 48th and further wars. So all the conflicts of India and Pakistan were about Kashmir. So it's about a highly sensitive area, especially the sensitive after the war in Afghanistan after the appearance of AlQuaida after the information they're saying AlQuaida there is also funding its own militants and after the wave of violence that takes place annually towards the Hindu population. In Djam and Kashmir, in fact, there is no border between these two nations, there is only a line of separation. Who somehow manage to get the Watchers of the United Nations going. With the occasional exchange of artillery duels involving terrorists, violence against civilians, and so on. So I repeat, with everything else, with all the problems our soldiers can have out there with infectious diseases is primarily a high-risk mission. The Croatian Army, ladies and gentlemen, outside the Republic of Croatia can come out only through the decision of the Croatian Parliament and we as a club and as a party strictly adhere to these constitutional provisions. It is highly unacceptable for us to have a single Croatian military mission leaving outside Croatia or to extend without the Parliament's decision. However, here I must remind myself of the fact that the participation of the Croatian Army in the mission to Afghanistan has been extended without a decision of the Croatian Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen, it's a violation of the Constitution. So our soldiers in Afghanistan were instructed by Parliament's decision, and the mission was extended without Parliament's decision. Any sending soldiers outside Croatia must be based on the parliament's decision and it is unacceptable that such a thing has happened. I would like to warn this specifically from the aspect of NATO's already mentioned demands that Croatian soldiers may be sent outside the Republic of Croatia without the Parliament, i.e. only by the government's decision. We in HSP will never agree to such a thing. So for these reasons, it is difficult for us to support this decision, I repeat that this is about sending Croatian soldiers on a high-risk mission.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-30-0.u11446	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative Krešimir Ćosic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-30-0.u11447	Dear Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. I certainly believe that the Croatian Parliament will support this decision. Peace missions are a responsible and important state, an important commitment made by each member of the international community. They're risky. The risk is hard to predict, it's part of a military call. Indeed, it would be unusual for me to say irresponsibly if the Republic of Croatia chose peace operations for its international obligations, refraining from what was risky, refraining from where it was called, refraining from what is important. This is what Croatian officers and soldiers have never done, and I am sure that Croatian state policy will not force them to choose easy tasks and easy tasks. They have never done this, and I believe that as professionals they are aware of their responsibilities, and their responsibility has been formulated by the relevant strategic decisions of Croatian state policy. Participation in peace operations is part of a proactive Croatian state policy. It's part of a commitment that comes from our so-called membership action plan that defines the responsibility and obligation of the Republic of Croatia to participate in most peacekeeping operations. So, as it was, so it will be. But there is one part that is very important, and it is related to the participation of Croatian officers in peace operations. It is certainly necessary for the legislative legislation to be brought into line with everything that is important in order for decisions taken by the President of the Republic and the Croatian Parliament and the Government of the Republic of Croatia to be consistent and mutually consistent so that there are no conflicts and that all the procedures that are important in making final decisions on these issues are not unnecessary. In addition to these obligations regarding the harmonisation of the legislative system, how it was consistent or can be said to be interoperability with the legislative system that most NATO member states have to stress our most important obligation that when Croatian officers participate in peace operations then they should be provided with top-level training, top-level preparation, good selection and good material and equipment that they must have with them in peace operations. Good training, good training, good preparation is the best way to reduce the risks of military operations. In this way professional soldiers and professional officers minimise risks and make their activities in these important peace operations successful or minimally risky. Certainly, the problems of equipment, equipment problems, training and all others can and must be better and I believe that this will be one of the directions for restructuring the Ministry of Defence especially in the plan of strengthening infrastructure that is very important for training and training in these operations. For this reason, it would certainly be very interesting and useful if the training centre or polygon of the Croatian Army "Eugen Quaternik" in Slunje specialised and supported not only the officers, soldiers and officers from the Republic of Croatia who participate in peace operations but also offered services and assistance and other countries since various international agreements would force us to jointly establish missions and assume the responsibility of higher levels. In this sense, I certainly believe that this decision and this proposal will receive the support of the Croatian Parliament, but in the future we will very quickly coordinate this legislative system and make the infrastructure and preparation of Croatian officers in peace operations as high as possible, and this means with minimal military risk at the same time with maximum political effects in the interest of Croatian state policy as a whole. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-30-0.u11448	Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect alleged Mr. Representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-30-0.u11449	Dear Representative General Cosic said infrastructure for peace operations should be strengthened. Conversely, we need to strengthen the infrastructure that we have the Armed Forces towards the Constitution, that we also have the Croatian Navy and Croatian Air Force, not to abolish the project "Degman" and similar other situations. It's a statistical interest, not a reference outside.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-30-0.u11450	Thank you very much. It wasn't a replica. No one picked up the plate, according to nothing. Finally, a representative of the government, State Secretary Mr. Bakota. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-30-0.u11451	Honorable MPs and MPs. I would like to draw attention to the fact that the process of amending the Constitution is quite certain, so what MP Tadic was saying binds us to the Constitution and we as Government will absolutely adhere to the procedure. The amendments to the Constitution are known, and this is exclusively the opinion of the NATO delegation so I don't see any problem with the procedure put on the agenda today. I would also like to explain what the difference between our mission in Afghanistan is about this and the mission in India and Pakistan. When it comes to Afghanistan, the decision to refer our troops to the mission has established the possibility of rotation, so I would like to stress that there is absolutely no harm to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia as well as the procedure that requires the two-thirds majority of the Croatian Parliament. On the other hand, this mission since 2002 did not cover the possibility of rotation in its original decision. Right now, we want to make it possible to rotate in the same way as with the issues in Afghanistan so that the complete procedure is in accordance with the Constitution and in accordance with the fact that the Assembly makes the two-thirds majority of decisions on sending our troops to peace missions. In doing so, I would like to reiterate that there is still a difference in the procedural issue between these two missions and this is exactly how we want to correct it. In this way, this mission will in any case have the salary of the Croatian Parliament as required by the Constitution.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-30-0.u11452	Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect allegations, representative of Mr. Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-30-0.u11453	I would ask the Secretary of State to read the provisions of Articles 4 and 5. Law on the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, police and civil protection in peacekeeping missions. For every reference, as Mr Tonci Tadic said, this previous decision of the Croatian Parliament is needed. And this is why President Mesic refused to sign without a previous decision by the Croatian Parliament. And you've done this by the book, that's what you're talking about.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-30-0.u11454	Thank you. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-30-0.u11455	Ladies and gentlemen, we are going to vote on the Proposal for a Decision on the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the Peace Mission in India and Pakistan. The debate is closed. I am voting on the motion for a decision. The decision requires a two-thirds majority of all MPs' votes. So at least 100 votes in. Who's in favour of the motion for this decision? Thank you. Against? Restraint? I find that with 115 votes for and 1 against decisions taken in the text as proposed by the Proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-30-0.u11456	We move on to, - Proposal for a credible interpretation of Article 3(1). Tight interest laws, People's News, number 28/96. The draft act was submitted by the Legislative Committee. You received him at the session. Does the proposaler's representative want to take the floor? Yeah. The chairman of the Legislative Committee, Mr. Florian Boras.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-30-0.u11457	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. At the 10th session held on 27 April 2004, the Croatian Parliament's Legislative Committee discussed the Government's proposal for a credible interpretation of Article 3(1). Law on tight interest, which has been sent to the government since 15 April 2004. The Legislative Committee shall assess the doubts and different interpretations of the provision of Article 3(1). The law on tight interest, but to assess the basis for giving credible interpretation. Following the discussion, the Committee assessed that the Croatian Parliament should provide a credible interpretation of the provision of Article 3(1). The law on tight interest, respecting the reasons set out in the Government's proposal. The proposal for a decision proposing that the Croatian Parliament give a credible interpretation is given in addition to our letter sent to the President of the Croatian Parliament and I will read you the text of the proposal for credible interpretation in full. Therefore, "on the basis of Article 80. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 122. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, the Croatian Parliament at the session, assumes that today's vote will be, therefore, "30 April 2004 gives a credible interpretation of Article 3(1). Tight interest laws, People's News, number 28/96. In the doubt whether a comfortable way of calculating tight interest can be applied in case of delays in meeting the commitments made for a period of more than one year, it is considered not possible, but for this period longer than one year should be applied proportionally, i.e. a simple method of calculating tight interest. Explanation. Since the Justinian digests, i.e. from the Roman law interest are considered the fruits of the principal usura non-natural per veit set jure percitur. But they do not come in the very nature of the principal but are acquired by some right like the fructose civilians. In order to limit the free settlement of the excessively tight interest, long ago, it has been approached by its regulation, with the reservation of the fundamental principle that the tightening of interest has its criminal function in order to ensure the fulfilment of the debted monetary obligations and the function of compensation for the unrealised benefit of the creditors during which the debtor is late in fulfilling the monetary obligations. As a conditioned and monetary stability, a tight interest has thus become a limiting instrument according to which it does not have a function of acquiring material benefit without, through capital capital of the principal. Such principles were based on the provisions of the Law on Mandatory Relations, Official Journal "... From 78th to 99th, or 89th. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Then "The People's Newspaper" that took over that number 53/91 and subsequent amendments 112 to 99. The Commission therefore considers that the measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed, This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to officials and temporary staff in the ‘Communication’ policy area of the ‘Communication’ policy area of the ‘Communication’ policy area. By special law, it's the Voltage Interests Act, People's Newspaper, number 28/96. In accordance with Article 3(1) of Regulation (EU) No 1305/2013, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 4 of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013. It is also clear that the calculation of tight interest over a period of more than one year cannot be applied in a comfortable manner, but a proportionate, i.e. simple method of accounting is applied." Here, that, Mr. Vice President, was the text and the proposal for a credible interpretation. By the way, we also contributed to the opinions of the Committee on Finance of the Croatian Parliament, which has similar views. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-30-0.u11458	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. A representative of the SDP Club, Mr Nenad Stazic, came forward.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-30-0.u11459	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. The SDP club considers the regulation, i.e., the law is perfectly clear. And this government request for credible interpretation is seen as an attempt to strengthen the law. And to be said in some way through this credible interpretation, send one message in which to calculate a tight interest, to send one message that the law that is in that part is clear must be respected. When did the problem arise? In 93 C.E., ZAP began to apply the regulation with elasticity for a reason. It was a time of high inflation when ZAP, therefore, sought to protect the credentials by elastic interpretation of the rules. Then, of course, it was justified. In 94, the government passed the regulation, and the Law was passed in 96. And the law is, I repeat, very clear. At that time, however, the ZAP continued to apply high inflation practice. There's been a problem that lasts to this day. When the FINA business banks took over, payment traffic management warned them of the problem. They warned of this problem and it should be said the truth works. And a clue between this and that warning probably comes to the government's request to the Parliament to give a credible interpretation. It should also be pointed out that the government never, the Ministry of Finance only accounted for tight interest for its creditors according to a comfortable method for the entire duration of the debt. So the government, the Ministry of Finance, has always strictly adhered to the law. In this way, however, the government sent a clear message on how to account for interest. ZAP or FINA did not hear that message clearly. Now that it's seen how this ZAP calculates a tight interest and under the conditions when inflation was no longer available, there's a single space actually open for acquisition without a base. How? It's very simple. I'll describe only one possible model here. I make one contract, for example, with a local self-government unit, one city, a contract that I'll do some small-value business for the city, say 10 thousand kuna. I do the work, in agreement with the leaders of the local self-government, they never pay me for it. I let the last five or ten years get up with a lawsuit and what the court will do. The court will order the city to pay the debt and the corresponding interest. So when an executive procedure is carried out, so when it comes to the hands of the payer, sometimes the FINA business banks today, then by applying this kind of accounting, suddenly my claim of 10 thousand kuna has grown to a million. Mutandis mutants can also be seen in the newspapers very many examples of such acquisition without foundation. What about those who are this way damaged. It was heard here or read in the papers that the government would go to some kind of retroactive application of this regulation that I think is completely unnecessary. All those who are damaged have the opportunity to stand up with a claim of no basis and in this lawsuit will rise up, there is a general limitation period of 5 years accordingly, will succeed with the lawsuit and will return the money for which they have been damaged. Such application of interest accounts which has never been in accordance with the law. Therefore, the SDP supports this credible interpretation proposed by the Legislative Committee because we understand how empowering the Law and the message to business banks is how to account for tight interest. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-30-0.u11460	Thank you. In the name of the HSP Club, respected representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-30-0.u11461	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. You remember well that we, the rightful ones, spoke about this problem of interest, interest, racketeering of Croatian citizens at this session about and in the current morning and also about the Croatian State Agency. It's a huge problem that people have lost their entire assets because of 1 kuna in the way that the banks have taken them, the privates, and that I'm not saying who's involved in it. And what we're afraid of. We are afraid and also know the character of credible interpretation is not full of the obligation of courts and judges to act on it and the extent of this credible interpretation, we support it, but the achievement of this credible interpretation is not for those cases of 90 years of people who have lost their property in full terms of that word, which ended on the road, and therefore it would be smarter for the Government to, after this credible interpretation of us at the next session to deliver the Law of Amendments and Supplements, meaning a valuable law on tight interest in a way that could be legally covered by the previous situation, because we ourselves know that it is a final procedure to check whether there is such an obligation, or not exists, it is sufficient to give an executive proposal and most people, unfortunately, the executive procedure was almost without being given the possibility that they were even involved and the banks were deliberately informed to wait for them to pass the year and year. And again I say on behalf of the Club it seems to me that this was only done now because a bank came into the situation that, by the same principles as the other banks did towards Croatian citizens, now is a man whose circumstances I get called Kovacevic did it to her. Therefore, let us be aware and realistic about the amendments and additions of the Law so that the ordinary Croatian man who is most important to us would be protected by a powerful bank and we expect the Government to prepare soon and that the Law has a return effect because there is indeed an interest and a full justification constitutionally that he has a feedback and not in the cases in which we have brought feedback here. Thank you very much, and I expect support.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-30-0.u11462	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. Proposal for a credible interpretation of Article 3(1) It's a tight interest law. The debate is closed. I'm voting on a credible interpretation. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? I find it unanimous, that it is unanimous with 93 votes in favour of a credible interpretation of Article 3, paragraph 1. It's a tight interest law.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-30-0.u11465	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-30-0.u11466	Wait a minute.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-30-0.u11467	Okay?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-30-0.u11468	The proposal for a decision on the appointment of the Director and Deputy Director of the Personal Data Protection Agency, we will have some proposals before the Government. Proposal submitted, decisions submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia pursuant to Article 29. The law on the protection of personal data. The government has proposed to Franjo Lack for appointment as Director of the Personal Data Protection Agency. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I'm voting on the motion for a decision. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Abstained? I find that, unanimously with 88 votes, Mr. Francis Lacko has been appointed director of the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data. I am opening a debate on the proposal for a decision to appoint the deputy director of the Personal Data Protection Agency, where Mrs. Vilena Gasparovic was proposed. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the motion for a decision. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? I find that, with 85 votes, Mrs. Vilena Gasparovic has been appointed as the deputy director of the Personal Data Protection Agency.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-30-0.u11473	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleagues and fellow MPs. Proposal for a decision to appoint members of the Supervisory Board of the Croatian Privatisation Fund. The National Committee of the Croatian Privatisation Fund is appointed, a proposal from the MPs, MP Perica Bukic, representative Dragica Zgrebec, representative Miroslav Rožić and representative of Mr Josip Sudec. From the ranks of prominent financial experts Mr Zdenko Švedl and Mr Jadranko Mialić. The members of the Supervisory Board of the Croatian Privatisation Fund are Gordan Jandroković, president of the Committee on Economy, Development and Reconstruction of the Croatian Parliament, Mr Šime Prtenjač President of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament and Mr Ante Markov chairman of the Committee on Tourism of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-30-0.u11474	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I'm putting this proposal to a vote. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Restraint? Thank you. I note that they have been unanimously appointed to the Supervisory Board of the Croatian Privatisation Fund under the proposal for a decision. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-30-0.u11475	The Board for Selection, Designation and Administrative Affairs of the Croatian Assembly shall submit a proposal for a decision to appoint members of the Management Board of the National Foundation for Science, Higher Education and Technological Development of the Republic of Croatia. For a member of the Management Board of the National Foundation for Science, Higher Education and Technological Development of the Republic of Croatia, it is proposed to appoint the Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts as a member of the Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts Zvonko Kusić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-30-0.u11476	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the motion for a decision. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Restraint? Thank you. I find it unanimous. As a member of the Management Board of the National Foundation for Science, Higher Education and Technological Development of the Republic of Croatia appointed academician Zvonko Kusić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-30-0.u11477	The Board for Selection, Appointing and Administrative Affairs of the Croatian Assembly shall submit a proposal for a decision on the appointment of the State Commission for the Assessment of damages from elementary disasters. In the State Commission for the Assessment of damages from elementary disasters, the proposal is to appoint Commissioner Niko Rebić, Commissioners Ivan Drmić, Vladimir Pleško, Ivo Lončar, Ljubo Jurčić, Ivan Kolar, Dragutin Pukleš, Mr. Jasminka Deanovic of the Ministry of Finance, Prof. Dr. Dragan Kovacevic of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy and Secretary of State, Mrs. Bozica Marković, acting director of the Agriculture, Food and Forestry Sector of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce and Mr. Dragutin Klobučar Director of the Property Insurance Sector from Croatia d.d.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-30-0.u11478	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on a proposal for this decision. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? I find that, unanimously, the proposed representatives and other proposed persons are appointed to the State Commission for the Assessment of damages from the natural disasters with President Niko Rebić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-30-0.u11479	The Board for Selection, Designation and Administrative Affairs of the Croatian Parliament shall submit a proposal for a decision on the resolution and termination of the term of office of members of the Committee for the Sharing of State Awards for Science and the appointment of members of the Committee for the Sharing of State Awards for Science from the ranks of prominent scientific staff. The proposal is, members of the Committee on the Sharing of State Prizes for Science from the ranks of prominent scientific staff, and that is, Prof. Dr. Igor Zanki, Prof. Dr. Tomislav Florist, Prof. Dr. Jasna Franekić-Cholic. On 26 April 2004, the term of office of members of the Committee for the Sharing of State Prizes for Science was suspended from the ranks of prominent scientific staff and that was: to academics Radoslav Katičić, Prof. Dr. Zvonmir Laucu, Prof. Dr. Vladimir Mijkuličić, Dr. Katarini Ott, Prof. Dr. Mark Cave, Prof. Dr. Vladka Silobric, Prof. Dr. Anti-Siminich, Professor Dr. Marko Tadic, Prof. Dr. Maria Tuk. Point 3 of the decision would read: For the members of the Committee on the Sharing of State Awards for Science from the ranks of prominent scientific staff, the following are named: Prof. Dr. Peter Selem, Prof. Dr. Ivan Pavić, Prof. Dr. Dragica Kozarić-Kovačić, academician Milan Moš, academician Nenad Kambi, Prof. Dr. Hope Chikesh-Mihelčić, Prof. Dr. Krešimir Pavelić, Prof. Dr. Mario Kovac, Prof. Dr. Josip Baloban, Prof. Dr. Antun Tucak, Prof. Dr. Lerka Schiffler, Prof. Dr. The port of Sopta.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-30-0.u11480	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on a proposal for this decision. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? I find it unanimous with 83 votes to accept the motion for a decision.
