ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23377	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I am opening the 11th session of the Croatian Parliament and I warmly welcome you all as our guests at the Youth Association gallery, Jesus is the road from Split, which is accompanied by part of the meeting of the Croatian Parliament. I particularly welcome the Prime Minister, Dr. Ivo Sanader, vice president, vice-president and present members of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received a record of the 10th session of the Croatian Parliament by mail, any objections to the minutes? There isn't. I'm confirming that we've adopted the minutes of the 10th session. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we're moving on to the agenda of the session. In addition to the call for the session, you also received a draft agenda, and at the session you were given the final agenda. I included 4 new points in the Final Proposal for the Agenda. This proposal for a law on the confirmation of a loan agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development for the financing of a project to protect against water pollution in the coastal area with the final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 187; Second. Proposal for a Protection Act with a final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 186; Third. Pre-existing law amending and supplementing the law on freshwater fisheries, with a final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading of P.Z. No. 188; and fourth. Proposal for the establishment of an investigative fact-finding committee in connection with the handling of the registration and archives of transcripts from the Office of the President. Proposers of the right of MPs. This Regulation shall enter The Rules of Procedure set out firstly to decide on a proposal to adopt an individual law by an urgent procedure. The final draft agenda under paragraphs 4 to 6 from 8 to 11, 14 to 16 and 30 to 34 shall state the laws for which an emergency procedure is proposed. That's, uh, one. Proposal for a law on the approval of a protocol against illegal production and trade in firearms by its parts and components and ammunition, which complements the United Nations Convention against Transnational Organized Crime with the Final Proposal of the Law, the Emergency Procedure, the First and Second Reading of P.Z. No. 181. Second. Proposal for a law confirming the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Chile on the prevention and control of abuse and illicit trafficking in intoxicating drugs and psychotropic substances with a final draft law, emergency procedure, first second reading of P.Z. No. 182. Third. Proposal for a law confirming the Convention on the Marking of Plastic Explosives, with the final proposal for an emergency procedure, first and second reading of P.Z. No. 183. Fourth. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the forest laws, with a final draft law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading of P.Z. No. 176. Fifth. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on administrative fees in the field of intellectual property rights, with a final proposal for a law, emergency procedure for the first second reading of P.Z. No. 179. Sixth. Proposal for a deposit insurance law with a final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading of P.Z. No. 184. Seven. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the lease of business space with a final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading of P.Z. No. 177. Eight. Proposal for a law on the confirmation of a loan agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development for the financing of a project to protect against water pollution in the coastal area with a final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading of P.Z. No. 187. Nine. Proposal for a law on the protection of rescue with the final proposal for a law emergency procedure first and second reading of P.Z. No. 186. Ten. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on freshwater fisheries with a final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading of P.Z. No. 188. Eleven. Proposal for a law on amendments and amendments to the road safety law, with the final proposal of the law, Proposer Zeljko Pavlic, emergency procedure, first and second reading of P.Z. No. 165. Twelve. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing road safety laws with a final draft law, Proposer of the Club of Representatives of HSS emergency procedure, first and second reading of P.Z. No. 163. Thirteen. Proposal for a law amending the Telecommunications Act with the final draft law, Proposer of the SDP Representatives Club, emergency procedure, first and second reading of P.Z. No. 166. Fourteen. Proposal for a law on the promotion of domestic production for tourism placement, with the final proposal of the law, Proposer of the Klub representative of HSS, emergency procedure, first and second reading of P.Z. No. 169. Fifteen. Proposal for a Law amending the Health Protection Act, with the final proposal for a law, Proposer of the Club of Representatives LIBRE, emergency procedure, first and second reading of P.Z. No. 173. I note that the law set out in the final draft agenda under point 10 bears the P.Z.E. mark. and in accordance with Article 161 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure should not vote on the application of the emergency procedure. However, the Legislative Committee proposed first reading, not the application of an emergency procedure, which resulted in the suspension of Finance Minister Mr Ivan Schuker. Thus, the proposal under point 10 on the deposit is proposed, not an emergency procedure, at last, but a regular procedure. Any of the representatives have any objections to the application of an emergency procedure in the adoption of other proposed laws for the adoption of an emergency procedure? The president of the HDZ MP club, Vice-President Luka Bebic, please welcome.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23378	Mr President, the HDZ Club proposes that points 30, 31, 32, 33, 34, or Bill No 165, 163, 166, 169 and 173 be directed in the regular procedure. According to our assessment, not all the necessary conditions are met for these five proposals to take place in an emergency procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23379	So, your objection is to include an emergency procedure on the final draft agenda of item 28...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23380	No, it's 30, 31, 32, 33 and 34. 32,33, 30, 31, 32, 33. 34.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23381	In the final draft agenda. In the final draft agenda.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23382	I think that in the final proposal it is precisely points 30, 31, 32, 33 and 34.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23383	That's right. 30, 31, 32, 33 and 34. Okay. Now we're going in a row. Who is responsible for the implementation of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Confirmation of Protocols against Illegal Production and Trade in Firearms, its Parts and Components, and the ammunition supplementing the United Nations Convention against Transnational Organized Crime? Please turn on the I.D. keys for identification. Please vote. ... What, is there a problem? [[Everyone speaks out loud, they don't understand.]] What kind of counsel has a problem? ... A little bit with the key, so two MPs, try again. ... [[Everyone speaks out loud, they don't understand.]] What, that doesn't work for you? ... [[Everyone speaks out loud, they don't understand.]] The president of Klub HDZ, Mr. Luka Bebic, come in. [[Everyone speaks out loud, they don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23384	Mr. President, there's been some technical problems. I propose that we hold a vote on the vote for the adoption of the agenda by raising our hands on behalf of the HDZ Club. ... [[Everyone speaks out loud, they don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23385	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. One key doesn't work. I cannot single out the vote, cast a vote for one representative in a special way, and in accordance with the provisions of Article 238a. At the request of the representatives of the Club of Representatives, the vote will be held by raising hands and I will have nothing else to do but vote by hand when setting the agenda at the request of the representative of a club. I ask the representatives, who is to apply the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on the Confirmation of this Protocol? Who's in? Who's against it? I find it unanimous with 118 votes for this bill who is against? I find that, unanimously with 118 votes for this bill, it is set out in the agenda by emergency procedure. Who is responsible for the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on the Confirmation of Contracts between the Government of the Republic of Chile and the Government of the Republic of Chile on the prevention and control of abuse and illicit trafficking in intoxicating drugs and psychotropic substances? Who's in? Thank you. Against? I find that unanimously with 122 votes for and this bill is included in the agenda by emergency procedure. Who is the subject of an emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Confirmation of the Convention on the Marking of Plastic Explosives in order to detect? Who's in? Thank you. Against? I find that unanimously with 123 votes for and this bill is included in the agenda by emergency procedure. Who is for the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Forests? Thank you. Against? I find that, with 79 votes in favour and 44 against this bill, it is included in the agenda by emergency procedure. Who is the subject of an emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Amendments and the addition of the Law on Administrative Taxes in the field of intellectual property rights? Who's in? Thank you. Against? I find that with 93 votes for and 30 against and this bill is included in the agenda by emergency procedure. Who is for the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements on the lease of business space? Thank you. Against? I find that with 82 votes for and 41 against and this bill is included in the agenda by emergency procedure. Who is involved in the implementation of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Confirmation of the Loan Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development for the financing of credit protection against water pollution in the coastal area? Who's in? Thank you. Against? I find that unanimously with 124 votes to be included in the agenda according to the urgent procedure of this final draft of the law. Who is to apply the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Protection and Rescue Act? Thank you. Against? I find that, with 78 votes for and 48 against, and this final bill is included in the agenda by emergency procedure. Who is for the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on freshwater fisheries? Who's in? Thank you. Against? I find that with 75 votes for and 51 against and this bill is included in the agenda by emergency procedure. We now have a set of laws where the objection to the inclusion in the agenda was put into urgent procedure by the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community. The first is the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Road Safety Act proposed by MP Željko Pavlic. Who is to apply the emergency procedure for the adoption of this law? Against? Thank you. I find that for the application of the emergency procedure 55, v 71, so this bill goes into regular first-reading procedure. Secondly, who is involved in the implementation of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Road Safety Act, which was proposed by the Association of Representatives of the HSS? Who's in charge of an emergency procedure? Thank you. Who's against it? I find that 55 votes for implementation, 71 against the application of the emergency procedure, and therefore this bill goes into first reading, in a regular procedure. Who is the subject of an emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law amending the Telecommunications Act proposed by the SDP Representatives' Club. Who's in charge of an emergency procedure? Thank you. Who's against it? I find that 57 emergency procedures are against 70. And this proposal for a telecommunications law goes to first reading and is on the agenda in the first reading. Who is involved in the implementation of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on the Encouragement of Domestic Production for Tourism, proposed by the Association of Representatives of the HSS? Thank you. Who's against it? I find that for application 58, v. 69, therefore this bill is also going into regular first-reading procedure. Who is involved in the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law amending the Health Protection Act proposed by the Club of Representatives of the LIBRE. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? I find that for the emergency procedure to be applied 54, v 73, so this bill is also going into regular first-reading procedure. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, written objections to the agenda that I have proposed with the call for a session, and this agenda is in accordance with Article 203(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure are considered adopted. Ladies and gentlemen, the agenda has been established. In accordance with Article 205(2), I should now publish the established agenda. I suggest that normally, if you agree, I do not read the whole established agenda but only to announce that the agenda set out is as I have suggested in the final draft agenda with the amendments adopted. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the agenda has been established. Ladies and gentlemen, we have held a debate on the debated agenda points. On Wednesday, we will continue with the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Hire of Business Space, Final Proposal for a Law on the Protection of Patients' Rights and according to the order of the agenda that we have established. I interrupt the session, continue on Wednesday and 9.30.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23389	Thank you very much, Mr. President, given that we have recently completed the agenda for continuing the session with the budget for the following year and projections for 2006/2007. A year. The material that was shared just before this session contains only the expenditure side of the budget and nothing more. When we get the rest of the budget, I assume you're planning somewhere at the beginning of the session next week to discuss the budget. I don't think we could be ready if we didn't get the complete material until Monday. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23390	Thank you very much, Mr. Representative. All these written proposals of the budget and these accompanying laws and materials are multiplied and will be divided during today and tomorrow into boxes of MPs. And the MPs and the MPs. The debate, therefore, next week, next week would go towards the established order of the agenda and mid-week, most likely, so the committees also have clubs to work and get to know both the draft budget and all accompanying documents that they can do on Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday. My proposal is to start the debate on the Budget Proposal on Thursday. Thank you very much. Resume session Wednesday at 9, 30. We'll interrupt the little vote now. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. I will propose to the Rules of Procedure to supplement the agenda of this session, to the following points: - Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Guarantee Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and the European Investment Bank for a project to complete the highway on Corridor 10 in the Republic of Croatia, with the Final Proposal of the Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 201., - Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Energy Act, with the Final Proposal of the Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 202, - Proposal for a law on the electricity market, with the final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 200, - Proposal for a law on energy regulation, with the Final Bill, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 203. - Proposal for a law supplementing the Fire Law, with the Final Proposal of the Law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 199, - Proposal for a Law amending the Act on Scientific Activity and Higher Education, with the Final Proposal of the Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 196, - Proposal for a Law on Nature Protection, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 198, - Proposal for a Law amending the Law on travel documents of Croatian citizens, first reading, P.Z. No. 197, - Proposal for a decision to appoint a president and members of the National Council for Higher Education, - Proposal for a decision to appoint the President and members of the National Council for Science, - Proposal for a Decision supplementing the Decision on the List of Commercial Companies of the Special State Interest, - Proposal for a Decision establishing the Research Commission for the Determination of Facts in connection with concluded contracts between state bodies and companies owned or partly owned by officials. This Regulation shall enter The Rules of Procedure determines firstly that the proposal to adopt a specific law is to be adopted by an urgent procedure. I note that the laws that bear the P.Z.E. mark. on the application of the emergency procedure, pursuant to Article 161(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, We do not vote in our Rules of Procedure, these are: - Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Energy Act, - Proposal for a Law on the electricity market, - Proposal for a Law on the Regulation of Energy Activities, with the Final Proposal for a Law. Any of the representatives have any objections to the application of an emergency procedure in the adoption of other proposed laws? There isn't. Is there? Well, Mr. Caine, how am I supposed to know someone does, when you're holding your hand like this? Here you go, Agent Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23392	Dear Mr. President, I mean in these late hours, or it doesn't matter now that early, afternoon supplement the agenda with a dozen points really doesn't make sense, and most irritable is probably this investigative commission of officials...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23393	Do you have an objection to, uh, an objection to the law?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23394	I have an objection that we have no material, that we can't manifest ourselves until we see what it's really about. We can assume and speculate what it is about, let's say, this item of the agenda where it is proposed to set up an investigative committee...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23395	Well, that goes under two, now we're talking about laws.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23396	At all.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23397	At all?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23398	We don't get a chance to see them.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23399	At all? Good for everyone. Who is for the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Treaty on Guarantee between the Republic of Croatia and the European Investment Bank for a project to complete the highway on Corridor 10 in the Republic of Croatia. The president of the Club of Representatives, representative of Luka Bebic, vice president. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23400	I propose that the vote on the establishment of a supplement of the agenda be carried out by raising hands for speed on the basis of the article... [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23401	Okay. Thank you. Who's in charge of an emergency procedure with this law? Thank you. Against? There isn't. I'm determining that it's unanimously included in the agenda by emergency procedure. Who is to apply the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on the Completion of the Fire Department? Thank you. Against? I find that it is unanimously included in the agenda of this bill. Who is for the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law amending the Law on Health Activity and Higher Education? Thank you. Against? I also find that this bill has been included unanimously in the agenda according to an emergency procedure. Any of the MPs have any objections to the inclusion of any of the other points on the agenda? There isn't. I'm determining gentlemen and ladies and MPs that the addition of the agenda has been established. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, tomorrow at 9:30 we will continue with the debate we have interrupted, the report on the work of the HRT Council and the implementation of the programme principles and obligations laid down by the programme law, the report of the directorship on the operation of HRT in 2003, the report of the independent audit of the financial reports carried out for 2003, 4 clubs remain. The first is the club of HSLS MPs DC, respected representative Frano Piploić, and then Petar Selem HDZ, then Mr Antun Vujic SDP and respected representative Zdenka Chuhnil on behalf of the National Minority Club and then 20 MPs, and afterwards we are going to discuss the proposal to launch the trust of Minister Miomir Žužul. I'm interrupting the session, thank you very much. Have a nice, pleasant rest and good night.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23406	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Here's because we're the only ones left here, I guess you'll give me your word to say something essentially.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23407	Do you object to any of these points in the agenda?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23408	Yeah, yeah, yeah, let me say it. The way we determine emergency procedure and about actually...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23409	Do not forgive me, not about the way it is included in the emergency procedure, for I propose, in accordance with Article 204, the addition of the agenda as referred to in Article 161. Rules of Procedure for which it is proposed to adopt an emergency procedure bearing the P.Z.E. marking. shall not be voted on. And I ask, do you have any objections to including any of these six points in the agenda?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23410	Well, my one decision to ask for a break on behalf of the club, so I can say what I intend to say. So please break for half an hour on behalf of the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23411	Thank you very much, the Rules of Procedure, unfortunately, won't allow it until further notice. That's what we brought in with the novel. Yes, so, unfortunately, I'd be happy to give it to you, but the Rules of Procedure won't allow it. Ladies and gentlemen, the amendment of the agenda has been established.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23412	I beg your word, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23413	For a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23414	Thank you very much. In order to be obvious about the additions to the agenda, please pause for half an hour on behalf of the HSS Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23415	So I've already explained that before the agenda is established, there are no MPs, no clubs on the break. What? Look at my colleague, Pacek. It says nice, 233b. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. In accordance with Article 204(2), I will propose to the Rules of Procedure an addition of the 11th session agenda to the next points. 1. Proposal for a Law on Public Roads, with final bill, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 224, 2. Proposal for a Hunting Act, with final bill, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 227, 3. Final proposal of the Maritime Code, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 130, 4. Proposal for a Law on Mandatory Relations, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 226, 5. Proposal for a State Service Act, first reading, P.Z. No. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure determines firstly that the proposal to adopt a specific law is to be adopted by an urgent procedure. I note that the laws proposed to adopt by emergency procedure bear the P.Z.E. mark. we do not vote on an emergency procedure in accordance with Article 161. Any of the MPs have any objections to including any of the points in the agenda? Dear Representative Dragutin Lesar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23417	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I have a dilemma, is that an observation or a question? Are we going to get the texts of these laws before the debate in Parliament or after the debate is over?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23418	I'll take that dilemma away from you now. Those laws came to the Parliament. ... So wait a minute, they're multiplying and they're going to be in the boxes, it's just about getting into the agenda of the law, and there's going to be a debate about them next week. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23419	But your question was whether anyone would object to getting into the agenda, and the assessment of the inclusion depends on the content, not on...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23420	So do you have any objections to any of these laws and which ones?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23421	I will always protest that during the session, laws are included which have not been delivered before you propose to supplement the agenda. So I have an objection and I protest for it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23422	Okay. For not being delivered to you?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23423	Yes, Mr. President, because the question of accepting an amendment to the agenda depends on content, not purely spite. Not because I have to explain it now, and I can talk about the content when I see it, and you didn't even say what points of the agenda we'd get into, so maybe you can say that, so what point of the agenda would be the law we're just going to get and we don't know when we're going to discuss it. I hope not tonight.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23424	Not tonight.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23425	What about Saturday?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23426	Well, not on Saturday, so we're not on Saturday.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23427	Well, you announced the possibility of working Saturday.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23428	Possibly, but not this one.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23429	Not this one? So I protest and do not agree that any draft law enters the agenda unless it has been previously delivered that an insight into the text of the law can be made.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23430	You'll have it fine tomorrow then. All right. Honorable representative Ingrid Antičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23431	Yes, but on my objection, I ask the Parliament to come forward.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23432	We'll get right to it.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23433	Dear Mr. President, just as my colleague has said, I have an objection to the inclusion of this Law on Mandatory Relations, a law that is likely to have over a thousand articles, which has been produced for over ten years now being included in the agenda, and we haven't even seen it yet, let alone to be able to read it in an emergency procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23434	First reading. It's a bill in the first reading.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23435	Mandatory relationships?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23436	Yeah.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23437	Okay. The team is minor, but it still remains that complaint that my colleague Lesar made.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23438	Okay. Tomorrow you'll have all these bill proposals and then we'll do this again tomorrow, but nothing changes that to things. You'll have it tomorrow, tomorrow you'll have it in your hands. Nothing really changes things, just getting into the agenda, right? Tomorrow we will continue with the Final Proposal for the Law on the Croatian Memorial Documentation Archive of Homeland War, then the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Audit and the Final Proposal for the Law on Deposit Insurance, the Classification of Unprocessed Wood, the Final Proposal for the Law on Road Transport and the Final Proposal for the Law on Explosive Substances and the Final Proposal for the Law on International Legal Assistance. At 3:00 a.m., there will be a vote, which I especially inform those who have shown great interest in voting. We have 27 points to vote on. So at 3:00 a.m. vote, and proceed with these points tomorrow. What we don't finish tomorrow from these points, we'll continue next week. ... This was an unknown voice from a famous man. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] And tomorrow we'll assess whether we'll continue on Monday and Tuesday, tomorrow. Here's your colleague, Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23439	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Since you announced a vote tomorrow at 3:00. Are we going to vote using an electronic voice system or like "tungusia" and Albania by hand?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23440	We will vote in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, with the ways envisaged by the Rules of Procedure, on what proposals they are. I prefer this way of voting that we paid for. Electronicly, but which does not exclude the possibility of a combined transmission.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23441	I trust you to prefer an electronic vote, that's correct and thank you for that. But I guess in your answer, and the possibility of the HDZ club again asking for a gymnastics vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23442	What the HDZ Club will do, what suggestions it will have, depends on the HDZ Club and its boss. I'm just suggesting that you be at the vote then you'll make sure...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23443	I can promise you that I will personally be at the vote provided that we vote individually on all points.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23444	Do you promise on behalf of all the clubs of the opposition parties or just...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23445	I said it myself. Personally, I'm never a collective.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23446	That you would vote if everything were to be voted as in the Law on the Rights of Croatian Lawyers?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23447	The Rules of Procedure say individually, not in that law, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23448	Well, in the Law on the Rights of Croatian Defence, we voted individually.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23449	And four days before that with the help of ghosts, right.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23450	No, not ghosts. Okay. Ladies and gentlemen, I'll see you tomorrow at 9.30. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we're going to hold off a little bit with the vote, and I'm going to vote in accordance with Article 204(2). The Rules of Procedure shall propose to supplement the agenda of the 11th session to the following points. 1. Proposal for a Law on Public Roads, with the Final Proposal of the Law, P.Z. No. 224, 2. Proposal for a law on hunting, P.Z. No. 227, 3. Final proposal of the Maritime Code, P.Z.E. No. 130, 4. Proposal for a Law on Mandatory Relations, P.Z.E. No. 226, and 5. Proposal for a State Service Act, P.Z. No. 225. The laws proposed under the emergency procedure are marked P.Z.E. and in the application of the emergency procedure pursuant to Article 161(1); We don't vote on the rules of procedure. Any of the representatives have any objections to the inclusion of some of the points in the agenda other than those on P.Z.E.? There isn't. Ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, the addition of the agenda has been established. We'll continue the session Tuesday at 9:30, and now we'll move to, with these agenda points that have now been entered because the committees are scheduled for Monday on these points that we just put on the agenda or with some others who are in the agenda.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23459	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to refer my question to the President of the Croatian Government, Mr. Eve Sanader. Mr. President, no social group of Croatian societies has been so robbed and robbed in the last 50 years as Croatian peasants. It's been happening for the last ten years. Today, two fundamental problems burdening agriculture as a fundamental economic branch are food imports, unnecessary food imports and agromafia that imports that food. Last year, we imported from the official food records for a billion 256 million dollars, and this year for the first nine months for almost a billion dollars. We import this food unnecessarily, but also by importing at least importing what we need, but by importing it is literally garbage and thus poisoning Croatian people. I could give you a lot of examples, but I'll take only two. Last year, frozen meat imported to Croatia was imported into the country from which it was imported for more than a year, a disaster. This year we imported cherries, because unfortunately they were not in Croatia, I know them from the country from which they were imported, three days before they were sold on Croatian markets, were sprayed against diseases and pests, so one total poison. I ask you a question, what will you specifically do to make this agromafia as impossible as it is in its immoral wealth and in the poisoning of Croatian people, because this has really gone beyond measure. I know that your hands are quite tied, but I asked this question on purpose to you and asked as the head of the Croatian government to keep your voice as far away as possible and to prevent this agromafia, which, in addition to needlessly destroying the Croatian economic system, is poisoning Croatian people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23460	Thank you. Prime Minister, Dr. Ivo Sanader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23461	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Loncar, with many of the reviews you have given in your question, I agree and I think most of the Croatian public agree. However, before I answer this most important question in terms of quotes: "agromafia", I would like to say that this year, because of the drought in last year, we had such a condition that we entered 2004 with insufficient corn, sugar, cattle, wheat, etc. It's about the objective state of things, because we all know that last year's drought was very tragic and most catastrophic. But it doesn't change anything on the fact that there are still structures, that there are groups that import what is said in some dictionary "bofl goods", and what is said in a different way, you have called it, I won't quote what you said, whether it's about poisoning or not, but in any case, by setting up the Food Agency, and that's what the Government has specifically done, by setting up the Food Agency that we've set up headquarters in Osijek, I think we'll take steps that will be very quickly visible, and I hope in the next year that the government will take concrete action. We want to record the situation, we are aware of the fact that Croatia and accession are in the process of joining the European Union, which is also one of those I would say the quality elements that will help us in this, because even the European Union cannot be imported into anything and the Member States of the European Union know how to protect its population from importing everything and everything. Therefore, by respecting the rules we want to join, surely this will remain one of my government's permanent priorities.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23462	Thank you very much. Representative Loncar.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23463	Mr. President, according to our Rules of Procedure, I could express pleasure or dissatisfaction with your question, but I will make one finding. Unfortunately, if in Croatia, in Croatian public life and in Croatian politics we had a consensus such as the consensus between agromafia where I know it reliably, there are people from all parties. I'm asking you to step up control of both customs and police. We have too many unemployed people. If we hire at least 5,000 people there and we have controllers and controllers, we're not gonna lose anything because we're gonna protect our people. The most sacred is a human being, the most holy man. So let's protect these people, and then there'll be dragon sentences. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23464	Thank you. Honorable representative of Ivica Clem.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23465	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. I ask the question of the minister of the family, defenders and intergenerational solidarity, Deputy Prime Minister Mrs. Jadranki Kosor. I am aware that the Ministry, led by Mrs. Jadranka Kosor, in cooperation with local self-government units, has launched a programme to help older people. I would especially like to emphasise this as a need in rural areas where unfortunately we have an ageing population and where exactly that kind of concern, the unit of local self-government and the state is absolutely necessary. The question is going in the direction, how many units of local self-government have been involved in this programme and will the Ministry support and financial, of course, in other ways this programme to help older people? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23466	Deputy Prime Minister, Minister, Mrs Jadranka Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23467	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Parliament, Your Honor, Mr. Representative, thank you very much for the question I want and I really thank you for your opportunity to answer, i.e. in very short lines, to learn about the results of the work of the intergenerational solidarity management at the Ministry that I am headed. In fact, it is a completely new project, as you know, since all statistics, i.e. demographic research, say that Croatia is just ahead of the explosion of persons, i.e. the population of the third age. So, from 65 years to more, but we're about to blow up a person who's about to turn 80. So it is very clear that they need a different form of care and complete care, that is, help and where they live, especially for those who are alone, powerless and sick. These projects that we started this year, and we started only after the budget was adopted, so from the end of the 3rd month, I am pleased to announce that such a one-day stay for elderly people in Sibenik is open. That's the first time. Since these daily stays include 4 islands from which older and powerless persons will be brought, especially in winter months, to care for the stationary, or specially decorated apartments. I think that's particularly true of the tendency of this program. Also next week, we predict the opening of such a home, or one living room for elderly people in the Belom Manastir. In this first year, we go to those areas where there are many older people who do not have adequate accommodation, they want to go to homes, and homes are either not there or they are being converted. A special part of the program concerns the assistance of the elderly in the house, just in the area of Vukovar-Srijem County we started with such a pilot project. It includes 15 municipalities of Vukovar-Srijem County. Of course, we are going with the City of Vukovar, with Ilock, the municipality of Germany, the town of Sibenik, I mentioned that, however, we are going to the town of Sibenik to help in the house. Then, Virovitica, Split-Dalmatia County, Lovovac municipality, Croatia Kostenica. Then, we cooperate in this project with Karitas, or the Red Cross. So, the project of helping older and powerless people in the house so far has included about 9,000 older people in these areas that I mentioned, but we are now going to the area of Međimurje County, to the area of Požega-Slavon County, so that by the end of this year this project will cover 10 counties. So in the first year of the project, and what I think is also important, will be with, therefore, in the implementation of this project employed by up to 400 new people, meaning 400 new employees, which all together, here, gives one good basis for continuing of course these projects in the following year in the areas of other counties. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23468	Thank you. Honorable representative of Ivica Clem.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23469	Thank you very much. I absolutely support this approach, and I am pleased with your efforts to do everything for older and powerless people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23470	Honorable representative of Slaven Letica.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23471	Dear President Shakespeare, members of the government, would especially welcome my and HSP's presidential opponent, Mrs. Jadranka Kosor. My question is addressed to the Prime Minister to Dr. Ivo Sanader, but also to one of the leading experts in the field of foreign policy. The question is, we are witnessing these days two unsavourable events and I am interested in how you personally see that these two unfavorable events will affect our country's foreign policy position. The first is, to all normal people incomprehensible, I would almost say a strange statement by the President of the Republic, Stipe Mesic if we hadn't fought Montenegro. I'm particularly interested in how this statement will affect our lawsuit before the court of justice at The Hague. The second is the obvious another conflict of interest in which Foreign Minister Miomir Zuzul and his announcement that your government will continue to ensure the protection of workers will write off state claims to Croatian companies.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23472	One moment, I must point out that an agent can only ask one question. ... Yeah. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I'd like to ask you a question. Prime Minister, Mr. Ivo Sanader.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23473	Mr. Letica, a statement by the President of the Republic, Mr. Stjepan Mesic, that Croatia has never fought with Montenegro will not compromise our foreign policy position or affect activities in foreign policy. Why won't it affect? I will not comment on the statement of the President of the Republic, but I will say what I think about it. That's not true. We're here and there's a consensus about it, but I don't want to get into any comments. Everyone in Croatia, especially the President of the Republic, has the right to an opinion. But I want to hope that it's said in one, let's say, one situation he may not have been able to cope with. However, we all know in Croatia that the part that was committed to aggression, that in that part of the aggression, they participated in Montenegrin forces. Finally, it shouldn't be, it doesn't have to be remembered much, here came a confirmation yesterday by Montenegrin Foreign Minister who apologized precisely for his country's role in the large-serb aggression. However, this cannot affect, and I repeat once again, I want to hope that it was a reckless statement that cannot affect the external political position of the Republic of Croatia. We still want to normalise relations with Serbia-Montenegro. Croatia was dragged into a war that was imposed. We won that war, and we don't have any complexes for anyone. And I think it's time for a full normalisation of relations with the principles of mutual respect, mutual recognition and pro-European perspective. And in the sense that I don't see any problems for our international position. I even think that at this point it was quite unnecessary to open it and I am for full normalisation with Serbia-Montenegro as well as with all other neighbours. That's one thing. As for the second question here, it's about the fact that the government did something that we were asked by workers to do. The bankruptcy company was bought in bankruptcy, of which the money was purchased, was to first settle according to the decision of the courts, the second government and the third workers. We did nothing more and nothing less than the workers asked us, the workers who are on the street today, the workers of Imostroy, in Imotski who are on the street today, who are not employed, asked us if they could come to another place instead of the government. That's what the governments before us did, that's what the previous government had never criticised. If we could do something for the workers who were out of a job, we did it. We left second place, second place to the workers to get paid. I repeat, these are not workers who work at a company, they are workers who are on the street today without a job and therefore the government has made this move and there is no foreign minister in any conflict of interest, nor have we in any way been able to benefit except those who have no jobs and who have received salaries.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23474	Honorable representative of the Slaven Letica, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23475	I'm a little surprised by your position that the president's statements will have no effect on the attitudes of the international community and our neighbours towards us. The president of the country's responsibility is too great to take his words seriously. And as far as the foreign minister is concerned, I didn't want to ask you about the explanation, but how he, as Croatia's negotiator tomorrow, will perform with reduced credibility in negotiations with the European Union and other countries, that's what I wanted to ask you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23476	Dear Representative Vesna Škulić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23477	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Mr. President, I would like to address the question to the Deputy Prime Minister, Mrs. Jadranka Kosor. This year's budget, as part of the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship, provides funds in the Fund for Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities of 21 million, 662 000, 257 kuna. It's spent 0 kunas. As part of your ministry, funds have been provided to monitor and improve policies for people with disabilities worth 250,000 kuna, unfortunately 0 kuna has been spent there. Why?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23478	Vice-President of the Government, Minister of the Jadranka Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23479	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Mr. President, Madam Representative. As for the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship, of course I can't answer that question, you must refer it to the Resoring Ministry. As far as my ministry is concerned, this finding of yours is completely incorrect. I don't know on what basis you realize that 0 kuna is spent, because all programs will be executed by the end of this year, all positions will, of course, be fairly just in front of you representatives in the Croatian Parliament. What I can inform you about so far has been done both in my Ministry and in the Committee of the Government of the Republic of Croatia for persons with disabilities who I am headed as Deputy Prime Minister is several important projects. Among other things, here I remind you of just recently the day of the White Stick, so on October 15th, a contract was signed, i.e. an agreement with the Croatian Association of Blinds where we first help them to print or create special textbooks for primary and secondary school students, of course we extend this project to students and you know best how difficult it is for these students, i.e. to get textbooks that are extremely expensive because printing one costs more than tens of thousands of kuna. UZ we are going with the project of the Ombudsman for disabled persons, it is a project which I believe will be proposed by the Committee for Persons with Disabilities of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The Ministry that I am headed is also the first project to be launched in which 100% of the people with disabilities from the Homeland War and representatives of the Alliance of Persons with Disabilities or Civil Disabilities are involved, I think that this is an important step, in which we have appointed you as the only representative of the disabled, and in this way we would also like to point out that we want to skip both prejudices and obstacles and barriers. This commission has completed its work and we will go to adjustments in several cities, i.e. towns, or municipalities according to one survey conducted by people with disabilities from the Homeland War, as well as all disabled people, in the cities of Valpovo, Belić, Donji Miholjc, The White Manastir, Virovitica, but also Djurdjevac, we are waiting for more deliveries of completed projects and spenders from Novska, Knin, Osijek, Gospić, Vukovar, Križevci, Slatine, Dubrovnik, Pakrac, Lipika means where the need for local administration was not able to make some adjustments here we go with our own projects. Also under way is the preparation of proposals for the introduction of a personal assistant institute, then, a working group for equalising rights is established, we do so with the Ministry of Health and Social Care, meaning for equating the rights of persons with disabilities from the Homeland War and civil disabled wars. Then, of course, we helped in the work of different associations, such as the Association for the Education of Dogs Guides of Blind Persons, also the Croatian Association of Associations of Cerebral and Child Paralysion, and a number of other projects so that ultimately this position you mention will naturally be met in all aspects and programming but of course also financially. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23480	Thank you. Dear representative Vesna Škulić please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23481	Thank you very much. I would like to point out once again that the items for monitoring and improving the policy for people with disabilities from 250 thousand kuna have not been spent or liped, it is now the 11th month of 2004. You, as president of the Government of the Republic of Croatia's Committee for Persons with Disabilities, should also know why not a drop from this fund of 21 million 662 thousand 257 kuna has been spent. I am pleased to start working groups and commissions, however, they cannot be their own purpose, they cannot be satisfied with the answer as well as 429 thousand 421 people with disabilities in Croatia because every day I get phone calls and ask when the status of persons with disabilities will finally begin to be resolved in this year or when they will be working on their reintegration into society. I'm asking you a written answer and I'm also wondering if anyone will answer for this.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23482	Thank you. Dear Representative Vojislav Stanimirovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23483	Mr. President of the Parliament, Mr. Prime Minister of the Government and Mr. Representatives, I would like to refer the question to Minister Calmeta. Most citizens did not get the opportunity to buy former social housing even though they had the status of housing rights holders and did not lose that right. Most of these dwellings are still uninterrupted, and some are waiting for their restoration to enter them. They didn't buy the apartments because they weren't given an opportunity like any other citizens with the same rights and status. In all the cases so far, the government has established the possibility and deadlines for the exercise of that right. The citizens I'm talking about aren't given that possibility yet. That's why I'm asking Minister Calmeta when will former tenants who have not lost that right get the opportunity to buy the apartment?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23484	Minister Calmeta, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23485	Thank you. The tenant could apply for the purchase of the apartment by the end of 1997. Therefore, whoever submits an application by that date or after that date no longer has the right to purchase an apartment even though he was a former homeowner. However, when it comes to areas of special state concern, these are areas specific we all know. In these areas these apartments can be purchased but based on the Law on Areas of Specific State Care. So that possibility is open and in accordance with the Law on Areas of Special State Care, these dwellings, i.e. those holders in these areas, can also be redeemed under that law.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23486	Representative Stanimirovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23487	Well, I'm partially satisfied with the answer. But I think these are cases that have been forgotten and that no one seems to be responsible or responsible for them, because there's nothing to be done about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23488	Thank you. Honorable representative of Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23489	Dear President of the Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the government. I would like to refer the matter to the Minister of Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity, Vice-President of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, Mrs Jadranki Kosor. According to the provisions of the Zarin Law, a disabled person with 100% physical impairment or at least 80% of the physical damage to the function of a moving body is entitled to release from customs when importing a car for personal use. The Government of the Republic of Croatia shall further specify potential users and determine the variants of car use, define the shortest route in which the right can be consumed, and define the necessary documentation and marking of such vehicle. The Regulation shall apply from 1 November 2003. On 2 October 2003, the Government of the Republic of Croatia made a decision on the ex post part of the funds for the import of a personal car at the level of value added tax for 2003 to persons with disabilities when importing a personal car. This right could also be consumed retroactively from 1 January to 31 December 2003. The Decision of the Government of the Republic of Croatia of 8 February 2004 established the Committee of the Government of the Republic of Croatia for persons with disabilities who have particularly prominent obligations to comply with legal and other rules in the function of improving the living conditions of persons with disabilities. Despite what is said, there are a number of serious bureaucratic obstacles to the realisation of the rights of people with disabilities on imports of personal cars. So I ask you, Madam Vice-President, when people with disabilities will be able to exercise their rights uninterrupted and in the context of whether this government will also regulate, by decision or other act, the release of persons with disabilities from paying VAT for the current year, and also because of the introduction of excise duties which disabled persons are not exempt from the Tax Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23490	Thank you. Deputy Prime Minister, Minister Jadranka Kosor, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23491	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Representative, you have well concluded that the government has established this commission, which it does and I am sure that the results of this work will be the answer, i.e. in part, to answer the questions that you have asked. As far as I know customs are freed all the cars of European manufacturers, so I believe that it is partly satisfying, that is, the answer to your question. And as for other issues, I agree that there are many problems that really need to be solved, I believe that this commission and the Committee of the Government of the Republic of Croatia will be for persons with disabilities who still have to meet until 3. The 12th International Day of Persons with Disabilities come up with some very concrete proposals, I cannot now prejudge at this moment before I also announced an initiative for the procedure, that is to say by law, which we would send to the Advocate General's Procedure for Persons with Disabilities. And as part of all that, I believe, I repeat again to three. 12. that this commission you mention, which was founded by the Government and the Committee of the Government for Persons with Disabilities, will answer these questions that you have asked today. I agree with you there are a lot of problems. But they certainly can't get rid of it right away, and they can't get rid of it in 10 months. We have decided to solve many of these problems for people with disabilities by the end of the term of office. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23492	Thank you. Honorable representative of Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23493	I want to believe that this commission is really going to get these results, and in the term of office, it will solve a lot of the difficulties that have been caused by the disabled. But the point is, there are a lot of bureaucratic obstacles. And I'd like to ask one of your analysis and a written answer to this question. I am pleased with the answer, but I am not satisfied with the current state and bureaucratic obstacles facing disabled people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23494	Thank you. Honorable representative Zdenka Babic-Petrichevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23495	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to address my question to the Secretary of State of the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports. Mr Janjic, Croatia as a mother country has great constitutional and moral and historical obligations towards Croatians from the country. Priorities are different, but it is certainly one of the priorities of the country of origin to make it possible to learn Croatian better for generations born outside the country, unfortunately more than in the country, and to this end we have organised a Croatian supplemental course that has lasted since 1990, even before the recognition of the Croatian state. Normally, Croatia stands out of the budgets of 23 million kuna. Certainly, the results are expected not only because of these 23 million kunas, but the results should be greater for many generations as I have said, especially in European and overseas countries. Croatian supplemental teaching, i.e. teachers and everything else, is very important in what we often say about the return of Croats to their homeland. The results of this not only on children, not only on parents, but on teachers, or Croatian teachers, who are sent to work in Croatia for an additional abroad course. I will look back because there is no time only for the Regulation adopted by the first former coalition government in 2003, this Regulation is counter-constitutional, because only Croatian citizens living and staying in the Republic of Croatia can come to the competition under this Regulation, and you know that many Croatian citizens who meet other conditions and do not stay in the Republic of Croatia. In that respect, on 23 October, I sent a proposal in writing to amend the Regulation on behalf of the Committee on Immigration. After my parents, I can get a couple of phone calls...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23496	Ask a question.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23497	..until now I have not received an answer about what you've done regarding the change in the Regulation? When will I get the answer in the hope that this answer will be positive?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23498	Thank you. State Secretary at the Ministry of Education, Mr. Janjic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23499	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Madam MPs, I would first of all like to thank you, so both you and the Immigration Committee, who are taking care of this and which point to the need to address this problem. We have indeed received a letter from you on October 21st, so it hasn't been that long and we have already agreed at the Ministry for the next college which will be tomorrow to open this issue with the intention of mentioning by the end of this calendar year the Terms and Procedure of the selection of teachers for work in the supplemental teaching with children of Croatian citizens abroad to change it. So not only in these parts that you mention, but in other parts. We fully agree with your assessment that there are anti-constitutional provisions and we will certainly change that. Furthermore, we intend to define who can do business in our schools outside. So this time we're going to have to say that it's a highly professional preparation. What we are also going to say is that, in addition to the general conditions, we will take good care of the results of the work of those teachers who are being directed abroad. Indicators can be their successes with students in national competitions and some of their other successes in their work. We can also talk about perhaps the age they have, which they have spent in the classroom. Furthermore, we will certainly take care of the status of teachers when they leave, about their preparation for departure that should be much better than before, of course, their mandate and that is what will be particularly important for us to take care of. So, this kind of solution that we currently have doesn't seem to be good, and maybe to mention one more thing, but it's not the only thing that we're going to change we're probably going to think about terms for the coordinator and that's one of the important questions. So far, we have not committed him to co-operation with Croatian diplomatic representations, for example with a cultural attaché. These are all the parts that we will certainly discuss and I assure you that by the end of this year, we will bring amendments to this rule, so even something broader than what you mentioned. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23500	Dear representative Zdenka Babic-Petricevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23501	Mr Secretary of State, in our proposal, we have proposed amendments to the article of the existing Regulation Articles 2, 6 and 9. You said by the end of the year if a tender will be called please be in December this year I hope that there will be a change of rules now in November before that. Please. And the answer in writing.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23502	Dear Representative Marin Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23503	Dear Mr. President, a question for the Prime Minister. Mr. Prime Minister, I'm not going to ask you anything about your Minister Zuzul, who just left us, but I'd like to ask you a question about the indifference of health care. Now you'll be quiet. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Is it true that it is possible for Croatian hospitals to owe an average of over 300 days to drug and equipment suppliers of which County hospitals on average for over 400 days and clinical centres for about 240 days even though the contract deadline is 180 days? Is it true that HZZO didn't pay for the drugs for 220 days even though the contract deadline was 120 days? Is it true that, on this basis, health dues amount to 1.5 billion kunas of unpaid bills to suppliers? In a closed circle, this means that wholesalers do not pay even drug manufacturers and neither do they pay other suppliers, so the insolvency chain is expanding. Please answer me on this example if Croatia is slowly sinking into the fungi of indifference.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23504	Prime Minister Dr. Ivo Sanader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23505	Thank you very much, Mr. President! Mr. Representative Jurovic, first of all, a very clear and brief answer. Croatia is not sinking anywhere. Croatia is just getting out of the fungi in which we found it among other things and in health care. Some of the data you've provided is correct, some of it's not true. However, the fact is that we in healthcare this year have paid the debts we have found taking responsibility for Croatia worth 3.5 billion kuna. 3.5 billion kunas were debts that we only paid this year for the amounts we found. It's a fact and it's true. And now I'd like it because it's a really hard situation. I don't want to say that it's not a difficult situation, that we're not arguing about it, that we're trying to figure out what the facts are and we're finding as many speculations as possible. So there's no speculation here. The fact is that we are this year and we can document it. I'll be happy to send you all the written evidence that we've paid the debts we took from last year worth 3.5 billion. That's right, I've made the commitments we're going to make, we're going to document it and bring it out to the Croatian public. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] However, in spite of all this, we have a solution, and very soon we will be in front of the Croatian public with a solution to close everything we have found. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23506	Honored representative Marin Jurjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23507	Mr. Prime Minister, with all due respect, indeed, to me who read the Law on the implementation of the budget of your word is not true because it does not say so, and you will have to really make a fat argument there, because it does not say so in the Law on the implementation of the budget. And the past government has been dealing with deliosis in health four times, and I've taken the example of health care. The problems were also highlighted by Mr. Schafer, the president of Croatia's craft trade, who even more tragically described the situation.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23508	I ask the ministers to refrain from commenting. Here you go, counselor!
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23509	Thank you very much, Mr. President. And I'm sorry to say that Mr. Shucker, instead of a solution, answers publicly as to how, say the Croatian Road and the railways as he says, I quote, we don't care when we have to pay the commitments. That was the meaning of your statement the other day on television.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23510	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Tomislav Culjak. And once again, I warn the ministers not to comment when it does not comply with the rules of procedure, the MPs say. I'm warning you one last time. Dear Representative Tomislav Culjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23511	Mr. President, President of the Croatian Government, Mr. Ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs! I would like to ask my question to Mr. Marijan Mlinarić, the Minister of the Interior. I'd like to know what's going on with the emergency call grouping project, the fire department and the police in one office under 112. I believe that the completion of this project would be of great benefit both to the citizens of Croatia and to foreign tourists who hopefully will come to Croatia in a large number of years, and does it seem that this project will soon end? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23512	Minister of the Interior, Honored Marijan Mlinaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23513	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Representative! Namely, the Law amending and supplementing the Law establishing and delirious the work of the ministries and administrative organisations of March 2004 established the State Protection and Rescue Administration and should now adopt, at this very meeting, the Law on Protection and Rescue which would determine and mean the State Administration, its tasks, which would be as the central state body of protection and rescue in disasters and major accidents. And jobs that are being promoted by the prevention system to prevent possible occurrences and reduce the consequences if disaster occurs, i.e. for timely, effective and meaningful inclusion of all participants in protection and rescue, their coordinated action and in the area affected by disasters and major accidents. In addition to the State Administration for Protection and Rescue, the second important paper introduced by this law is the creation of a legal framework for the operation of a single operational communications centre for all emergency services. So, i.e. the introduction of a single European phone call 112. It would come from, transforming this current Information Centre and uniting all emergency interventions. So emergency medical care and fire and other types of accident. And the government has just adopted a program to equip that state administration with a special helicopter unit that would, as a result, replace all the accidents that happened this summer where there was criticism that they couldn't come from individual islands, from accidents at sea, from car accidents on highways urgently translate patients from, to the nearest hospital, or the nearest clinic. Just like this, by equipping this state administration and setting up a center like this, a new one with 112 would unite all the protection and rescue services and become effective, unmistakable responsibility of each of them in particular. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23514	Representative Tomislav Culjak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23515	Well, I am pleased with this answer because I believe that the establishment of this service will be of benefit to all citizens of the Republic of Croatia as well as to all who visit the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23516	Thank you. The esteemed prisoner Furio Radin.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23517	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I refer the question to the Minister of Education, Science and Sports, or the Secretary of State, Mr Janjic. The problems of national minority schools have been being dragged for years and affecting all national minorities, including those of national minorities who may have a school organised at one better and higher level and I choose the Italian national minority in that category. That doesn't mean, however, that she and you don't have a problem. The book implementation question was asked here a few months ago by Zdenka Chuhnil pointed out the need for books for schools of national minorities to be translated. However, today we, at least as far as the Italian national minority in high schools, do not have a single translated Croatian book in Italian. So in Italian schools, Italian high schools actually teach by books and literature that we receive as donations from Italy and that we depend only on our strengths students would come with courses in schools. We were also already at the 11th month and in the 9th month we were to get agreement for part-time lecturers and there are many in the schools of national minorities because there are a lot of orientations for fewer students and new jobs that have been filled after many years. Because it's known that we're very hard to fill our jobs. In fact, these people have been working and not getting paid for the third month. The question is this, when will you get consent for such lecturers, for such teachers and for such jobs and for those new, new professors, and I say so so that everything is contained in one question, Mr. President, that you don't tell me that those are two questions, because they're not, when they're going to be able to teach using, I'm not saying with all the literature. Wait, I'm sorry! [[Thank you very much, Mr. Radin, thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23518	I can't wait for you because it's twice the time!
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23519	When will the translation be made, Mr. President, of that book?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23520	Mr. Secretary of State, please. Well, it's okay. It's just, in the time foreseen for a question, ask a question. [[We're waiting, so you can wait 10 seconds, too. Excuse me.]] State Secretary Želimir Janjic. [[Intruder: Here's a quick question!]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23521	Thank you very much, Your Honor. I can answer your question as follows, there has always been an actual translation of textbooks and it is true that the translations are missing, you well know that in the previous meeting of the Croatian Parliament, the Law on basic and high school textbooks was adopted, in which article 5 opened the possibility of the ministry ordering from publishers so-called. A small fee or a direct arrangement with them, which is not particularly rewarding to them. We have already twice invited publishers to a meeting in the ministry, and the last meeting was held a month ago where we did not discuss only what you are talking about, but we also talked about the project for Croatian literacy and the path to the desired future where we also intend to ask the publishers to print textbooks that will also be a small story. We agreed with them in principle, and in the 2005 budget, we envisaged funds for these purposes, and I hope that in the next year we will first realize this for a long time and that we will first happen to act according to Article 5. The law on textbooks for elementary and high school. This second part, i.e. the second question you have asked, relating to lecturers, to part-time lecturers and new jobs, you are well aware that throughout this year, or in the second half of the school year 2003/04. that the Ministry approved a large number of new jobs and that it significantly reduced the number of overtime hours in schools, as was our commitment. We'll get on with it, of course. Uh, since the beginning of the school year 2004/05. Indeed, it is a lot of work to record a captain in all schools in the Republic of Croatia, and believe that it is an extremely large job to agree with each director what he has the right to and what is the number of overtime hours he can count on. It's our problem, of course, that we don't have enough advisors to do this job as much as possible, but I assure you that's what this job is about, and we'll probably be done by half this month.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23522	Dear Representative Furio Radin, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23523	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'm partly pleased with the answer you gave me, Mr. Secretary of State. I just want to say one sentence, and she's next, when I went to school in the '50s, it was a lot harder times than today and all the books were translated. Maybe you should learn a little from history so you can see how it can be done. It was a much harder time and we haven't seen any translated books in 13 years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23524	Dear Representative Niko Rebic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23525	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, I ask the question to the President of the Croatian Government. Mr. Prime Minister, units of local self-government in areas of special state care were charged from 1996 to 1999 with the rapid return of the border to their homes by HABOR for the reconstruction and reconstruction of the war of damaged gravity and pressure pipelines, as well as the pump facilities, the restoration of trafostations, the construction of freeway pipelines where there was no water. All projects were led in co-operation with Croatian waters which were also an investment vehicle. These units of local self-government due to the inability to meet credit obligations are threatened by the blocking of accounts by Croatian waters, which is in line with the signed contracts. At the same time, the government of the Republic of Croatia has written off credit commitments to those units of local self-government that have committed to the same or similar projects at the World Bank. My question is: Will the Government of the Republic of Croatia assume the obligation to repay these loans to units of local self-government, thus equating them with units of local self-government that are in charge of the World Bank. A team before 80% of these funds were spent on the reconstruction and reconstruction of the war on damaged objects and other capital water and electricity infrastructures, and since it is areas of special state care, it is a great burden that is pressing these units of local self-government and, of course, preventing them from planning their budgets properly and blocking the development of these units. I think that for the Split-Dalmatia County area...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23526	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23527	Row is sized
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23528	Thank you very much, Mr. Rebic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23529	Please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23530	Prime Minister, Dr. Ivo Sanader, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23531	Mr. President, Mr. Rebic, this is a very difficult issue because it is areas of special state concern, and we are aware that these areas in the war have not been killed, killed and not only defended themselves but have defended Croatia, so the responsibility of all of us in Croatia towards these people, according to these areas is particularly great and I want to convince you that the Government is taking care of these areas. In a consistent case, I suggest that the municipalities in question send a letter to the government. We'll consider it. The state of state finances is difficult and I can't promise to deal with it at this time, but I can promise you we will certainly study it very seriously and if there is any possibility we will try to find a way for Croatia's waters to enter for the part they owe them, how much it is to enter co-ownership and thus remove the burden from, from the units of local self-government. It could be one possible way to solve it. This would help municipalities to take off a large burden of financial obligations, loans they cannot repay, and on the other hand no value is lost because then Croatian waters would enter the property of the infrastructure. In that sense, we will try to find a solution, so please pass it on to these municipalities, but let one official letter be sent to the government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23532	Representative Niko Rebic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23533	Mr. Prime Minister, I would like to express the satisfaction and gratitude of these units of local self-government because, in fact, all governments so far are aware that this is a legitimate request. It needs to be solved because there is no reason to stop in these areas and the little development that could go on. And I thank you in advance on behalf of the local self-government units.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23534	Thank you. Honorable representative Branimir Pasecky.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23535	Mr. President, I'd like to refer the question to Minister Mlinaric. I was worried about the situation in the autumn that appeared on the Adriatic, contrary to the usual increase in fires at the end of the season. So I'm interested in whether the causes of the fire are common, whether improvements have been observed lately and which one?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23536	Mr. Representative, you cannot ask that question because you have announced a completely different question.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23537	No, I don't. I announced that question.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23538	No, I don't. You announced the question to Minister Vesni Skare-Ozbolt.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23539	Okay.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23540	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23541	Can I ask a question?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23542	Yes, you can.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23543	What?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23544	You can't, you can't, because you haven't announced in accordance with the Rules of Procedure a change of question. Honorable representative William Herman.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23545	Mr. President, the presidents actually, colleagues and colleagues, here's the thirteenth question. I guess everything's gonna be okay after all. The question is about the health condition of Slavonic and Baranja. 55% is the mortality rate in Slavonia and Baranja, unlike the mortality rate, which is 52% in other parts of the country as a result of stroke and heart attack. This is therefore simply a matter of national interest because it is a matter of national health. There can be no prejudice or vanity, however, whether in one part or another, the voter was manifested in one way or another, but it is simply a matter of saying one more national interest, because in one area of the state, this is exactly the kind of thing that has happened and it has often happened. This information is from 2003. The heart of healthcare, the health situation in Slavonia and Baranja is the clinical hospital Osijek. It's a year's delay in obtaining the coronaryographers. Some stories exist to go to Shimatsu. It would say the nice name “Shimatsu”. Even if he's going, why is he waiting? And if you wait my question is brief and clear: why in this area where you need the most technology with the appropriate expertise does not go adequate investment. In fact, what's going to be for those of us who are suffering at this rate, which is the consequence of unemployment and war crimes, various circumstances, but let's focus on that. Not on the so-called savings, under quotes, because it's a national interest. It's a matter of national health. Thus, “Shimatsu = Hyndai”. Slavonia deserved a Mercedes in that sense. Don't give money to droplets...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23546	Thank you. Ask a question.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23547	Because they're similar projects.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23548	Ask a question, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23549	Please, class, let me finish.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23550	You can't finish but ask a question because you're out of time.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23551	So my question is please respond, do what is simply necessary. Are you gonna do it or not? Or you'll turn your head and say, "It's not a national interest."
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23552	Thank you very much. Vice-President, Health Minister Dr. Andrija Hebrang, please be my guest.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23553	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Your Honor, Mr. Representative, your data is warranted...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23554	My question was addressed to the prime minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23555	You can't throw Agent Herman away.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23556	It's loud and clear.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23557	You can't take the word, you don't have the word. You asked a question in writing to ask either the Prime Minister or the Deputy Prime Minister, Dr. Andrija Hebrang. ... It's you, you can't talk. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Come on, come on, please be nice. You have here whom you asked a question. Either the Prime Minister or Deputy Prime Minister Dr. Andrija Hebrang. And Dr. Andri Hebrang suits you. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23558	Thank you very much. Your honor, Mr. Representative, your question and claims are based on false premises. The duration of life and incidence of cardiovascular diseases is indeed expected in Slavonia above the Croatian average, unfortunately, but we have an end in our beautiful homeland where these results are even more tragic. The life expectancy and cardiovascular diseases are expected to be the result in the first order of life. That health care is participating with less than 10%. You can find this on the Internet under the World Health Organization, under the theme “Life example” or “The expected duration of life”. So much for that. So what's affecting you, let me just answer you to the end. It affects, above all, the lifestyles, which means in this case, the consequences of war, the way of diet, the way of life, the movement and so on. Of course, health care cannot be affected, but it can affect the overall increase in standards. As regards healthcare itself, because Osijek as the medical center of Slavonia has been the focus of our events since the end of Serbian aggression, Osijek has invested more in the hospital than in all restored Croatian hospitals together until today over 180 million kuna, and this trend has continued this government policy. And yet you've been misinformed. The coronary diagnostics device is already on the way to bidding is over, who got it I don't know, because I don't get the right to interfere in the procurement because that's what the law on procurement has determined. If you know it is indeed a higher power. Whoever got me doesn't care. He got the one the expert commission chose but I know the contract was signed that the device an ship is coming to Osijek and that the education of all personnel is under way. And it's also organized that everything is prepared to open up that new department. But what wasn't done and what was wrong, that's what's wrong is that this device will come an infertile soil. Because in the past four years, there has been no education of the proper fit, and we will soon make up for it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23559	Honorable representative William Herman, please be my guest.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23560	Mr. Prime Minister, it will obviously be necessary here for you to intervene, because the equipment seems to be coming by boat, so it means it's not coming from Europe. That apparatus you're talking about is acquired and paid and then you stopped it, you called the competition, it's true, but a year goes by and there's none of this and there's no camera. A year ago, he must have been bothering you because he's Simensov. And so whether or not I am satisfied with Mr. Prime Minister Sanader you should be dissatisfied because it is a matter of national health in this area as a critical issue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23561	Dear Representative Pejo Trječević, please be my guest.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23562	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Prime Minister, Minister, Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. I'm asking the Prime Minister Mr. Eve Sanader. The Croatian public is well-known problems and struggles to relive Sisak Željezare. We also know that the government has taken responsibility to solve this burning problem. I have to say, he hasn't done it yet. I won't say anything, but he should have. We are concerned because the closure of the Sisak Ironworks does not leave the road only mentioned so far by the press and 620 employees of full debt and credit i.e. a thousand and 600 families without existence. It's all the other companies that worked for a hardware store like Capran and other companies lying on the iron mill itself. The closure of Sisak Ironworks will close many crafts and professional schools. So not only will there be collapse in the economy of Sisak Moslavina County, but also in social and education. So, what the government is going to do today in solving this burning problem because tomorrow we think it's going to be too late. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23563	Thank you. The Prime Minister Dr. Ivo Sanader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23564	Mr. Tradčević, first of all, I share concerns not only about the state of the ironworks but also about the state of the economy in Sisdak Moslavina County. In one county that until the war of the homeland was one of the most advanced with large combinations of refinery. With Gavrilovic strong and so on. With iron. We all witnessed what happened after that, occupation, liberation, and then a state was created that was being repaired day and day. One of the problems, I am glad that Gavrilovic is very well fixed and developed. One of the problems remains the Iron One. But before I come to that, I want to take advantage of this opportunity and say very clearly on behalf of the government because there have been speculations about the refinery. The refinery goes into modernization and is guaranteed its survival. So there's definitely any speculation I want to throw away. The refinery goes into modernization. As for the hardware store. We all know that Mecelj paid and he'd been producing there for a year and a half and I think it's good, and it's good that what happened over the course of the period because the workers had work to do because they were getting paid. Now the condition is that we have secured as you know, the wages were, there was an episode more like this one unscathed episode that had nothing to do with the government about guarantees. However, salaries have been paid, on this basis guarantees for the past month and are guaranteed more therefore for all sums in 6 months. A work group has been formed in the Privatisation Photo, which has to develop a program aimed at not destroying the ironworks, and to close itself to get to this scenario you're talking about but to save the ironworks, to find a new partner to find a new solution. I'm about the optimist, and I can do my word that we'll do anything like government not to get to any waste of the hardware store, not to get into a new perspective. We've got five months, because we have, so it's a time when we have guaranteed salaries, and I hope that in those months we'll settle for the satisfaction of the workers and all of us.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23565	Representative Pejo Trječević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23566	Mr. Prime Minister, the activation of the Metzelja guarantee many say is buying time, so what you say we have time. But we in HSP think it's a waste of time. And I'll tell you why. Because in the opinion of experts, it takes six months to start manufacturing at Sisak Ironworks. So, I'm afraid, in March, when the bail is due, or the minimum guaranteeors of Mecelj. I suggest that since the problem is so great that you rush to convene a session of the Government in Sisak and put it on the agenda as a priority to solve this problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23567	Hawla. Dear Representative Ivan Jarnjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23568	Mr. President-in-Office of the Parliament, Government and members of the government, colleagues and colleagues. The government has decided to call a highway tender from Long Field to Plot. As part of Dubrovnik Split highway. But some former ministers have recently appeared in public, who are constantly raising doubts and slowing down the further course of construction of the Dubrovnik Split highway, and even giving up further construction of this direction. But also other highways in the Republic of Croatia. I'm asking Minister Calmetti's question, what about the call for tenders on other parts of that highway? It refers to Zagreb Split Dubrovnik. But also other routes of highway construction in the Republic of Croatia. In what way will these insolent ones be called because they're always talking about some sort of setup. And is she ready to do all the paperwork she needs to call those tenders? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23569	Thank you. Minister Calmeta. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23570	Thank you. All public procurement for highway construction will be launched under the public procurement law and that will be the public tender. So that's the first question. And will be called out clearly when they have all the necessary documentation needed to call the competition. But when we speak and when we ask and when you ask about this stock Long Field Panel on the Dubrovnik Split road, then I must say that the government has decided to open a tender for the construction of these shares and authorised Croatian highways to conduct this public tender and to open a public tender for the construction of these 96km extremely important and significant roads. And divided by one building and traffic logic. On three shares. Long Field of Sjevanovac 37 km, Sjeanovac Ravča 40 km. And Ravèa Ploče 19 km. There is a wide possibility for all builders, mainly Croatian reporting on either one of the shares, or on the long, or on both sides, or on all three shares. The fact is, it's a public delusion, it's a speculation, it's a call for a contest, and there's no consummates, and there's no I don't know the documentation, etc. The following is the fact that there is a strong project documentation for tendering and very precise costs, covering both routes and facilities, viaducts, bridges, equipment, installations, and even moving existing installations in these costs. Whoever deals with construction, then knows how precise this coster is when it even covers it and that.... how on the basis of such project documentation can and may call a tender for, tender for these, for building anything, in this case highway. When we talk clearly about other shares, they are prepared not to think again in accordance with certain speculations that we will not build other shares, they are also in preparation for the design and stock of the highway from Zagreb to Sisak, but are also in preparation for the design of shares 5c, so from the Hungarian border to the borders with Bosnia and Herzegovina, next to Osijek. Therefore, as soon as the project documentation is completed, as soon as everything is ready, a tender for construction will be opened for both these and other other shares, and all in line with the government's programme that will bring it to an end by the end of 2003 for the next four-year period. Therefore, the construction of highways goes equally dynamically forward and with the plan in accordance with the law, in accordance with the ropes and according to the profession. Therefore, there is no speech, I reject from this place any speculation and any, any insinuation about something being done inconsistencies, inconsistencies, and inconsistencies. We have had an example and we have been hearing lately, I don't know that Zagreb-Macelj, although it was before 2000, but to open this competition without projects, and the fact is that this competition was opened with projects and with a building permit and that this contest was then under that competition of EUR 100 million, rather than after it was called by the former government, so when the competition was cancelled, the new competition was called, that it would be cheaper, and it was 100 million more expensive than the first one was called. So this is the truth I said, and the other can be used clearly for political purposes, which I reject from the point of view and the profession and one seriousness of the business. And maybe one more sentence...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23571	Thank you very much, Minister. Thank you very much. Dear Representative Ivan Jarnjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23572	I must say that it is good for the public to learn about these plans and how the competition will be particularly important, which is according to the Public Procurement Act, which was brought here in the Croatian Parliament and which should finally be respected. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23573	Honourable representative Zvonimir Puljic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23574	I address my question to the Minister of the Interior, Mr. Mlinaric. With the road safety law, we have imposed much more stringent measures than ever before. Over 2 months have passed since the application of these measures. There's been a lot of writing in the media, mostly just one of these measures, and it seems to me, in fact, that all together could be called the appology of a good drop. I don't mind a good drop, but I'm driving, and then I get used to soft beer. I ask you to present to all of us and our public the total data recorded by statistical services during this period, about the number of accidents, to see what the effects of all the measures we have imposed by this law are.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23575	Thank you. Interior Minister Marijan Mlinaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23576	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Thank you very much, Mr. Representative, for this question. Of course, it is necessary for the Croatian public to know the results of the implementation of this law that we have passed in 20.7. and it has entered into force 20.8. You'll judge for yourself when I give you these statistics on what the effect of this law is. Namely, strict law enforcement, the presence of police on the road of already registered violations from the 7th month to the 10th month of this year is almost 50% less, a violation. So, with the same number of traffic patrols, with the same number of officers, with the same number of tests, it's 50% less violations. In an absolute number from the 7th month to the 10th month, so by the end of the 10th month the total number is 7,260 traffic accidents less. 7.260, it's almost the same in those 3 months since, so we're talking about the 7th month, when we passed the law, and when the police started warning what punishment would be if the law came into force. So 7,260 car accidents less. We know that the 6th month we ended up with +43 died more than in 6 months last year. This year, so from the 7th month to the end of the 10th month, the 90 deaths are less. 90 people died less. 341 persons were less severely injured in those three months. 341 people. 1344 people are hurt less easily. 1344. If we're talking about a matrimonial damage which is also directly reduced by a reduced number of accidents, a reduced number of traffic accidents. If we're talking about damage, for the treatment of severely and easily injured people, if we're talking about disability and not talking about these 90 deaths, means fosterer of family or children in the family, then we can tell what this direct and indirect material damage is. Unfortunately, in recent months, only one segment of this law has been most talked about, and that is the impact of alcohol on transport. We've given the Department of Technology to get rid of applications, not only what has not been guided so far, and that's up to 0.5 of the alcohol in the blood, but also the impact of drugs, the impact of drugs, the impact of fatigue and whether the person is sick, all of it has to be done because the new law prescribes it. A new application has been introduced into system 21. 10., but very quickly already backwards, retroactively update data on both alcohol and drugs and percentage, and through I say maybe within a few days or weeks we will get a plate with the impact of alcohol on transport and then the esteemed representatives will get that information to see how many alcoholics have caused traffic accidents, how many have died, how much has been injured, etc., how much material damage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23577	Thank you. Honourable representative Zvonimir Puljic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23578	Mr. Minister, first of all, I'm satisfied with the data and the effects of the measures, and then, of course, with your answer. It seems to me that if these tendencies are stabilised, we might be able to get back from a non-alcoholic beer to bevanda.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23579	Dear representative Marija Lugaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23580	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. I have a question for Mrs. Kosor. Mrs Kosor, although you are the family minister, I will not ask you anything about Minister Zuzula's family, because it is all clear here, but in the budget for this year in your ministry, funds are provided to support programmes aimed at young people worth millions and 100,000 kunas, you have not spent a single kuna, you have spent almost nothing on monitoring and promoting youth policy programmes, and on youth social participation programmes. I'm asking why you haven't done anything on these programs.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23581	Vice-President of the Government, Minister of the Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23582	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ms. Lugarić, after this question you ask me the question of which country you live in, if you live in Croatia, whether you are a representative in the Croatian Parliament or elsewhere. In fact, what you have presented about my ministry's work at the Family Administration is completely but completely untrue, and I am surprised that since the beginning of this House you have been dealing exclusively with me and the work of my ministry, that you have no better informers, namely, I do not see where you get the information that is absolutely and completely incorrect. Madam MPs, in the work of this ministry at the Family Administration, we have achieved a number of very important projects to date. I'll do it again, but I'm also asking you for the integrity of the Parliament, for the dignity of the government and the ministry that I'm headed for, don't tell the truth, because it hurts you first of all, of course it hurts those who are here, and above all to the young and the families that you're supposed to represent. All clubs, i.e. the works of all clubs, i.e. the activities of all youth clubs supported by my ministry, are 34 clubs throughout Croatia. Then, as I believe, you know, that was said, we took a number of measures in projects to combat violence among children, children, or young people. One of the latest projects is a contract with UNICEF in the fight, i.e. for a safe environment in schools. For the first time, we are even going with a new project that Croatia participates in the project with 300 thousand kuna, so we are going one step further. UNICEF is no longer helping us, but we are actively involved in UNICEF programmes. Multi-annual projects such as aid, multi-annual assistance to projects and societies "Our children" and "My friend", such as society in Opatija, etc. are also funded. Financial support to associations with programmes for children and young people of a million and 800 thousand kuna. We are also now taking part in the preparation of a major SOS project and also in co-financing of a large set that will talk about SOS projects or help in projects to combat violence among children and children. Not to mention a series of counselling centres for parents, for young people and children who open throughout Croatia. Here are representatives from Sisak-Moslavina County. Last week we opened such a single centre in Croatia Kostajnica, then in Dubrovnik, in Split, I don't know how you didn't read any of it in the paper at least. I've told you before that if you have problems with my ministry and funding different programmes and with the uninterrupted and repeating truths about how nothing is done in this ministry, that no money has been spent, I invited you Mrs. MPs to come to the ministry and we'll give you absolutely all the projects, those that are planned, those that are funded, of those programs for multi-member families for the first time in Croatia for the first time this year free textbooks, free books for families with eight and more children, it's realised in primary and secondary schools. Also computers, for the first time computers for four hundred families with eight and more children in Croatia. First time large projects for families with seven and six children in Croatia. Also developing a strategy to combat domestic violence, which is near the end, making a population policy that is near the end. All that Mrs. Representative's cost. In the list of research projects that we have done, it should, of course, take more than the time I'm scheduled to answer your question, but in the end, please don't tell the truth about any work, including my ministry. ... [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23583	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Thank you. Dear representative Marija Lugaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23584	Mrs. Kosor, young people aren't the only ones with six or seven brothers. And my informant is the government, because if what you're saying is true, it's not the correct document sent by Prime Minister Sanader, it's about the execution of the state budget and the state budget. On the other hand, this weekend you promised young people an increase in funds for young people. Since you took over the youth portfolio, you have reduced the funds for young people twice, in budgeting for this year and in budget rebalancing. And this little funding that's after your double cut for the young remains is not spent and the programs are not implemented. Do you remember any more promises of a child's extra for the students? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23585	Thank you. Dear Representative Mario Zubovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23586	Mr. President of the Parliament, Mr. Prime Minister. I would ask Mrs. Kosor, unfortunately it will be my last question in this House to her. It's about counseling apartments. We know that each family’s dwellings are thus one of the most important goals of solving their life’s problems. The newspaper also said that television shows that the apartments were often bad for defenders with many mistakes and that these people complained that they had to take apartments that had not been properly carried out and had problems with how to fix them later. My question to you would be, can you specifically answer how many apartments have been assigned to the defenders and members of their families and how have these shortcomings been solved in poorly executed apartments? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23587	Vice-President of the Government, Minister of the Jadranka Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23588	Thank you very much, Your Honor, Mr. President, Mr. Zubovic. So, as far as solving the housing problems of Croatian defenders or members of their families are concerned, I must say that this is still one of the biggest problems, i.e. the most important issues that we are trying to address in the Croatian Defence Office. Unfortunately, despite all the efforts on the waiting list, there are still a little less than 13,000 people, therefore from the very fact and the very fact that the data itself shows how many problems and how much more effort will have to be made to solve the problems of housing. I must say that we have been working really well with the ministry, led by Ms. Matulović-Dropulic, and we have successfully solved several problems since the start of this government's mandate, i.e. repairing and bringing to order the apartments that started to be built since 1998. So, the project had to perform procedures that were sometimes very difficult, so in the housing from Virovitica here recently to Maleshnica in Zagreb, where last week we assigned the keys to 99 apartments. For the time being, 300 or 301 apartments have been solved so far, I repeat, because they had to be really improved, they did not literally have half a parquet in some apartments, half a flat, badly executed windows, doors, etc. etc. So these repairs also took a long time to lose. The loan solved 652 Croatian defenders. I would also like to point out that we have stepped up all the activities in the care of 100% people with disabilities from the Homeland War, and I believe that by the end of what we talked about at the beginning of the mandate, which we announced, means that finally by the end of this year, all 100% of the people with disabilities from the Homeland War will be solved. This project continues next year. We have a list of large, I don't have time to read it, but apartments that have been taken over and completed and also a series of locations where the takeover of apartments is under way. I will note that this is about Senj, it will be good news for people who are waiting for apartments there, in Zagreb Spain and in Pula where there are really big problems with housing, especially some people who are in the settlement of Valovina where there is really great pressure that the part belonging to the Croatian Defence Ministry is solved as soon as possible. Here's the short answer to your question.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23589	Thank you. Dear Representative Mario Zubovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23590	I thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23591	Honorable representative Katarina Fuchek.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23592	Mr. President of the Parliament, Prime Minister and Mr. Minister. I will refer my question to the State Secretary at the Ministry of European Integration. For some time, the public has been guessing that because of the slowness of the state administration and because of the lack of plans and programme of funds that would be intended for Croatia from pre-accession funds, hundreds of millions of euros could be used, which would significantly raise Croatia's competitiveness, which is why it is actually the main goal of using these funds. I ask the State Secretary if she can answer more specifically about the application of certain programmes, i.e. what this area is and when the public will be more detailed and concrete about the programmes and which will be used by funds from pre-accession funds.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23593	Thank you. State Secretary at the Ministry of European Integration Marija Pecinović Buric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23594	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the esteemed Mrs. Fuchek. Thank you very much for this question, because indeed since the pre-accession strategy was published, and this was the beginning of October this year, a series of articles have appeared in public on how Croatia will not be able to use these funds within the deadlines for it. I would just repeat here, so it is three new programmes that are open in Croatia, PHARE, ISPA and SAPARD and that is the amount that is for the next two years and which is talked about 245m euros. It is indeed a great deal of resources and what is important to note, that Croatia as a candidate country now will manage these funds much more alone, so after one decentralised approach than it was before. I stress this here because this means for this Croatian government and for the ministries involved, much more work and so what you asked, which is projects, when projects will be known and how projects will be implemented is only a third of the story, because before we reach the projects, the Government has to do two important jobs. The first job is to prepare strategic documents, so for each of these three programmes there must be a strategy, that's the first part. The second part is, the government must strengthen the institutions that exist, but also form new ones, so the new institutions that will be in charge of implementing these programmes so many three ministries are very much exposed to this, there is, above all, the Ministry of Finance through which all financial flows will go. There are, of course, the Ministry of Environmental Protection and the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Tourism. What did the government do on that plan? At its meeting last week, the government adopted an action plan to implement these pre-accession funds, in which it clearly defined who, what and when it should be done on the implementation plan of these three programmes. The plan is also one regulation that will define even more detail on how the European Union funds will be used, first of all, I think of the PHARE and the CARDS and third, and I think it is also important to note here, so it is not just 245 million new ones, it is more than that amount through the CARDS that has been put forward for the Republic of Croatia, and it is also about the future of new programmes that will be available to the Republic of Croatia. So by solving this problem, by establishing institutions and procedures Croatia will also strengthen its ability to use current money through the CARDS programme and also enable Croatia to make better use of funds available to the Republic of Croatia when Croatia becomes a member of the European Union. It is also important to note that the preparations needed to start using these programmes have lasted two years for other candidate countries. We've done everything to keep our deadline as low as possible and in about a year we'll do everything others have done for two years. In order for this to be done, what the Government has done is as follows: it has established mechanisms, on the other hand, defined deadlines and, of course, other things concerning the accession of the European Union have very often been controlled by what is being carried out. So that's how much I can announce that what we all expect, and that's when the projects will be known, will come at the beginning of next year in the PHARE and ISP programmes, and for SAPARD it will only be at the end of the year, because the procedures I say will go according to the accelerated procedure, but still these procedures are taking place and in order to prepare as best as possible, we will have to have enough time at our disposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23595	Thank you to the secretary of state. Honorable representative Katarina Fuchek.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23596	I thank the Secretary of State for the comprehensive and systematic response that surely announces quality programmes and which, according to the information that has been made, will enable Croatia to make the most of the best use of these funds, and I see that deadlines are cut that there are a lot of work to be done and, in this sense, it is certain that the public will be far more sensitive to these opportunities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23597	Thank you. Dear representative Milakna Opačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23598	So my question is to Minister Primorac, since the minister is gone, Mr. Secretary of State why did you give up sexual education in schools prepared by a team of 18 doctors and scientists, and do you think that children of more quality in sexual education can educate believers than doctors and professions can do?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23599	State Secretary, Želimir Janjic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23600	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Dear Madam MPs, we haven't given up, and that's just not the way it is. I'm going to tell you now in some information why it's not like that and why maybe the information that appeared in public doesn't match what we really have in the ministry. I hope you know very well that the program... AIDS started nearly three years ago and it was a program run by the Ministry of Health, of course with the consent of the Ministry of Education and Sports in its own time and that it was a program that was still going. This ministry, therefore, the Ministry of Science of Education and Sports, is funding the programme with one amount in the Primorje-Gorski County. So that's one part. Secondly, when it comes to the program... which is also approved and it is a program that also goes. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This third program that you're talking about when we're talking about sexual education. It is not true that the ministry rejected the programme but the State Secretary, who has sent a letter to the primary school administration, noting that certain adjustments should be made to ensure that the programme is accepted. So, no matter what the possibility, the memo is gone. We now expect that according to what the secretary of state has signed, that this will be done and that it should not actually be disputed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23601	Representative Milanka Opačić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23602	So, according to what you could read in public, you did give up such sexual education in schools, solely because of the pressure of the church that opposed to entering such an approach to sexual education in parallel with religious education. I'd just like to say that the ministry will bear its share of responsibility for lack of education because right now we have 18% of sexually active students infected with chlamydia and 12% infected with HP virus. And on the other hand, 80 percent of students and 70% of parents have declared themselves on these grounds for sexual education in schools. Therefore, their will should be respected.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23603	Dear Representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23604	Thank you, Mr. President. I will refer my question to Mrs. Jadranki Kosor, still Minister. So, in some media media in the public, it is constantly trying to place the thesis that Croatian defenders from the Homeland War are actually fighters for privileges and privileges. It is clear that this thesis is incorrect and offensive for all defenders because it is from talking to them, I must say that they care first and foremost that normally they all fit in with a normal life. But most of all, they care about the achievement of that fundamental right, the right guaranteed and the Constitution. It's the right to work. Here, I want to know how many and what measures your Ministry has taken so far and what measures will be taken on the employment of Croatian defenders.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23605	Deputy Prime Minister, Minister Jadranka Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23606	Thank you very much, Mr. President. You have the right, the most important question that is always raised in the conversation with the Croatian defenders, with representatives of their associations is the question of employment, employment opportunities, and this is certainly the best way to solve many problems to the problem of post-traumatic stress disorder. Just, here, in that area we are this year, I think that, of course, more accurate data will show, maybe even make the biggest leaps. So, with 6 measures, among which I always point out, encouraging small and medium-sized entrepreneurship into the defenders and also setting up as a special and new form of employment for which defenders are very interested. So, the establishment of Croatian defenders' cooperatives. To date, 30 of them have been established exactly on the basis of the measures we have proposed. There is also a great interest, and I am pleased to point out cooperation with several major companies that we have offered and expressed our desire to participate in this and offer cooperation on the basis of the programmes we have offered. For example, it was Clara, on the basis of their proposal, that is, a joint programme, that has already opened up ten defenders, so-called "Clara". The claromats, therefore, work actively. As for cooperatives, I am, in particular, pointing out precisely Croatian defenders who have suffered from post-traumatic stress disorder. In this way, by producing from cheese to various other products, fruit growing really is the best way to achieve results in treatment. Based on these six programs, I think here you are directed to have signed one contract, for example, with Shipyard 3. May where prevalisation, prequalification, means for the people who will work there. This is how we trained 17 Croatian defenders. So, based on all these measures, I predict that the number of unemployed Croatian defenders will be at least 2 and a half thousand less by the end of the year. I note that at the beginning of this year, the number of unemployed Croatian defenders was around 27 thousand and 500. So all these programs continue. In particular, in the end, I would like to highlight cooperation with the Ministry of Labour and Economy, i.e. small and medium-sized entrepreneurship, where we have signed an agreement on the joint cooperation and financing of these Croatian defenders' projects in small and medium-sized entrepreneurship. So, encouragement and Croatian defenders based on the project and the government that goes after the fact that all possible help to those who dare to enter, here, into this world of small and medium entrepreneurship. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23607	Thank you. Dear Representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23608	I thank you for this exhaustive answer. I'm sure the Croatian defenders will be happy with what they could hear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23609	Dear Representative Antun Kapraljevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23610	Mr. President, I'd like to ask Mr. Prime Minister a question. Mr. Prime Minister, when will you replace Mr. Zuzul from the post of Foreign Minister? And why is that? There are three reasons for now. First of all, Minister Zuzul has cut off the tax on the state he loves so much, and without delay he has paid taxes to America. Secondly, Minister Zuzul was one of the participants and promoter of secret agreements with Bechtel where you tried to set up a 2 billion kuna company in addition to the competition. Thirdly, Minister Zuzul is in the classic conflict of interest because he participated in the decision of the Government to which you led, when more than 6 million kuna of taxpayers, Croatian orphanages, workers, pensioners, assigned the company to the owner whom he needed or paid to Mrs Zuzul 500 thousand kuna or half a million kuna for the value of the stakes of 10 thousand kuna. I'm asking, what else are you going to tolerate? And my question is, will you change Minister Zuzul today?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23611	Thank you. Prime Minister, Dr. Ivo Sanader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23612	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Representative Kapralevich. I will not change Minister Zuzul today, nor tomorrow as long as there are these reasons that you state. Because all three of the reasons you've listed have nothing to do with the truth. And this is all you just said, I expect Minister Zuzul to react. If I were him, I'd react because this is a slander you said. And in Croatia, regardless of what we are in the Assembly, slanders do not fall into proper behavior, which must be based on truth. All three of the things you've brought out are false, none of them true. I was talking about the first one today. The second you mentioned, Bechtel, it doesn't matter what you're talking about. It has to do with the fact that the Croatian government, which I am in charge of and which responsibility I want to act as the Croatian citizens expect from me, is nothing more, nothing less, than inherited what you, therefore the former government, because you are a member of the party that participated in the former government, did, and that is that you are part of Zagreb-Sisak, instead of that share for which there is a contract with "Bechtel" agreed that "Bechtel" will not build that share, but that you will give it another, there is a decision. In this Decision there are no condicionals, I made it here in the Croatian Parliament, therefore, there is a conclusion that I can make it to the Croatian public again, and we have made the decision on the basis of that decision, that is to say, the intention was not and nothing was signed, we have expressed our intention that, instead of the Zagreb-Sisak section based on your government's decision, we will assign them the Dugopolje-Sestanovac share. We didn't do it because we estimated that the level of public debate had come to the point that it could be a shame for all of us, we withdrew that intention, not a decision, not a signature or anything. Based on what you did. So nothing happened. I'm only sorry that the whole case didn't start building that stock, but it could have been built but it goes to the harm of all of us and I appeal to you and to all of us, first I'm going to give an example that our political conflicts, if you want and reckonings, because this deal with Zuzul, which is entirely on the wrong and above all untrue grounds, that we don't assume these accounts by national interests. This people and this country of Croatia and Croatian citizens are interested in progress in everything, not our bickering, what you said has nothing to do with the truth. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23613	Dear Representative Antun Kapraljevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23614	Normally, I'm not happy with the answer because what you said has nothing to do with the truth. If Mr. Zuzul had done what he did in America, he'd have resigned a long time ago. But since you haven't even read the law, you haven't seen the documents that bring it into conflict of interest, I'll give them to you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23615	Thank you very much. I'm setting a break to 11 and 20. ... Ms. Representatives, we are continuing to ask parliamentary questions. [[beginning not saved]] Dear Representative Vladimir Kurecic, please. Here you go, Mr. Kurecic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23617	Mr. President, I have no one to ask.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23618	Please ask a question.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23619	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. President and members of the Croatian Government, colleagues and colleagues. My representative question concerns the purchase of food products, more specifically vegetables for the needs of the Croatian Army. And I'm setting him up as defence minister to Mr. Berislav Roncevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23620	Mr. Representative, you have a second parliamentary question for Minister Petar Cobankovic. That's the question you've announced.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23621	That's not true.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23622	I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23623	That's not true.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23624	Representative Vladimir Kurečić Minister of Agriculture, etc. Petra Cobanković, programme for the development of cattle production, etc.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23625	That's not true.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23626	What?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23627	That's not true.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23628	What is this? That's the question. I'm sorry. Honorable representative Lino Cervar.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23629	Mr. President, that's not true. The question is agreed and agreed.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23630	You can't ask if it's true or it's not a mistake, I have a signed question from you with this subject. There it is, there it is. Honorable representative Lino Cervar.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23631	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Prime Minister, members of the government, colleagues and colleagues. A question for the minister, as well as a state secretary who is here for tourism, sea, transport and development of Mr. Bozidar Kalmet. Unequivocally tourism is one of the strategic economic branches and, consequently, it is of considerable importance for our country. Some point out that Croatia is unquestionably an attractive destination..
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23632	Minister Calmeta, please in the hall. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23633	Some point out that Croatia is unquestionably an attractive destination in the Mediterranean tourist sphere and that the excellent results of this year's tourist season actually generate the launch of a new development cycle, and multiple impacts do not only affect the future of tourism, but also the economy as a whole. Others, however, talk about the poor results of this year's tourist season, i.e. of different factors of bad weather, untapped accommodation units, quality of services and others. And let's be honest through the media, we haven't fully learned the real analysis of this year's tourist season without talking about other analytical indicators. Of course, there is insufficient promotion of the vision and idea of a real development model that includes the competitiveness plan of marketing to investment needs and opportunities. So, Mr. Minister, tell us the truth, so what was this year's tourist season like? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23634	Thank you. Minister of Bozidar Kalmeta, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23635	So last week we had the days of Croatian tourism event held in Cavtat and there were practically all significant tourist workers, so people from the profession and discussed three days and this season and the season of 2005, what was done this year, what was the season, etc. I said there were over a thousand people from the profession, people who represent, who work in Croatian tourism in very exhausting places. and the joint assessment of all of them was that this is indeed by all indicators so far, and when I talk about indicators I mean physical arrivals, I mean nights and I mean the value of the impact of this year's season, so all these indicators are such that it was a unique assessment that this has been the most successful tourist season since independent Croatia. What does that mean? This means that the year in tourist terms will end with 5% more arrivals than last year. Two percent more nights than last year. and with value effects from 7 to 10% more than last year. and what's also important to say is that, this season is the most successful season when we've had almost 9 million guests and we'll have by the end of the year that it's been practically without going to one significant or any major incident and that all the services, all the public services that have done their job and that there were no problems in either waiting, there was no traffic at airports, or in ports etc. In addition, another thing I have to say when we talk about this year's tourist season is that we have marketed the overall Croatian position in France, Great Britain, Ireland, the Netherlands, all of Scandinavia, and at the same time we have maintained the very good and excellent results we had last year when we talk about the biggest broadcasting market in Germany, etc. So here, with one word and one sentence, this has so far been by all indicators of economic, touristic however you want to be the most successful tourist season. and Croatia has indeed stabilized, Croatia has received an image of a safe destination and an organised tourist destination.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23636	Dear Representative Lino Cervar, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23637	Yeah, I'm happy with the answer. Only perhaps with one note, that we should talk more often and talk about the future Croatian tourist development model. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23638	Honored representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23639	Dear Mr. President, President and members of the government, colleagues and colleagues. I refer my question to the vice-presidents of the government and the minister of Ms. Jadranki Kosor. Madam Minister, when the SDP proposed the Alimentary Fund Act, you better announced that the government would propose its, surely better and smarter law. The budget is precisely because of your announcement and firm promise to secure 20 million kuna for that purpose. But by law, nothing from the fund, from spending those insurance funds, nothing. Why?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23640	Vice-President of the Government, Minister of the Adriatic, Mrs. Jadranka Kosor, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23641	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam Representative. So let me ask why such a law and why such measures have not been implemented in the past four years, so also when you were Minister of the Croatian Government? But, of course, now the situation is reversed and I'm a minister and of course I have to answer this question. It's true that the Ministry of the Family made the Alimentary Fund Act. It is also true that, given the takeover of jobs from the Ministry of Health and Social Care, what was to happen by October 1st of this year in some family matters, it is true that for the last quarter we have foreseen for the implementation of this law 20 million kuna. However, you also know well as the former justice minister that the Supreme Court, so the Supreme Court President Mr. Crnić and the Ministry of Justice asked for a delay in taking over the courts of these most sensitive family matters, as they claimed in their letters that the courts were unprepared for it. and we, that is, this Croatian Parliament has made such a decision by amending the law, that one part of the business is not delegated to the Ministry of the Family, but that it should be postponed until 2006 until the courts in one part are prepared. Therefore, as for helping single - parent families, parents and children who are from another spouse or father most often left for mercy and mercy, I must remind myself that today there are mechanisms in both the Family Law and the Penal Code, and of course we insist that these provisions are respected and that everyone is in charge of their work and that, of course, we all do as much as possible so that it is not that most unfortunately fathers avoid their obligation, pay their alimony, change their addresses and, of course, do anything that can be difficult to imagine that they would avoid their obligation to their children. Therefore, in this year I remind you that we have also helped one parent family but also family in general. At the beginning of the term of office, we returned birth benefits to the 2000 level, so all that was in the mandate of the previous government was reduced, it was also aid and one to the parents' families I repeat but also to the complete family. We also returned the possibility of using a three-year maternity leave for mothers who have twins and more than three children, made several other measures in the field of natal policy or promoting a natal policy such as a provision, an amended provision in the POS Act where families with three and more children are delayed that possibility of participating directly with 15% of the participation at the beginning. So that's just one piece and one sequence of measures. And as for the alimony fund, it remains as I told you. The law is prepared. All mechanisms still exist today to help families or mothers and children who are most often threatened and, of course, eventually once again ask you a question. Why wasn't all this realized in the term of the last government, why do you insist on asking this question today even though it could have been resolved long ago?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23642	Thank you. Honored representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23643	It's clear, dear Madam Minister, that all she has is a lamentation but no alimony.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23644	Honorable representative Carmela Caparin.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23645	Thank you very much. Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, Croatian Government, members of the government, colleagues and colleagues! I refer my question to the Minister of Economy, Mr. Vukelic. The fact is that the economy has been claiming for years that education does not ask for needs. On the other hand, education claims that there is no information about the needs of the economy. The discrepancy is defined on several levels. The non-compliance of the programme with the needs of the economy, and the non-compliance of the number of students completing individual programmes with the demand for personnel in the labour market and the non-compliance of acquired knowledge and skills with the requirements of the economy. The dynamics of the labour market in recent years clearly indicate the disharmony of supply and demand but also primarily from the position of knowledge and skills. The level of education of the unemployed at the Croatian Employment Service is currently like this. 23.9% with a high school with four years and a high school, 2.7% with grade I higher school and professional studies, 3.9% with college, academy, master's and PhD, 6.8% without school, unfinished primary school, 22.4% with primary school and 40.3% with secondary school with an interest of up to three years and a school for KV and VKV workers. My question is, will the educational structure also be in line with the needs of the economy and the Croatian Employment Institute for the Needed Profiles?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23646	Economy Minister Branko Vukelic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23647	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliamentarians, this issue is one of the most important and I would say strategic issues when it comes to the economy and the competitiveness of our economy as a prerequisite for a good, equal competition in European and global markets. First of all, education and level of education and workers but also therefore and management of our companies is very important and important and therefore the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship signed two key agreements this year. The first was the beginning of this year of the agreement that we signed together with the Croatian Chamber of crafts and the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports and this agreement is for 57 professions, professional professions, so I would say for young people who will either be in craft workshops at the end of the day, or in companies with concrete interests. So, we have defined educational programs, educational programs that have been introduced by the greatest work in this school year, and for the next school year all 57 professional professions are planned. It is very important that the profile of these students, young people from high schools, be such that it meets the needs of our economy craftsmen as a whole. Another important agreement is the agreement of the Ministry of Labour and Entrepreneurship with the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports and it is about cooperation I would say to the participation of education and science in production, that is, what you have said is the need for educational programmes of all levels, so both high school and higher education to be coordinated according to the needs of the economy, but I also believe that we will succeed for the next year and quotas, registration quotas and in secondary schools and our colleges to be defined and harmonised according to the needs of the economy, because I repeat our economy is clearly focused on the introduction of new technologies, as I would say raising the level of knowledge and education of all those involved in the economy and the important precondition is one concept, one agreement between these two ministries but and all other institutions that are important for the economy, for those people who from our educational institutions and schools, therefore, medium and high outcomes are exactly what our economy should be. I believe that for the next school year, it will be through these quotas and through the educational programmes that our economies have never managed so far in our country, which is to affect both quotas and the school education system directly.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23648	Honorable representative Carmela Caparin.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23649	Thank you very much. I am pleased with the answer but I believe that education in the future will not be tromical and will also follow market and economy requirements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23650	Dear Representative Zdenko Antesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23651	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honored members of the government, colleagues and colleagues! I'd like to ask Minister Bozidar Calmetti.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23652	Please speak louder, that's the problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23653	Dear Mr. President, honourable members of the government! I'd like to ask Mr. Minister Bozidar Calmetti. Namely, the highway-building project launched in the mandate of the last government is ending. By the beginning of the 2005 tourist season, a complete Split-Zagreb stock should be placed on the market. However, by building and releasing these shares, one significant tourist region, which is the island of Rab, the island of Pag and the northern Croatian coast remains traffic-insulated. In addition, we are witnessing terrible accidents that occur on the part of the river-Zagreb peninsula, so it often becomes the highway of death instead of the highway of life. The question is when will the construction of a full profile of the rest of the Rijeka-Zagreb highway begin? And when will the construction of the planned highway of Rijeka-Yellow Lokva and mainly the tunnels below the Vratnik that would connect this region to the network of modern highways?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23654	Thank you. Minister of Bozidar Kalmeta, come in!
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23655	Thank you. Here I first have to say that 33 km on the highway from Zagreb to Split and the Pirovac-Vrpovlje section will be on the road by summer, including the bridge via Krka, and that 6 km of tunnels will also be on the road through Kapela by summer, which will say that as planned by next summer we will have a free highway by the next summer without the need to get off it or to climb again. And that's what I mean, the importance of it doesn't even have to be answered. The full profile of Rijeka-Zagreb, a stock of Yellow Lokva towards Senj, i.e. according to Rijeka, as well as access routes that are in the state's control, which are state roads and which are in state roads, will all be proposed and included in the next four-year programme of construction of Croatian highways and in the next construction of state roads which, when answering only one of the previous questions, the government will adopt by the end of the year. A whole series of activities is also planned on state roads, which will connect individual highway hubs with certain places, i.e. cities. So in that part, I hope and confident he'll be pleased.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23656	Dear Representative Željko Antešić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23657	Thank you very much, with all due respect. Namely, I did not get an answer to the question about when to start works on building a full profile of Rijeka-Zagreb highway, as well as on the construction of this section of Rijeka-Yellow Lokva, so I would ask for a written answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23658	Thank you. Dear Representative Ivan Drmic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23659	Dear Prime Minister, the Honorable President of the Parliament, Mr Ministers and Ministers, fellow Members and colleagues. I would have one question for Mr. Peter Cobankovic, Minister of Agriculture. Dear Mr. Minister, you have recently announced ambitious projects to encourage the economy, but peasants still do not know the conditions or whether these programs are ready for today. I ask Mr. Minister what is involved in the programme to encourage the development of bovine animals, and at what stage is the implementation of this programme, and where can interested people be most fully informed about this subject? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23660	Thank you. Minister of Agriculture Petar Cobankovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23661	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Your Honor, Your Honor, Your Honor, I'll start at the end. I can say that we have reached all assumptions and that the program, so the development of bovine animals can begin. What have we done? We've appointed committees! Therefore, all interested parties may report to the centres, the district centres of the agricultural advisory services, and they shall be responsible for accepting the request and the first filter related to the decision on the eligibility of the request. Then all the collected requirements come to the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy where there is a central commission which all the established requirements forward directly to HBOR and HBOR, in accordance with earlier arrangements, has a direct line for lending of this programme. I must also point out that at the last meeting of the Government we have adopted a guarantee programme by HAMAG and that for the first time in, since the existence of the HAMAG agency, the HAMAG Guarantee Agency has meant for small and medium enterprises that we have included in that agency the monitoring of the programme from agriculture. Therefore, for the monitoring and insurance of credit funds for the implementation of this programme, HAMAG will issue 50% of the guarantees on any approved HBOR credit. So I can say that all assumptions are created to begin with the realization of this program. I would like to emphasise that the cattle programme, or rather the development of cattle production for us is an extremely significant programme, it is in the function of increasing our production, it is also in the function of increasing self-sufficiency in the part of meat and milk production. And I would also like to stress that milk is one of the most sensitive products related to the European Union and that it is very important for us to increase milk production during this period so that we can have as much production quota for milk as possible later on. In this context, I would also like to emphasise the importance of the development of bovine animals, not only in the function of meat and milk production but also, as an area, it will also increase the need for increased livestock production and thus increase the production of our basic cereals. So that's one round project. Also, I can now announce a project to develop pigmeat, which is also in the function of increasing meat production. And these are projects that will protect us from excessive imports because normally for those products for which we do not have self-sufficiency in our own production normally, there is a need for imports at that time but unfortunately then imports also have non-quality products coming in. So, the basic intensity is to increase our own production, create conditions for our production to be competitive primarily on the domestic market, then meet the needs of our tourism market and then any surpluses that we have and that we can perform.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23662	Dear Representative Ivan Drmic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23663	It's a pleasure to hear that this program is ready. I hope that, as soon as possible, it will come to life because it is not only important to improve the standards of our farmers for the development of agriculture but I hope that it will help and continue the trend of reducing imports into our economy because we all know that beef is one of the most important items on the list of products imported into our economy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23664	Thank you. Honorable representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23665	Your Honor, Mr. President, gentlemen of the government, I would like to ask the Prime Minister the question. The deadline for making the Law in the pension fund expired on 9 July. The list of assets, the debt returns stock, should have been completed 2. 11 this year.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23666	Mr. Caine,
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23667	That's what it says, that's what it says.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23668	Mr. Cain!
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23669	Yeah, yeah.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23670	You signed a parliamentary question relating to the Road Safety Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23671	I didn't.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23672	This is your signature and this is your question!
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23673	That's maybe, that's what you've had since the last time!
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23674	No! No! I have your representative's question.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23675	It can't be, I didn't write it!
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23676	Then who is it? Did I write it?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23677	That might be the last time... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23678	You have that question asked and that's the question.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23679	That's not true, Mr. President!
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23680	Thank you very much. It's a question you signed yourself.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23681	Give it to me, show me!
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23682	Subject matter of the economy, representation issue Agent IDS club. [[Intruder: E, and alternative.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23683	It's an alternative to the other one.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23684	There's no alternative.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23685	Read up there!
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23686	Nothing has alternative, Mr. Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23687	What do you mean, it's gone? Let me see him!
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23688	There's nothing alternative about Mr. Cain! There's no alternative question! Dear Representative Franjo Arabovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23689	How? Well, here's a nice writing, economy area, privatisation, portfolio of the Croatian Privatisation Fund, I ask the President and Vice-President of the Government of the Republic of Croatia alternatively!!- I'm sorry. Catastrophasic effects for the economy by applying a 0,0 promill clause, alternatively!
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23690	Alternative! ... No alternative questions asked [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Yes, no, Mr. Cain. [[No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, ……]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23691	It says nice, I'm asking you to let me ask that question!
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23692	Easy, easy, Mr. Cain!
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23693	To give me that question!
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23694	Mr. Cain, Rules of Procedure, the Rules of Procedure have been resolved and every MP knows it very well, and you know it or should know that the question can be asked one, short and clear. Not alternative questions. ... In the future, you will be asked a question in the future, but in the future, stick to the Rules of Procedure. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23695	So once again, honored gentlemen of the MPs, members of the government. The deadline for drawing up the pension fund law expired on 9 July. The list of assets of the debt recovery shares was to be completed on 2.11.2004. Under the law, the fund should live by the beginning of 2005. But the pensioners should be able to start discussing their interests at the earliest five years since the founding of the fund. The IDS is also afraid of turning this fund into a total sale mechanism for Croatia, to privatise it through HEP, Hydrogen, Croatian forests and so on because it has, because these companies have a developmental and social function. If the pensioners can start to dispose of their shares for five years, that means they won't get a single kuna during this government. So I ask the government: if this one, next year in 2005, increases the budget by 4 to 5 billion kuna, wouldn't it be fairer, more logical to make a commitment to the pensioners. For example, it means eight years from the budget rather than some imaginary shares.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23696	Is this a question about the Croatian Privatisation Fund? For privatisation? ... Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Prime Minister, Dr. Ivo Sanader, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23697	Okay, it's about the important subject, so here's my answer. Croatia faces one major trauma, which is a debt to pensioners. It's a problem that not only my government is facing but also the former governments. Together with our partners from the Croatian Pensions Party, we have found a way to solve this trauma and free Croatia from these traumas. The question was also for us: should we, do we have money in the state budget to return directly to cash, cash? If that would be great. However, such a state of public finances is simply not. The second question was what you said. Can we go to the bonds? So when a clear decision is made first of all, when the debt is calculated because it is still ahead of the Croatian Pension Insurance Office, the debt needs to be calculated, how much each, on each pensioner's waste, and when the sum finally comes up, then the question is whether we can do it to the bonds. We were thinking about it, Mr. Agent Cain, but we said it would be exactly the road that would be disastrously difficult because it would mean a new public debt, and you know, we all know together what a public debt is, what an external debt and everything else. So we went this way. We think it's a good way to go and we think there won't be any words like you're afraid of IDS for no reason. For no reason are you afraid that it will be sold out in the privatisation of a good company, that tourist or agricultural land, real estate and so on will be sold out. But we also want to say, on the other hand, that if we want this fund, the special fund to repay the pensioners to fulfill its function at some point, then we can't even give in that sense the commercial, economic "bofl" goods than we really have to give good shares. Shares of good companies to get into that fund. Shares of good companies, but also real estate. That's what we're working on. We work together with our partners, the Croatian Retirement Party. We want as Government first of all to be aware of the material position of the pensioners. We want to improve it. This is also witnessed by an increase in pensions by 4% that happened just 2 months ago, which was felt directly in the pockets of our pensioners, and we want through this fund, a special fund to settle this great trauma in Croatian society.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23698	Agent Damir Cain, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23699	Alternatively. I'm not completely satisfied. I object to the privatisation of large, public enterprises. IDS is convinced that if the gross social product grows at a rate of 4% per year. If next year's budget is higher by 4 billion kuna, then it wouldn't be impossible this year to separate 500 million from the budget, 500 million kuna. In 2006, the budget will increase by 10 billion kuna compared to 2004. It's possible to single out one tenth of the money, one billion kuna. In 2007, it will be more than 15 billion kuna compared to this year. It is possible to allocate a billion-and-a-half kuna to a larger one, and so for 8 years, by 2012, when the budget will be higher by 40 to 50 billion kuna than this year, and the year to allocate 5 billion kuna, and we can, through such a form, settle 20 billion kuna for pensioners as long as, with, with, in fact, money, it is speculated that the government's commitment is based on the Constitutional Court's decision to those 750 thousand citizens of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23700	Thank you. Dear Representative Franjo Arabovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23701	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Prime Minister of the Croatian Government, Dr. Sanader, ladies and gentlemen. I'd like to ask Secretary of State Nevia Zetic. As a former athlete, it's logical to impose the become, to ask a question about the Law of Sports. Since I'm being directed to the Sports Act at the very end of the adoption, I think we should answer just one thing that interests me. This is: what does this Sport Act bring about high education in schools and high school education? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23702	State Secretary Nevio Šetić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23703	Thank you, Mr. President, Your Honor. I thank you for this question because our Ministry has been working intensively on this proposal for months. I can tell you that so far more discussions have been held throughout Croatia, from Zagreb, Osijek, Split and here at the University of Zagreb and with the Croatian Olympic Committee, but also here in the Croatian Parliament, this Bill Proposal was discussed in the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports. I want to say specifically to this question of yours. There was a big mess, but now that we're looking at the area of high school education and student education, then this Sport Act brings up a big newspaper. First of all, we propose to establish a Croatian school sports alliance and thus the Croatian student sports alliance to rise to that level, so that sport in schools can be better organised, coordinated and planned. I also want to say that a trail of legal solutions will be able to provide a new programme, the content of secondary education, and especially in those schools that have sports departments. The product of this law will also make it more orderly in student, student sport and we are now making records of these knowledge of all sports associations, and also in the state budget will be clearly defined in the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports of those items relating to student sport. Here's what would be short of what this law and what it would bring itself. And on the other hand, I think we lack a development strategy, especially student and university sports, and this is what we expect in 2005. Here in one sentence, more order of competition will be introduced and that the Croatian nation that is traditionally powerful in sport will get these segments both in high school and in student sport an organised system.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23704	Dear Representative Franjo Arabovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23705	Thank you very much. From your mouths to God's ears.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23706	Dear Representative Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23707	Thank you very much, Mr. President, there is now a problem. I was looking at the Rules of Procedure with no solution what if the Minister to whom the issue was announced 24 hours earlier left the Assembly at the time of Minister Calmeta's current morning. And the question isn't about the portfolio. It's about the minister. So I'm asking if I could ask that question that I thought Minister Calmeti could ask the prime minister. With your permission.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23708	You can ask the question you put on the Minister of Tourism, Transport and Development if he is not present ask someone else from the Government.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23709	Thank you very much. Then I will ask my question to Mr. Prime Minister Prime Minister Sanader. During last session of the Parliament, defending and explaining the proposal of members of the Council of the Croatian Telecommunications Agency, Minister Kalmeta took responsibility for the work of the Council in his personal and in the name of the Government, as all objections to the possible conflict of interest among the two members of the five magnificent rejected the claim that it was only hypothetical doubts. The five members of the council that the government has proposed and Minister Kalmeta defends in this House have not decided to award a concession to a third mobile phone operator. Also, the same council annulled the competition and did not call a re-competition, but a new second subject of competition in which only a photo of those who can pass through the competition was denied the state budget of around 2 billion kunas 200 possible new jobs. While T-comu and VIP were created around 220m euros in profits because the auctions would not fall 30% as what a third operator had to do. My question is: Will you call on Minister Kalmet to resign his promises in this assembly for this reason, or will you propose a resolution of the members of the Council who have made such a decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23710	The Prime Minister. Just before that, one addition to the Council had been appointed by the Council of the Telecommunications Agency in accordance with the law on a proposal from the Government. This council submits reports to the Croatian Parliament. And this question is a question from the Council of Not Government. But in some ways well, you indirectly reshape him. Please, Prime Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23711	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Representative Lesar. I have nothing more to add to what the President of the Parliament has said. The Croatian government has proposed members of the Council, the Croatian Parliament has elected them, and they correspond to the Croatian Assembly. Any interference by the Government as executive authorities in the work of the Council would be against the law. The Council is an independent regulatory body. It is the legislation of the Republic of Croatia and we cannot interfere. I personally believe that, and I am convinced of that since the council has signed the tender that it said that by 21 December 22nd, it will be decided by the third GSM operator personally that what you said is incorrect. And I am convinced that the budget and how it will profit from calling for a new competition. Because if it's gonna be a few weeks later or not, it's probably gonna be a few weeks later, and I agree with you. But then the budget will not be damaged, but will be improved by what I heard, because it is also about having to compete with those who offer UMTS. I therefore believe that all together was my opinion on which he has the right not as Prime Minister but as an ordinary Croatian citizen. That we made too much noise together. And who tells us that any body in Croatia that is the principle that can be defended, that any body if there is one offer must offer to accept it if it is bad. I will stand always and everywhere who will say it loud and clear, no matter who it is, no matter who it is, this offer is bad. And if the offer is bad, then it's wrong and I think we should ask ourselves what it was that the offer was accepted. Therefore, there will be delays from a month and a half to about 20 December following the announcement should be made, I look at it with as much attention as you do and I expect that a decision will be made and that it will come into the budget, which you and I agree should not damage the budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23712	Dear Representative Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23713	Mr. Prime Minister is probably not familiar with the phonogram of the Parliament. I said the responsibility was taken to make a decision on the third operator in the competition that was under way that day. I personally expressed my suspicions about the contest that was in progress at the time when we appointed the council. We have expressed our suspicion that the new composition of the Council will not make such a decision. I didn't ask to get involved in the work. Save it, God, because it would really be against the law. Every day, the disposal of a third operator to an existing two operators brings a million kuna into the pocket of Croatian citizens more than they do according to regulations and that we have a third operator should. A million kunas a day. Two months is 60 million kuna. And that information wasn't made up by me. So it's about a million kunas a day of interest profit in the existing one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23714	Honorable representativeplatimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23715	Dear President, members of the government. It's only half a year until the local elections. I'm asking the prime minister on behalf of a large number of citizens. Will the elections in May allow their mayors to choose exactly what you promised. As you promised a high degree of fiscal decentralisation of cities, municipalities and counties. And when the government will finally refer to the Parliament a draft law on local self-government, so that citizens know when to choose what powers local self-government units will have.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23716	The Prime Minister Dr. Ivo Sanader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23717	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I also ask for the understanding that after this question, I will have to go on a boat that explores the seashore on the Komarna Pelješac Bridge. It's a short day today to get there, so I'm asking for an understanding of what I'm going to do here 20 minutes early. Mr. Mr. Gristle, I am also personally the president of the party's supporter of direct democracy. And direct elections for the mayoral mayor. In June 2000, we had proposed a law as an opposition that did not pass with you, with you, while b or in the past term you were four Prime Ministers. And this same question that I'm about to answer now concerns the previous question of Mr. Representative. You had four years to pass this law. You didn't bring it in and now you're asking us and we're doing it and we want to bring it along with you. There is a working group that explores what are the best models for Croatia. How to choose. How to choose and resolve the situation when we have one mayor, and we have a council of city councils or municipal councils from other parties. Which may be an opposition to the mayor. That's the question we want. There are solutions in the world, there are solutions in the West, we hold a task force working on it that still has not found the right solution suitable for Croatia. Therefore, if you have anyone I call everyone, because that is one, it should be one party consensus, but I also suggest that you have had four years of time to pass that law. You could've brought it. You didn't bring it. We work on it we want to bring it in, but we want to bring it in so that it is the best solution for Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23718	Thank you. Honorable representativeplatimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23719	Well, I'm perfectly pleased with your response, Your Honor, Prime Minister. Now it's finally clear to all citizens that they've been double-crossed. They will not be able to choose their mayors, commissioners and mayors directly in May as you promised. I don't know if there should be any specific model for Croatia, because this direct choice model has most countries in the European Union and all Croatian neighbours, all Croatian neighbours, so I'm not sure whether to invent hot water. But I don't think there's a real reason why there's no model, I think the real reason is that HDZ doesn't respond, because then it wouldn't have happened to... local deputies like it did recently in Koprivnica-Crying County.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23720	At the extended Presidency of the Parliament with all clubs and representatives and with your club, we are in charge that the culture in the Croatian Parliament will be at the level at which we should be, so the used words "false", "false" and similar is not part of the gentlmen agreement. ... Because that kind of speech then causes another kind of answer. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] Dear Representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23721	Dear President-in-Office of the Parliament, I have purposed my question as it is written to you there by Minister Shuker, and Minister Shuker is gone, although the issue has been announced 24 hours earlier, although it is known who he will be asked and from which sphere, ministers seem to have more important obligations than to participate in the work of the Parliament. Now there's no Prime Minister either, so we can't even ask the prime minister, so I'm asking the secretary of state who apparently left Minister Schuker here to answer the parliamentary questions. Although the Government of the Republic of Croatia has not yet set out the draft budget for next year, the draft budget is given to the IMF Mission for its stay here in Croatia. Say, State Secretary, tell the citizens of this country and the representatives who are these citizens, who have been elected here in the Parliament, as the IMF says about this budget. Are they satisfied? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23722	Thank you. State Secretary Marina Galić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23723	Thanks, Lip. Your Honor, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. I'm extremely glad that you asked this question, which then gives me the opportunity to say that you are wrong in front of this House. The draft budget was neither given to the IMF nor to any other international institution because it had not been fully and fully discussed and adopted by the Croatian government, and until that happens, it will not be shared with any other institution. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23724	Dear Representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23725	Some state secretary stuff, there's no point in denying it. The IMF's here, the mission's here, they're coming to the government tomorrow. Besides that, not you, but the government in its stand by arrangement has committed to show the IMF the budget by the end of September. So you're not gonna tell me you didn't meet that obligation from the stand by the arrangement. ... Well, you're a little late, but it's obvious that the commitments you've made in the stand by the arrangement have been accepted... [[The speaker is off, you can't hear it.]] And that just means that we're going to bring here the budget that the IMF approves. [[You can't hear the speaker.]] [[I'd like you to tell me...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23726	Please, please, Secretary of State. ... Honorable representative of Ante Markov, please. [[(Speakers speaking out loud) You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23727	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honored members of the government, colleagues and colleagues. I've assigned the question to the Prime Minister, but I don't think there's gonna be a problem. There is Resolute Minister Cobankovic, so he will be able to answer this question. In fact, the existing Marine Fisheries Act is very clear and said that it is not possible for foreign citizens to fish in Croatian territorial waters, i.e. they cannot participate in economic fishing. The draft of a new bill that has caused great confusion and anxiety among fishermen, but also for those who are seriously considering Croatia's future, says that this provision that prevented foreign citizens from fishing in the Croatian territorial sea would move away, and that it would be possible for foreign citizens to establish foreign-owned companies and companies in Croatia and in such a way as to be able to fish fully in Croatian territorial waters, which means that our part of the Adriatic that is still preserved and which has its quality resources would be exposed to multiple stronger potentials that only one example have Italian sides and that would destroy Croatia's fisheries in just a few months, because the establishment of commercial companies, and as capital would be imports of ships and equipment that they have in the past, could practically destroy our entire part of the territorial sea and thus destroy Croatian fisheries. The question is: Is it possible and is it true that such a draft will be found first in the Government and then in the Croatian Parliament, because it is unacceptable equal to all fishermen, equal to all associations, and I believe the same from all of us together?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23728	Thank you. Minister Cobankovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23729	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Your Honor, I will answer you very briefly. This is just a draft law that is not yet finished, which is under discussion and which will be forwarded to other ministries and other authorities of the state administration regarding and seeking certain indications. I am aware that there are certain disagreements and disagreements in certain provisions of that law, but I am also responsible for saying that we will make maximum efforts to protect local fishermen, because we are aware of the current situation, we are also aware of the state of the fish on our part of the coast, and for these reasons, we will make every effort to maintain certain, certain opportunities for the protection of local fishermen. So, the bill's not finished, he's only in the debate, he's going to take opinions in other ministries and bodies of the state administration that are responsible for that part, and then we're going to find a proposal to go to the government.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23730	Thank you. Honorable representative of Ante Markov.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23731	Mr. Minister. Me and the Croatian public, and all those who follow us, would have been far more pleased if you had removed the possibility of even installing the possibility to change the existing law in a way that foreign citizens can be owners and founders of companies that I will be able to fish in the Croatian Adriatic. If you're thinking about the possibility of not issuing new privileges, it doesn't matter because the new benefits won't change anything. The advantage in Italy costs 300 thousand euros, in Croatia costs nothing, so they will be able to buy it very easily and very easily because they are not limited to us. Therefore, let us not close our eyes, this is a very serious problem and the only real answer is the decision of the Croatian government that such a possibility will simply not be found in the new law and that this will be the first and important exception Croatia will seek in negotiations with the European Union.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23732	Honorable representative Anton Perusko.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23733	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, gentlemen of the Government, colleagues and colleagues. My question was intended for Prime Minister Sanader, but I understand that there are other obligations, and I can especially understand if he went to sea, because we are, to this I am particularly sensitive. However, my question is so simple that every member of the government can answer it, so I leave the members of the government present to decide who will answer. In his opening speech in this assembly, Prime Minister Sanader announced the government's framework programme and other activities for the term of office he also announced the fight against corruption, which I personally believe, and everyone in this assembly was pleased to accept and the Croatian public accepted, of course, the fact that corruption is the evil that gnaws the tissues of Croatian society. However, during your term of office, corruption has increased during the term of office of the government in Croatia. Croatia fell to 67th of the 147 countries monitored for corruption on a scale of the infamous, from 57th to 67th. I was going to ask Prime Minister Sanader, does he feel responsible for this devastating fact? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23734	Deputy Prime Minister, Andrija Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23735	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The Honored Mr. MP has asked the wrong question, because for the information you have stated, Prime Minister Sanader cannot be responsible since it refers to the previous period. Therefore, he was not the prime minister at the time. However, the following should be said for the substantive answer. That corruption in Croatia is a tradition from some times that we all know and remember well, and this government has taken very energetic steps to begin to solve corruption systematically. In fact, corruption is a consequence and it blooms where bureaucracy is very complex and where you have to cross to achieve a goal of ten and more steps and you are doomed to leave something little to each one. That's why, as you know, this government has joined and made a decision to simplify all bureaucratic procedures, especially in the economy where corruption flourishes most. And with this in connection we have established an agency that will in one place enable the obtaining of all documents, first of those simple in the establishment of the company, then those concerning the housewives, confirmation of the residence, etc. And when all this is realized that we started, and it will be realized in the next two to three years, so by the end of this government's mandate, the potential for corruption will be reduced to a minimum and the indicators will then be much better than they are today.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23736	Thank you. Honorable representative Anton Perusko.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23737	Of course I'm not happy, but I’d expect about that answer, because I knew that the Deputy Prime Minister would look for an alibi. However, it applies to the period of these 10 months and this data is correct, and in other words, how do you think to fight corruption, you have proved for example. through the Telecommunications Council, through the Commission to prevent conflicts of interest, for which we have indicated in time that they cannot be independent, which is confirmed by the last shameful decisions of the Telecommunications Council. And yet how do you plan to fight corruption, because Prime Minister Sanader made public yesterday and today protecting Minister Zuzul, who has been at least involved in some corrupt affairs in Croatia lately. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23738	counterpart Antušić, you are expressing satisfaction or dissatisfaction with the answer to the question you have the right to state the reasons for that. But what I've told you before, we've reached a consensus on the fact that we don't judge in advance, that we don't prejudge, that we don't insult, that we don't make accusations and verdicts about involvement in corruption scandals in a way that is not an unequivocal truth, and that based on some indications, we can't claim and accuse people, anyone in this way. Dear MP, Vice-President Djurdja Adlesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23739	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'd like to ask the Minister of Defense, Mr. Roncevic. I remember probably as many Croatian citizens as the sharp assessment of the situation in the Armed Forces fell here, even mentioned the term "disasterous". Since we MPs carry part of the responsibility because we choose the minister and decide on the state budget. I'm asking the minister to answer my representative's question. Since the start of the reconstruction to this day, according to some data, about 11,000 people, members of the Armed Forces have left the army, mostly people with war résumés, people who were in the Homeland War. While, some data says about 5,000 people in the administration, people with not very modest salaries. Some in a joke say if a thousand of them went to sick leave, no one would notice. So, Mr. Minister, please tell me if there are measures to reduce this number of huge administrations in order to save in the administration when we had to give up those who were in the Homeland War. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23740	Thank you very much. I apologize to Honorable Representative Zdenko Antesic because I made a replacement a little while ago. Please accept my apology. Defence Minister Berislav Roncevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23741	Mr. President of the Parliament, I am pleased that after last session, you have actively accepted your role as parliamentary representative and are interested in the reconstruction of the Croatian Armed Forces. I'll tell you, it's not just about reshuffleing the Armed Forces, it's all about redecorating the Moreh. Don't confuse the category "administration" and the terms "actual military person" and "state official" and "settler". That's two categories. This year's allocation plan, adopted by the Croatian Government, which provides for financial resources, provides for 4000 880 people, of which thousands of civil servants and tenants. This program has been implemented in paid severances, in isolated people this year. I'll tell you the situation at 13.10, that's the information I have in front of me. Three thousand 67 people have been singled out, and as far as the severance payments are concerned, 3,979 has been paid because just over 900 severances in this financial year have been paid out for people who left the system since 31.12.2003. Normally, as part of the reconstruction of our defence and security system, we plan to separate those activities from the system that are not classical military, real estate management by, hopefully, the adopted Law on Protection and Rescue is designed to set out employees of the Information and Market Centres and think about the possibility of singleing out our Air and Technical Service just in order to agree with the trade unions to allow these people to share their capacity as an offer and market apart from the need to maintain aircraft and techniques of Croatian Air Force. We're normally doing another program, we've seen overlapping certain activities in the MORH administrations and in the Central Command, and we're working as part of the reconstruction and final appearance of our armed forces and the entire morh, normally we're going to cut this down like you say to the administrative section. The detachment programme does not cover only the active military personnel.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23742	Thank you. Dear MP, Vice-President Djurdja Adlesic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23743	Thank you very much, Mr. President. First of all, I must express my dissatisfaction with the way the minister answered my question, because it seems to have a need to teach MPs. That's not what ministers do. And with regard to the redesign program and the MORH, I think it's fine and I hope the minister won't forget those numbers when the MPs ask for them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23744	Thank you. Dear Representative Zlatko Tomcic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23745	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I refer the question to the President of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and who will answer some of the members of the Government decide for themselves. I believe that we agree that in the process of entering the Republic of Croatia into the European Union there is a whole series of obstacles and restrictions. I'll only set out two possible limits. First, a democratic adjustment. In obtaining candidate status, a provision has been incorporated that the European Union may suspend negotiations with the Republic of Croatia if significant deviations in democratic practice arise in relation to European Union standards. This is a difficult provision, given that we have recently been burdened with recorded non-democracy procedures and practices, we can talk about relations in the Parliament, the practice in the Parliament, the inaccuracies of public speech, political exclusion, political shifts and staffing, political pressures and similar elements. Secondly, unpreparedness for negotiations with the European Union. As far as I am a parliamentary representative of information, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has not yet established a negotiating strategy and a negotiating team, and negotiations can happen in a few months. The negotiating strategy and competence of the negotiating team depends on the success of the negotiations. The success of the negotiations is, in general, measured by the number and quality of the exemption in certain chapters to the specific deadline needed to adjust certain elements of the Croatian economy or other segments. We have fresh examples of the accession of 10 new countries to the European Union that have done these negotiations very successfully. The failure of negotiations can create a negative public court on the whole process of bringing the Republic of Croatia closer and desirable to the European Union. Consequences can get their definitive form on a referendum that can be negative. I'm asking a question. What and when does the Government intend to undertake that these two possible restrictions do not happen in the worst possible way by interrupting negotiations with the Republic of Croatia or by failing a referendum? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23746	Thank you. Foreign Minister Miomir Zuzul.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23747	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Representative, first of all, I would like to conclude that your opening statement, and then the question, is not entirely correct. There are no special conditions for the Republic of Croatia. The provision refers to all candidates now and in the future, and in fact de facto applied to all candidates who had participated before. So, note, there is no specific provision that could break negotiations with the Republic of Croatia that does not exist for all other candidate countries, for now and for the future. As for the government's preparation, firstly, the government has made a whole series of intensive preparations. Among other things, you mention 10 newly admitted members, we have studied a very good way in which they have negotiated both schemes and structures. After all, the government has made a work proposal, and will soon come out with the appointments of working party leaders. We fully agree that it is very good to make a good strategy for negotiations, to choose good negotiators and to ultimately depend on the success of the negotiations. As for the referendum, we are far from the referendum as you well know. However, the fact is that the presentation of some of the items already accepted in the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, which was accepted in the previous assembly, was negotiated by the last government, when it now sets out different parliamentary deputies with views on the contrary, then it certainly does not contribute to notifying the public or to the success of the referendum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23748	Dear Representative Zlatko Tomcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23749	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Of course I'm not happy with this general response. I expected at the very least that the foreign minister would in the most serious way deny possible black hunches and possible black scenarios in a way that would tell me, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has established a negotiating strategy and will present it in this House. Secondly, we will protect national interests in the course of negotiations and allow for the adaptation of the Croatian economy and other sectors to European Union standards. Third, they'll tell me, we've got a competent negotiating team. Since I have not heard any of this, of course I have to be dissatisfied and I can only point out that this is the situation a few months before the start of the negotiations for Croatia is becoming dangerous. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23750	Thank you. The chairman of the Committee on Local and Regional Self-Government, Mr. Representative Zvonimir Mršić, moved to the meeting he scheduled today at 13.30 p.m. in the Chamber of Janko Draskovic, 202. Dear representative, Alenka Koshasha Chichin-Shain.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23751	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Mr. President, my question was directed towards Mr. Prime Minister. However, as he is gone, I allow anyone from the government to respond, I suppose it should be the Deputy Prime Minister or perhaps some other of the resolution ministers if he feels invited to this topic. At a meeting of the government on 27.10.2004, Croatian highways were granted a call for tendering for the construction of three shares of the Dupolje-Ploče highway and before the adoption of a construction plan that the government will bring by the end of the year. This will arrange for the realisation of highway construction in the length of half of the total route to Dubrovnik and for those shares to be negotiated under the following circumstances. Stock Dupolje-Sestanovac, 37km long with finished main projects and costs, at the level of the building permit. b) for the Sjevanovac-Ravce stock in the length of 40 kilometers and the Ravca-Ploče stock in the length of 20 kilometers, the competitions are called and the business is negotiated on the basis of ideas projects. In the mandate of previous governments, HDZ governments until 2000, such a model of highway construction was agreed with Bechtel as well as the construction of Dubrovnik Bridge with Walter Bau and in both cases there was a significant increase in the cost of construction. At Bechtel, the price rose from 635 to $980 million, and in the case of the Dubrovnik Bridge, it was even 100% increase, from DEM 35 million to DEM 67 million. In such non-transparent, directly without the contracted transactions, part of the overall bad picture is also the fact of the contract without adequate documentation, so my question is. Why today's Government is making a decision on the concession of public tendering to the bidder, which will be based on incomplete documentation, opening up the risk of a subsequent important acquisition, and there is no objective reason for this because the construction cannot be started anyway, without completing technical documentation and resulting building permit in the way that this is done for the Dupolje-Sestanovac stock. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23752	Thank you. Deputy Prime Minister, Andrija Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23753	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Your Honor, Madam Representative, you well know the dynamics of the tendering and what public procurement law requires all of this to be done, how long it takes. Since we lost one construction season, the government intended to call a tender and parallel in time until the paperwork was completed, to perform advances that would not decide who would be elected. Therefore, we will synchronise the time of completion of the documentation for these shares, with the dynamics of the adoption of competitions. And that's why it all started with spring, so we don't lose another construction season. As for respecting prices and the Public Procurement Act, there are competent institutions. I deeply believe this government won't do it wrong.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23754	Thank you. Honorable representative of Alenko Kosisa Chichin-Shain.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23755	Thank you. Unfortunately, I'm not happy with the answer, and I'd like to have it delivered in writing. But before you did, you'd only comment on one thing. The government's decision clearly shows that for the length of the highway the government intends to build in its term of office by the end of 2007, and according to the 2005-2008 programme, the 37km stake is from Dugopol to Sjeanovac alone. The rest, the remaining 60km to Ploč as well as the rest of the shares to Dubrovnik, this government leaves to another future government. Since our government has built up to 200 kilometers a year, it is indisputable that the remaining 60 kilometers would be completed by 2008 and when it would have started in 2007, but provided there is complete technical documentation with all the research works of geomechanical and other elements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23756	Thank you. Dear Representative Zeljko Pecek.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23757	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I was planning on asking the prime minister, but since he's not here, I'm asking the Deputy Prime Minister for an answer, Mrs. Jadranka Kosor. In the area of Virovitica-Podravska County lately HDZ, despite the fact that there is no majority in the City Council of the City of Virovitica, it has been acting in power, and in Slatina the city's budget has not been rebalanced. Such successes, under quotes, have been achieved in an already known and common way, by pressing and threatening individual doctors who, after 3 years, change party colors or become independent council members. So recently, two councilors in the Councils of the cities of Virovitica and Slatina have changed their party uniform. What is common to all of them is to work in the state service, more specifically in the Tax Administration, the Police and the Croatian Forests. I note that the pressures and threats are being made in institutions and companies for which you, as Deputy Prime Minister, are directly or indirectly responsible. And that's why they're not the only ones who suffer. It's the whole family. The same situation is similar with the opposition commissioners in the municipalities in the area as the IRS has been visiting intensively lately. I've only known two examples in the last two weeks, one strange control with two such officers at work, it's known why. Dear Madam Vice President, I would like to know if you are familiar with the above examples, whether you approve them and whether you are ready to stop this kind of pressure, especially because they do not give us any results in the long term that the examples of Požega, Metkovic and some other environments give us.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23758	Deputy Prime Minister, Minister, Mrs Jadranka Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23759	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Mr. Pecek, none of what you're saying in your question is familiar. So, neither about the pressures, nor about any other problems. I was recently in Virovitica for the first sports meeting of pensioners from all over Croatia. I know the City of Virovitica took part in the organization, and I know that everything was going well. So, I don't have any information about the problems you're talking about, especially the pressures, so anyone who wouldn't be the same party uniform as you mention, as you have authority. Therefore, I, here, take the obligation to examine what is going on, to inform you of the allegations from your question and the written way. And as for the tax administration's visit, we have to be prepared for all because people who exercise power at any level must be prepared for surveillance. I think you agree, however, with regard to pressure, here, I am obliged to examine what is both the Deputy Prime Minister and as party official to inform you of this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23760	Dear Representative Zeljko Pecek.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23761	Thank you very much. I'm happy with the answer. I am also interested in the written reply, but after consulting and talking with competent persons working in the ministries, i.e. in the Croatian Forests. I'm surprised you didn't hear about this situation, especially because you started a presidential campaign in Virovitica and it's common knowledge. It's a few press conferences that have been alerted to exactly these cases. I once again note 4, 5 council members were excluded because of pressure after 3, 4, 10 years of work in one party hastily turned into independent or another party. Probably not voluntarily, so that's why I'm asking you to send me a written reply just after the interview and the conversation. And I would ask you to stand up for this practice to stop because it is generally known to last in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23762	Honorable representative Maria Byte.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23763	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. I ask Mr. Branko Vukelic, Minister of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship. In mid-September of this year, inspectors of the Mining Inspectorate of the State Inspectorate for the lack of a mining concession over 8 years closed the quarry of the company "The Stone Ingrad" in Vepovo and Velika. Because there was no concession that the owner was obliged to make so that he could operate in accordance with the law. It is incomprehensible that it did not happen even though it owns 77.5% of the company. The final accounts of the company published in "Prijedni Vesnik" for 2001, 2002 and 2003 showed profits at 13, 14 and 15 million kuna per year. Despite the company's profits is in extremely large debt to suppliers and to the state, which particularly endangers the social security of workers and their families, it is an irregular payment of salaries and field allowances, contributions to health, pension, etc. The top of the ownership structure of the company is said to be the social insensitivity of the Croatian government, thus trying to cover up all the business weaknesses of the company for which they are directly responsible. So I ask, can the Croatian Government do anything in such a situation and how to protect the social security of workers and their families? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23764	Thank you. Dear Minister Branko Vukelic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23765	Thank you, Mr. President. Here, I want to say right away, it's not about, therefore, any social insensitivity of the government, and it's also not about the public because it was from these ranks of the company's administration and any accusations that it was about political accounts. So it's not about either one or the other. It's just that this company has illegally exploited two quarrys for years. And that debt to the state has increased over 30 million kunas, and at the same time as you yourself said, that company has paid more than 40 million kuna in the last 3 years. Clearly, then, someone wanted to fail to meet their obligations against the state, while at the same time working, so either doing business and paying off their profits. What's important to say is that the government and the Ministry of Economy are certainly very interested in the people who work in these quarrys. Since there's raw materials and it's quality, and since that certain number of people aren't working right now. What we can say, the way to go is to take away that, if, therefore, "the stone ingrad" does not meet its obligation to pay these claims to the state, then the only possible way is to take away those two exploitation fields and call a new concession tender for that company and companies that will clearly take over both the workers and all the obligations resulting from the previous exploitation of these fields. And that's how we're going to go because finally this company, this company and these quarryes are very important for the city of Požega and Požega-Slavon County, and I think it's unquestionable to talk about it, but it's also very important and important for each of us to point out clearly that we can't exploit mineral raw materials without paying a commitment to the state and so no one can do business either, or this company.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23766	Honorable representative Maria Byte.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23767	Thank you very much, Mr. President and Mr. Secretary. We understand the complexity of the problem when it comes to the role of the government when it comes to a private firm, especially when it is a non-contractual business, but the objective of my question was an attempt to help employees, so thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23768	Thank you. And the last respected representative, Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23769	Mr. President-in-Office of the Croatian Parliament, gentlemen of the Vice-Presidents, the esteemed Minister. My question is for Mr. Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy, Mr. Peter Cobankovic. Since this year's defence season ended in significant failures, and they are justified by the arguments of poor preparation made in previous years, I ask the question at which stage is the defence plan from the fight for the coming year in accordance with the Law and when will the plan be adopted? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23770	Minister Petar Cobankovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23771	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Your Honor. I can answer you very briefly. The operational defence plan for 2005 is over, it is addressed to the government and will be discussed by the government and we expect it to adopt it. That's what I announced, I think at last session in the current class there were similar questions, I said that the defense against the fight is being prepared and in order to begin preparation in this year so that we can do all the necessary advances that stand before us. I'd like to stress that according to this plan of operating defense against the fight we've divided the entire space in three periods, the first period is from 1 January to 30 April, it's so-called. the preparatory period, when tenders are discussed when the funds are obtained and the like. Then there's the operational defense against the fight, it's so-called. the season, from 1 May to 30 September. And then comes the third period where it practically crashes and completes the work. When I talk about the 2005 defence plan, I would like to point out in particular that a specification of the necessary funds has also been implemented, and among other things that provides for the purchase of 8 thousand pieces of rockets somewhere, to prepare for the purchase of a 60,000-litre solution for generators, also that new launchers and fire extinguishers will be installed, some of which will be replaced but a total of 75 of them, 40 new launchers and new generators will still be placed in 70 places. So it goes into a more comprehensive defense of the fight, that it's a combined system with anti-urban missiles that will be used maximum because we've also increased the number of launch ramps and defenses against the ground-floor generators. I would also like to stress that according to this plan, both the spectral financial needs have been made and, accordingly, it will be necessary to provide 31 million kuna for one full defence against the fight. When we compare the data that we have at our disposal regarding the amount of defence against the damage data that was due to the fight and during this year, we come to the conclusion that, in accordance with the law still in force and in force, it is the Law on the Defence of the Fight System that we are actively preparing ourselves to carry out the defense against the fight in 2005 and I expect that we will have significantly better results than in previous years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23772	Dear Representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23773	Mr. President, I thank Mr. Minister for his broad response and for the preparation that was made for next year, I hope that our peasants too will be pleased. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23774	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the current morning is over, the government is not required to answer a single question. We continue at 15:00 with the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts report in 2003, Report on Pension Markets in the Republic of Croatia 2003, on the work of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute and on teaching. Interrupt session until 3:00. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we will proceed with the session. It's on the agenda. A report on the work of the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts in 2003 In accordance with the Law on the Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts, a report was submitted. The discussion was conducted by the Committee on Education, Science and Culture. You received the reports at the session. The Government of the Republic of Croatia delivered an opinion. I would like a representative of the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts of Academy Cvetnić to further explain the report. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23776	Dear Mr. President, the honourable representatives of the Croatian Parliament! Allow me to point on behalf of the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts in the shortest lines to the intensive activity of the Academy in the past year. On the day of 31.12. last year, the Croatian Academy had 140 regular members, then 136 correspondence members mostly from abroad and 92 co-workers. In May of this year, the selection of new members increased slightly or slightly in all categories of membership. During the past year, the academy held two regular congregations, one constituency and one session. The election assembly, held on 27 November 2003, selected a new management of the Academy, consisting of presidents, two vice-presidents and secretary-generals, nine class secretaries and five members of the presidency. On 29 April 2003, at the ceremony held on the occasion of the Academy of Eight Scientists and Artists, awards were awarded to the Croatian Academy for the year 2002, and a memorial was discovered in the Academy atrium to the founders of the Croatian Academy Foundation, where the Assembly of the Republic of Croatia was first held. The academy chairmanship held seven sessions in the past year to draw conclusions from its work. Among other things, an initiative for the establishment of an academy at the Bjelovar Institute has been adopted, which completes a network of numerous academic and research units outside Zagreb, in particular ten. During 2003 activities continued to materially strengthen the Croatian Academy's foundation, which primarily thanks to regular support from the state budget at the end of last year had financial assets amounting to 20 million kuna. The total amount provided for in support of trustary purposes in 2003 amounted to one million kuna and was allocated to 53 projects. On this occasion, I would like to thank Dr. Joseph Torbar for his recent parliamentary representative, who last year became the first individual to be the founder of the foundation. The international co-operation of the Croatian Academy last year was highly developed and varied. The academy has agreements on scientific cooperation with a number of academys to keep you from getting tired, there are more. Last year, our academy became members of the European Science Foundation and talks are under way on the conclusion of a co-operation agreement with several other foreign universities. During the last year, works were continued on the research and publishing project of Croatia and Europe so that the entire construction of the third volume saw the light of the day at the beginning of 2004 was dedicated. In addition, preparatory works for the French and English editions of the second volume were published. During 2003, a new fire hydrant network was built and an idea project was developed to restore and edit the summer home and other facilities in the historical part of the park. A number of academia facilities have carried out work to protect and maintain the same and prepare for the start of new works. With this in mind, I will only mention that during last year, the process of obtaining a permit for reconstruction and re-use of a chemical laboratory in the academy library, i.e. the town in the south of the Croatian Academy Palace in Strossmayer Square. Unfortunately, planned work is lagging behind because the chemical laboratory has not yet moved to a new location on Horvatovac. The scientific and artistic activities of the Academy took place primarily in nine classes and seventeen scientific and research units. The Academy has eight such units in Zagreb and nine and now ten units outside Zagreb and two units based in Dubrovnik, Zadar, Rijeka, Varazdin, Osijek, Vinkovci and Trsten. The scientific and research units of the Academy during 2003 worked on 44 scientific projects. It's about what happened. parent projects, therefore, on projects whose research is mainly carried out in the Academy and whose main researchers are exclusively or regularly members of the Academy or other scientists from the Academy's institutions and institutes. There are other forms of scientific work at the academy. So last year in the academy, there were 14 scientific councils, and I'm not tired of counting you. In these councils and bodies work not only members of the academy but scientists and experts outside the academy and abroad. Gliptotheka, Cabinet Graphics, Strossmayer's gallery of old masters and the Croatian Museum of Architecture operates within the museum-galery activities of the Academy. In 2003, Gliptotheque exhibited scientific activities with 16 exhibitions, 7 promotions and presentations and 11 other events such as concerts, charity auctions, presentations, etc. All the exhibitions were accompanied by appropriate catalogues. 8 exhibitions are also organised in the Chamber of Graphics with appropriate catalogues and 8 correctional CDs are published. Strossmayer's gallery of old masters was reopened on 4 February last year on the anniversary of the birth of Josip Juraj Strossmayer, founder of the Academy and Gallery of Old Masters with some modified image layout. In X. the hall at the end of the year opened an exhibition of donations from the statue of Koste Angeli Radovani "Portreti academia". The Croatian Museum of Architecture during 2003 held four exhibitions accompanied by appropriate catalogues. Last 2003, the Academy paid special attention to the publishing activity, as it can thus show its work and work by its members. From its draft to the end of 2003, the academy published a total of 4000 189 volumes of different editions and 105 volumes were published in last year 2003. Among these titles are 40 books, chambers and monuments, 44 volumes of magazines, 19 catalogues of art exhibitions, one note and one chamber, one CD by Krčić, etc. The total volume of all 105 titles is 17 thousand 944 printed pages and the total coverage of all titles is 63,000 670 copies. The total funds held by the Academy last year amounted to 59 million 887 thousand and 993 kuna and were at the funding level for 2002. This amount is mostly covered by State budgets, then by other sources of funding provided by the Ministry of Science and Technology, the Ministry of Culture, the Office for Culture, the County, the cities, other legal individuals and the funds achieved by the Academy's own activities. Finally, I thank you for the opportunity to introduce you in the shortest lines to the Croatian Academy in the last year with a request that you fully support the proposal of the Assembly Committee on Education, Science and Culture as a parent body proposing to the Croatian Assembly to accept the report on the work of the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts in 2003, including the proposal to leave the Croatian Academy at the disposal of non-consumptive funds approved by the 2003 budget, since it is the means to fund the long-term research project titled "Croatia and Europe". Thank you for your attention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23777	Thank you very much. Does the Committee's rapporteur want it? Yeah. President of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture, Honored Representative Petar Selem, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23778	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished guests, colleagues and colleagues. The Committee on Education, Science and Culture of the Croatian Parliament at its session of 14 September this year discussed the report on the work of the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts in the last year, along with the report, we received this very extensive publication of the Croatian Academy of Chronicles and this whole activity was described in a very thorough and very documented way. In the discussion on the Committee, it was found that the activities of the Academy were truly impressive, it is a foundation, a reward, scientific gatherings, scientific projects, 44 scientific projects were said in a very wide range of Croatia, from Ormitofauna in the European ecological network, to a project led by academic Bilančić, Croatia history in 1990 to 2000, which in some ways also connects with our project Memorial of the Centre of Homeland War. In addition to all these projects, it is clear that there is a high scientific cry, but I would in particular warn at two moments which seems significant to me and that on the Committee in some way has been singled out. It is a question of the declaration of knowledge, which represents actually one point in which the academy also connects itself with the projection of Croatian knowledge as a condition of Croatian survival and progress. And the second question is language. In the situation in which the Croatian language is located, I would say one constant and permanent threat, the academy's activity in this direction and the academic will and desire to create an organism that would really follow and in some way react to situations that occur in the Croatian language not only in literature but in the Croatian language in general, it seems to me that every one is absolutely commendable. The remaining question was what was mentioned in the proposal, or rapporteurs, on the issue of this unsolicited money from last year, which should actually be returned under the legal provisions. However, it is the big project "Croatia-Europe" which has already been shown in three impressive volumes, Croatia's Middle Ages, Croatia's Renaissance goes baroque etc. And that's one varking progress, one part... one part that is constantly going on and which clearly cannot be segmented by age, but which must have its continuity. [[/the speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, the Committee also fully agrees that and proposes that these funds be left to the Academy so that the project, which is significant for Croatian culture, could be further developed as we hear that the editions in the foreign languages of the same impressive project already published in the Croatian language are now coming. So, I say, given all this in the light of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture, the Croatian Parliament proposes to accept the report on the work of the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts in 2003 and this special, this special moment, i.e. that the funds already activated on this big project do not have to be returned, but rather left to the Academy to continue the project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23779	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. HSP's club, the esteemed representative of Slaven Letica. He's gone. He's losing his word. The HDZ Club is a respected representative of Kresimir Cosic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23780	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Here are a few words on the report on the work of the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts in 2003. It's a report that certainly deserves our attention. At the meetings of the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts during 2003, various topics were discussed, and one of them I would say certainly deserves special attention. I would say more attention, special attention because of the importance of the document, which is a declaration of knowledge and the application of knowledge. I'll talk about it a little bit later. But before that, a few words about the report itself that was delivered to the Croatian Parliament 10 pages. The following facts may be singled out among the basic membership data of the Academy. It's warning, but it's facts. Last year, there was a further increase in the life of regular members of the Academy, and the average profit of all academics at the end of 2003 was almost 74 years. Therefore, the upcoming elections, as it says in this document, need to take due account of the presidency's recommendation not to propose candidates over 70 years of age for new regular members. In the last year, 14 members of the Academy died, regular and four correspondence members. A few words about the financial report. The total funds the Academy had last year amounted to only 59 million kuna and were at the level of the 2002 funds. This amount mostly includes funds secured from the state budget 80.3% and almost only 3.8% of the funds are achieved by the Academy's own activity, which I certainly don't think is enough, given the importance and character of the institution. So here are a few words about an important document that took place in 2003, and which I would say in the Croatian public, in the Croatian media almost undetected, I certainly don't think it's good, because many other far less important things deserve unacceptable media attention. The declaration of knowledge quoted among other things as saying: "The Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts considers its duty to ring the alarm". Because of the situation in which Croatian society is in view of knowledge and its application about the development of Croatian society and to point to perspectives. The bells ring at the alarm, bells coming from the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts almost undetected in Croatian media, the Croatian Parliament when it is discussed empty. I quote some important parts of the declaration of knowledge: “The differences in knowledge and its application become the main factors that share developed countries from undeveloped, rich in poor, high standard of living from low.” Nothing new but something that is important, something that is true, something to emphasize, something to be warned about. Because it won't be good if the same findings are repeated in the future without appropriate changes. Croatia needs to learn from a circle of less developed countries and prevent its current, technological backlog from deepening. And we see this technological backlog every day and in the Croatian Parliament. It was trivial this morning when we were supposed to vote. As a third-year student of the Faculty of Electrical Engineering, I'd say, I'd make a better system than the one we have in the mood today. It warns further this document. This lagging and lack of knowledge at all is reflected in the difficulties that once-successful companies with a dramatic decline in export production have experienced, then in the serious shortcomings of the state apparatus with outdated forms of the organisation of operation. I quote the Declaration of Knowledge, the restructuring of the economy and the revitalisation of society at a higher level of quality and with a higher share of knowledge becomes an existential issue. A few words in the document are also related to the assessment of today's position of the Republic of Croatia. Today's position in Croatia, the report says, is marked by lagging behind not only in terms of the world's most developed countries but also in comparison with the countries of Central and Eastern Europe, and this is warning. Because many have a completely wrong feeling that it's not true. This lagging obviously and not only in economic results but also in all other areas of achieving and increasing the quality of life. It is referred to by demographic, economic indicators as well as concrete many other weaknesses. Furthermore, what I would like to point out and it stands in this important, I would say to a very important document, referring to the next fact. Others, I quote, are: “The other countries in the technological and scientific revolution that took place were able to find a way of accelerated development which unfortunately failed Croatia. In the 1980s, they were in the former state, marked by a full stagnation of the economy, which unfortunately continued with a setback in the 1990s. It should also be recalled that war destruction in the Republic of Croatia destroyed about 30% of production capacities and that the full 10 years in the Republic of Croatia in the 80s to 90s on the development and creation of production infrastructure and the adoption of new technologies did nothing. I'll warn you, and maybe I'll remind you of one fact. I had opportunities in 1980 to work on a document called a strategy for the development of electronic industry in the Republic of Croatia in 1980, 2000. Not only did what the document intended not happen but unfortunately today 20 years later or something more in the electronics industry of the Republic of Croatia no longer exist, those who worked such a document such as Riz, Tesla, Končar etc. Some of the results of these facts worry! During the period 1992 to 2001, exports of goods from the Republic of Croatia almost did not increase. He's oscinated everything maybe a few percent. In 1992, 4 billion 445 million, 2001, 4 billion 666 million. This is an extremely modest result under globalisation because world exports almost doubled during that time period, and many countries have significantly increased their exports. The declaration as an important document requires a way out of that state. The question has been asked how to get out of this invisible state and some answers are offered and I would point out some of them and then comment. Everything starts from being able to use the people we have better, to motivate young people, and to involve them as much as possible in all the places we should be. The document also warns of some facts, less than 10% of registered scientists in the Republic of Croatia annually announces at the global average of about one part of 2 years. Furthermore, what is important, investment in research and development work in the Republic of Croatia is at the bottom of investment in Europe and this insufficient money, I especially stress the most wrong investment. The scientific community of the Republic of Croatia very often, which, by nature, should seek to recognise, maintain, reward quality, consists of a large number of people who do not belong to it according to the world's criteria. The gravity of this document, and in particular in its final section, is related to the application of knowledge. The number of scientists employed in the direct economy, and this certainly has a significant impact on the competitiveness of the economy, transfer and use of knowledge in the United States is 80%, in the European Union 52%, in Slovenia 10% and in Croatia, perhaps a few percent. And it's also an important diagnostic parameter. And I would say, this document really gives one quality as it popularly says due diligence or long-term analysis of the Croatian economy and Croatian society as a whole. The appropriate measures should be encouraged to find a place in domestic production organisations as many young experts as possible, there are almost no more of them there today. I don't need to be long, but here, let me conclude, I'd say the following, it says in this document as well. Today, namely the situation of the Republic of Croatia critical, economic lagging out over the past 20 years, and war suffering and aggression and its consequences, besides before the unfavourable democratic movements and economics, have caused the situation in which we are today, unfortunately as a society. Certainly the academy's alarm bells are ringing, here as a public there is no, I said the assembly is empty, but I would conclude with the next finding on behalf of the HDZ Club of Representatives. Certainly full support for this document, this important document of the HDZ Club of Representatives, but certainly it would not be good if we did not propose anything other than support. And in that sense, I'll be free to say the following. This document is printed in just 500 copies, it should do everything possible to print this document in at least 50,000 copies and distribute in Croatian society because it is one of the best diagnosiss of modern Croatian and problem facing not only the Croatian economy but also Croatian society as a whole. And I certainly think that this document, Mr. President, deserves special attention and I will be free to propose that on a declaration, on knowledge, on Croatia based on knowledge and knowledge application, perhaps already at one of the next meetings of the Croatian Parliament, at the beginning of next year a thematic debate is held that this Declaration of Knowledge and the application of knowledge as an incentive does not remain at this stage in which it is located. It must be recognised, it must be encouraged and I would say to the joint organised efforts of both the Croatian government and other institutions and with full support of the Croatian Parliament, all that is important for the promotion of knowledge and application of knowledge in the Croatian economy may be formulated in one, I would say important, perhaps ambitious, perhaps too ambitious law on knowledge and the application of knowledge in modernising, restructuring and increasing the competitiveness of the Croatian economy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23781	Please. This is a debate on the report on the work of the Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts in 2003. HNS representative club, PGS, respected deputy president Vesna Pusic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23782	Thank you, Mr. President, gentlemen of the Academy, colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian Academy of Science and Arts is one and must be one of the key institutions of our civilized national identity. A colleague, Cosic, before me, spoke extensively on behalf of the HDZ Club about the text of Croatia based on knowledge or the Academy Declaration of Knowledge based on the study "Croatia based on knowledge". I will therefore not enter here on behalf of the HNS Club PGS in details of this study, which we also consider to be of particular quality. I want to point to another moment. HAZU is often considered to be a kind of decent attitude of the whole society toward its aged scientists. Something that is necessary, which every country has, but which is actually more of a kind of symbolic institution than an institution that really participates in considering current topics and formulating development strategies. It seems to me that the text "Croatia is based on knowledge" is one text that shows that it is not. Among the most modern if you will, among the most adventurous ideas in Croatia's development strategies and economic as well as any other or more precise strategy in the first order of economic and then any other development is the idea that education science, knowledge is the main instrument of successful development of Croatia and the successful finding of its own segment on the common market, primarily labour force in the future European Union and Croatia in the future in the European Union. Where Croatia can be competitive is not even a low-skilled workforce but it is just people with higher education, people who are educated in science and higher education and therefore not only a question of quality development but also the issue of Croatia's economic survival in the future. And from that point of view, the Declaration of Knowledge or the text of the study "Croatia based on knowledge" shows that it is possible from an institution like the Academy, that it is possible to come out one text that is absolutely on, in the first line if you want what is the modern concept of Croatia's development and that there is something besides the pitetate to learn, to use and include the work done at the Academy in what is the strategy and the formation and formulation of the Croatian development strategy in the future. I support the absolutely idea that has arisen here to organise the debate and here in the Assembly using, of course, our own, our own reflections on the use of knowledge as an instrument for the development of Croatia, or as a central and thorough strategy for Croatia's development in the decades ahead. I would like to point out another point mentioned in this report, and it concerns scientific research activities that are seen from the report not only take place in the academy's development, so where there are written extraordinary and regular members of the Academy but also in institutions, centres, laboratories and cabinets, other words in those places where younger scientists are sitting. In places where people who have not sat in their entire career have earned the status of academics, who still have years of scientific and research work, and from that point of view of the academy can be the precious place where energy, curiosity and creativity of younger scientists are combined with the experience and wide knowledge of people who have spent their whole life devoted to certain scientific disciplines and who can help with this experience and knowledge, create a positive environment for younger scientists who work in institutions and centres of the Academy. And if it is necessary to support some activity more than it has ever been done within the Academy, we believe that it is precisely an activity that is concentrated in the institutions and centres of the Academy and that enables a combination of scientific experience with youthful scientific curiosity. And if you look at this report, you will see that among other things in the academy institutions and centres 30 and 33 scientific recruits have been received, that number should certainly be expanded and combined with assistants and younger people in science precisely to take advantage of the legacy that unfortunately in Croatia, since we know the educational structure is not such that we can throw ourselves at it. The legacy that in the academic classes in terms of scientific experience and knowledge exists and that it would live in projects that these, which these younger scientists also work on, at academy centres and institutions. The third moment at the PGS Club seemed important to us was the fact that in the past year, so 2003. HAZU became members of the European Foundation for Science. As you know during this period, Croatia has also established the National Foundation for Science, and in this respect I think that a stronger and Croatian National Foundation for Science and Academy should be linked and seen to what extent this Academy is connected with the European Science Foundation is a possible channel for better and closer cooperation between our National Foundation and the European Foundation. Based on these three or four points, I think it is important to establish that it would be good to have occasional forms of closer cooperation between the HAZU, so between the Croatian Academy of Science and Art and the Parliament. Amongst the individual parliamentary committees, what is particularly recently formed a mixed parliamentary committee that will work together with the members, i.e. the particularly non-minimated committee of the European Parliament. To monitor and facilitate Croatia's accession to the European Union and all negotiations-related processes. As we know in this process, among other things, it will be very detailed on 29 specific, professional, scientific areas to a large extent. For those who need greater knowledge, a more detailed scientific background could be qualified to define the Croatian position and interests in these 29 areas. And that Croatia's interests and position in negotiations on the 29 areas could be adequately defended. In this area, the Assembly must use different scientific institutions as scientific support in my opinion. but primarily people in the Croatian Academy of Science and Art, because there are also seductions and classes that deal specifically with certain areas related to these negotiations. So, what we are largely or most of us are not exploited for is exactly what the academy is best teamed for, which is the scientific basis for scientific support so that in a political process we can qualify and defend Croatian interests. And on behalf of the HNS-PGS Club, we suggest that we form a joint working body that will cooperate with our work of a mixed parliamentary committee that will work with the Committee of the European Parliament, just to get that basis offered by the Academy. And in order to realise, on the other hand, some of what is defined among other things in the academic declaration of knowledge, i.e., the Academy Study of Croatia based on knowledge. Using the use of scientific knowledge to apply cumulative knowledge in the practical realization of national interests. The HNS – PGS will support the PR glazing of the HAZU work report and will certainly support both the interpretation and the application that came from HAZU to leave it with the funds remaining from 2003 in 2004. But also to consider the possibility in the next budget to consider the possibility of increasing the amount financed by a scientific researcher's activities right in academy institutions, centres and laboratories. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23783	Thank you very much. SDP club respected representative Antun Vujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23784	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. Here is a report on the work of the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts is certainly a good reason to actually touch the points of the role of the Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts and the role of everything it represents. This role is certainly great, and it is certainly always in relation to certain historical opportunities in which the Academy works. It should not be forgotten, and it should probably be derived from this when we consider the meaning of the reports and the Prespectives of the Academy that it is therefore one of those central national institutions that was built in Croatia in half of the 19th standing together with the university with the archives with the Society of Librarians, the queen of Croatia and so on, at one point, an institutional construction of Croatia, in a proportion in which the same Croatia did not have a state building. And throughout that period, so starting with Kukuljevic and beyond, the Academy had one outstanding role she had never played, so it was never possible to completely separate her from her total national construction. Which of course at one point looked one way in another moment in another way. Today, however, it seems to be a question that we need to ask again, and which I certainly believe is being asked and that it will be resolved. This means that those institutions that are not within one moment of changing opportunities and state and political codes, therefore the first elected Croatian independence, the second one of an extremely innovative and demanding concept of today's knowledge, science, art and culture of development, which makes their role more adequate. This is certainly a very complex task and, of course, it must be on one side left to autonomy, the Academy itself, because the Assembly in this respect should not give appropriate suggestions, but it is certainly not wrong to discuss all the elements in which the Academy can perform and its historical and undead in order to say the historical tasks it has. The report itself lists a whole series of activities of the Academy. These are all mostly standard activities and there should certainly be no dispute over it and the SDP club will also support the report. What I think ours should perhaps put at the heart of a new modernisation of academics from the perspective of therefore modern requirements, it is perhaps a new work at the Academy's new openness to all segmental scientific, artistic and cultural initiatives, which are necessarily different today than they may have been before. Openness plus criteria, I think that's the key if two termins themselves could sum up what public demands towards the Academy might be those two terms. Openness in a way that has already been practiced in some parts, primarily towards younger ones, predominantly towards a whole series of recruits that the Academy is now using and where they can develop themselves. Plus the criteria. Exclusion criteria. Because few people in our society other than, of course, universities and science institutes can express in such a synthetic way the overall needs and total requirements that we need with the utmost need and this criterion of excellence, as well as actually the criterion of being able to set those methodologies by which we could also set what is called a declaration of knowledge. It's two parallel processes. Opening, creating not a roof organization but among other things an animation, one function according to the expression of these new tendencies that very often are carried by young people, and who in certain classes and in certain institutions of the Academy are indeed going out to the public and, of course, the creation of one guarantee element of the Academy that is directly related not only to the development of society but I would dare say for the stability of the society itself. Academys in this respect have a truly double function, they express the need for the development of society. But they kind of express one stability of the stability society to organise in the national institutions of the first categories and to represent a certain quantum conscience on the certainly criteria of which it was previously mentioned. The position of education, science and culture is precisely the Academy covering these three concepts of activity, however, is a position which is certainly not only the position of political authorities, budgets and others towards the Academy, but all together towards society as a whole. This means that the debate on the position of knowledge and on Croatia based on the knowledge that has been made and the document of the declaration that we have before us is actually a permanent debate in this same Assembly when we talk about budgets, when we talk about projects, when we talk about concrete things where the idea is manifested, that Croatia should therefore be based on knowledge. In this regard, I also see the discussion of the Academy as a debate on the overall integrity of this system in which the Academy is one of the most important institutions and most respected institutions, but which must generate on all other elements of its own to thus say positive impulses. In that sense, the external, social position of the Academy is also very important, because it certainly cannot be passive to those phenomena when these same declarations cannot be called to any concrete, practical, so to speak positive practice. We tried that on several occasions and in the last four years to say so if I shared these ideas myself, greatly moved forward, so both science and culture and education were significantly more widely funded. I think it is therefore the position of the Academy, that in some way and in this respect be responsible for those who decide, because, as Parliament does not decide on the Academy, it is autonomous, and neither can the Academy, unfortunately, decide on the same values, which it supports, but therefore does this Parliament. But in the collaboration of all these positive aspects, I think that we can come up with one reconstruction, one new, extremely active position of the Academy, an extremely active position, because there are some examples and many examples that exactly the Academy of Symbiosis with opening up to young people achieves in some segments very good results and that, in some ways, the Academy is in some way, when it comes to science, education and culture, the homeland of all those who do so, and where, of course, the respectable people who have devoted their whole lives to these elements and who, in some ways, do not have to take daily tests from how active or not, in one way, warm interrelation, I would not say patronage, but a warm interrelation with all other segments of the Academy, in some way, we get, in this one activity according to the same principles in which it is set itself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23785	Thank you. We're going to an individual debate. Honored representative Ruža Tomasic. She's gone. He's losing his word. Dear Representative Kajo Bucan.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23786	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. We have today a report from an institution that we should actually be particularly proud of. Today, we really need to discuss a learned society to cultivate education in a people’s language, for he called it 1821. Tomas Miklausic and supported by the Croatian Assembly in the same year. Since that conclusion was not accepted then, the Assembly continued its legislative proposal on three occasions to elect the first Academy members and their election of the Academy to be legally established. I mean, this debate is bound by the HAZ Act, but also by historically justified reasons. All those efforts by our representatives in this High House at the establishment of the Academy. After the establishment of an independent and democratic Republic of Croatia on 26 June 1991, this House adopted the new HAZ Law as the highest scientific and artistic institution in the Republic of Croatia, which legally confirmed the fact of its entire work. The main tasks of the Academy are set out in Article 3. Law on Croatian Academy of Science and Arts. In 1887, the first volume of the Yearbook was printed. To date, 107 such notebooks have been printed, the book of Letopis, which represents the annual publication of the Academy and its administrative messenger, and we here today only have a summary of that book, which shows the entire work of the Academy in 2003 transparently and systematically. The scientific and artistic work of the Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts is organized today in 9 of its classes, in scientific councils and committees, in scientific and research units whose review is thoroughly given in the text. Data on membership, meetings and their kind, the work of the presidency, the work of the foundation and the assistance of the Government and the Parliament are listed. The work of the Academy's committees, classes and other units, especially scientific research units that worked on 44 scientific, so-called parent projects during 2003. 400 volumes of their publications have been donated to libraries throughout Croatia. The Academy has a transparent and updated website and a very expanded publishing activity of 105 volumes in 2003. Compared to the funds the Academy has had, and here most are mentioned from the state budget, i.e. 80.35% of excess income is observed over expenditures of 1.729,516 kuna. As regards the approved funds that the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts did not spend in the past year, and since in this case it is a long-term research and publishing project called "Croatia and Europe" in which a number of domestic and foreign holders participate, I join the view that the appropriations should certainly remain available to the Croatian Academy of Science and Art for the purpose of uninterrupted implementation of the project. Given the above, I suggest that the report on the work of the HAZ be adopted for 2003. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23787	Thank you very much. Is there anything else Mr. Academyman would like to say? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23788	Let me just have a few words. First of all, I thank you for your interest in your discussions. And I also thank you for your interest in being aroused, in a way, by positive vibrations. The Academy wasn't taught to talk about her. The declaration you spoke of today very nicely and hopefully heard a lot of things went less undetected, as many other activities of the academy go unnoticed. The Academy is an institution that lasts 143 years, in which there is no affair. Maybe that's our fault. I thank all of you who participated in the debate, and especially allow me to thank Professor Selem, chairman of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture for a nice presentation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23789	Thank you very much. Yes, respect. I'm closing the debate. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, let's vote on what we discussed. Please engage. Please quorum. Okay. 88, and there's everyone in the hall right now. Today we go with this supplement that...... Okay. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Now, please, let's get involved. First we will vote on the report on the work of the Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts in 2003. Please, let's vote. I'm asking for a result. May I have your attention, please? 96 votes for, 8 abstentions and none against. Therefore, that conclusion was accepted. Report on the work of the Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23792	Honored President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. Here I would try in short lines, because you obtained material in written form to present a report on the work of the pension market for 2003. In the opening part, I would say that in 2003 it was, let's say, the beginning, but already sufficiently developed, that the market is already retired and consolidated. I'm talking here because I've heard it's a united debate because it's going to be led for the first pillar because after 2002 we in Croatia have a three-layer pension system that's being held down by the 1st pillar, it's generational solidarity and a very different pension savings system in II. and III. a pillar, i.e. compulsory and voluntary pension savings. In 2003, there was a merger of pension funds and today we have four compulsory pension funds which were the reason and legal constraints because the limit of the number of members should have reached 80,000 members, so three funds were, let's say, sucked up by larger funds or sold freely on the market. In 2003, we have the number of members who are in the mandatory pension rate, i.e. savings million and 71 thousand, which we see is almost a quarter of Croatia and almost 80% of the working population is employed in compulsory pension insurance. From the point of view of the assets of the funds we can be satisfied because the assets of the funds grew at a very good rate and we saw that the work in Croatia was partially solved and the structure of public finances, i.e. the collection of the contributions themselves. The property of the funds was at the end of 2003 at the level of 4.6 billion kuna, so that it would already reach over 7 billion kuna today. As regards compulsory pension funds, they are in their structure and founding capital mainly linked to larger insurance houses or to the banking sector. In addition to mandatory pension funds, voluntary pension funds have also been established and the structure of the founders of such funds is approximately the same, which is understandable in the light of the narrow market, the shallow financial structure market and the very financial structure of the entire Croatian market where the banking system remains, but still with the tendency that pension funds and other investment funds occupy their share of the cake on that market. As far as investment policies themselves are concerned, one good thing should be highlighted as regards pension funds themselves, which is that 91.3% of pension funds are invested in the Republic of Croatia. Here you have different interpretations of capital that has been penetrated from the banking sector, from other sectors, lying houses etc. who find their ways in other ways that are not only in the development of the Croatian economy. We managed to keep it today, although we have a lot of pressure on capital exports outside. Why is that? I noted at the outset that the problem of the financial market itself is the shallowness of the financial market. At this point, pension funds have one significant structure in which, with the start of the pension funds, when almost 95, 96% of the assets were invested in government bonds, today we have a situation and this is from the end of 2003 at 65% of the assets that are invested in government bonds and the rest of the assets which is already a very significant asset cookie is investing in other securities. From the point of view of the capital market and what is happening on the capital market should be stressed that the trend which was back two years ago that it continues in this year and that it is very positive from the position of demand for securities and assets on the financial market. In this respect, we should also look at the raised capital market through the issue of bonds by mundane bonds, by cities, we have a question of Zadar, we have a question of Koprivnica and several other environments that announce bond broadcasting. Of course it's one newspaper on the financial market and that we have a problem with the main one that's being created, that's knowledge. There is simply not much knowledge, especially in smaller cities, smaller places but we are still a banking system with the domination of the banking sector and credit expansion. What is changed in principle and it is good to change, but it is of course that it can't be done overnight, but it should work hard on education and we, as an institution in the last two years and early this year, made a visit to almost all the counties, cities across the Croatian Chamber of Commerce where we tried and with the education of people by, means both mayors and mayors and mayors to bring this topic closer to the local administration. As for the contribution of pension funds themselves since the start of the cash flow collapse, or cash flows to date, it is at a very enviable, high level, at 8.41%. So we have almost 9% at the annual level of pension funds. If you are close to that part that is about pension funds that are conservative funds, they are not classic investment funds that invest in everything on the market. If we had here, we would have made 20 and 30 percent, but with a high probability of greater risk. As it comes to pension funds both in our country and in the world that it is conservative investment policies we have limited ourselves to investment in the most valuable securities, these are first-quota securities, these are government bonds, these are deposits and something from external portfolios that also have the highest value according to credit ratings. The potential of the fund industry itself should also be expressed from this aspect. The fund-raiser industry, as well as at the beginning of the story when the story started and today it's literally the same. It should be a driver of economic activity, it in the financial sector dealing with the financial sector is today because even today, without pension funds as an institutional investor, you can't, nothing happens today they have the capital of 7 billion kuna, which is the broadcasting of every tranche of bonds, in the broadcasting of corporate bonds because pension funds are present. We also have questions as to why we don't invest in some shares, etc., but this is simply the type of industry whose risk is reduced to the least possible measure, because this is about a partner relationship literally between the state and the private sector. However, it is the state that has allowed the private sector, private funds that part of the property and it must be subject to strong regulation by the state, so it is legally settled. The entire portfolio of investment policies is limited to the most valuable that we have in Croatia. Of course, in the next phase of the potential of pension funds and development and part of industry, we will have to rely on significant projects that will continue to develop in Croatia, which will be long-term targeted in Croatia. 'Cause don't forget that this pension fund's pension fund manual has been moving for a minimum of 25 years, and the average is between 35 and 40 years. To bring you closer to the banking sector's manual structure, it's about a year and a half. That means that you can go through the fund industry that is now at the beginning of yet, it is... but still at the beginning with your 7 billion kuna, but with 10 years of manuals when it comes then it is a very great potential and that potential should be well directed. He must, above all, be focused on the Croatian economy, on projects, but unfortunately we also have the possibility of buying, that simple people are afraid of the stock market, afraid of capital markets, afraid of transparency, but of course that time will do its part, and that through that segment, time will certainly come to show that this is a very high quality source of funds, and in the final consideration he would say that pension funds in 2003 and in the follow-up of 2004 have potential which is also legally focused on the development of the Croatian economy and that we are already talking to both local communities and the Ministry of Finance, that it is also going towards the tranche of development bonds that would be concrete for concrete and targeted projects. Here, thank you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23793	Thank you. I ask the Director of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute, Mr. Mila Rukavin, to submit an additional report on the work of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute for 2003.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23794	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. The report on the work of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute for 2003 was presented by the Administrative Board of the Institute at its 3rd session held on 28 July 2004 and the report was forwarded to the Croatian Assembly in the context of the implementation of the legal obligation to give an opinion. The report was also submitted to the competent Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship and to the retirement associations. The opinion in question was given by the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the parliamentary committees: the Committee on Finance and the State Budget and the Committee on Labour and Social Policy, and during the debate certain questions were raised on which the Institute gave written answers in writing. The report you have in front of you is content very rich data on the state of the pension insurance system based on generation solidarity with the presentation of statistical data and the analysis of the situation. The report shall also include information on the organisation of the professional service, on human potential, information technology of the Institute, on the state of the portfolio review on 31.12.2003, and information on the exercise of the right and work of the Professional Service of the Institute. The report also contains a series of tables and charts with comparative data. Something about a pension insurance system in general. The pension insurance system, as is known, constitutes a framework governing the way in which the risk of age, disability and death of the fosterer of the family, as well as administrative and institutional arrangements for the implementation of the pension insurance. The importance of pension insurance of the system, pension system in the economic, social and political life of Croatia is seen in the number of insurance payers for pension insurance, the number of pensioners and members of their families living on pension and the amount of pension insurance expenditure and their share in gross domestic product. Regarding the financing of the system, it can be noted that in 2003 the costs of the pension system amounted to 13.4% of gross social product, and they have been one of the significant factors in the growth of public spending in the Republic of Croatia over the past few years. The first level of pension insurance based on generation solidarity has also been reformed, but continues to be based on two of the most important principles, which are the principle of solidarity and the principle of reciprocity. With regard to the financing of the pension system, it can be noted that it is financed from the current payment of contributions and revenues from the state budget covering expenditure on pensions incurred under more favourable conditions and other legislation of the prescribed expenditure, and also the funding and lack of funds to be paid in the second pillar, that is, so on. the transition cost of pension reform. In 2003 the total expenditure of the pension system and generation solidarity amounted to 24 billion and 111 million kuna. This includes expenditure on pensions made according to specific regulations, i.e. 222 billion and 185 million if we exclude this pension data from specific regulations. In the total income structure of 2003, the revenues of the contribution amounted to 56.4% or 13 billion 845 million kuna, and the funds from the state budget were 43.6% and 10 billion and 266 million kuna respectively. The peace and pension incomes achieved under the general rules account for 75% of the total expenditure on pensions and pension incomes. I would like to point out that pensions are covered only with or only 77.7% of income from contributions while pensions made under special regulations account for 25% of total expenditure. As regards data to insurance and users, it can be noted that on 31.12.2003, the pension was received by a total of one million and 54 thousand 549 users, while a million 443 thousand were recorded at the same time, 995 insurance companies and this makes up a ratio of 1:1,37 of pension and insurance users. Also on the day of 31.12.2003, there were 259 thousand in the Institute and 911 users of child allowances for nearly 491 thousand children. The total number of people eligible for retirement in 2003 was 45 thousand and 664, which is a 7% increase compared to the previous year. Something about retirement data. The average pension in 2003 was reduced by taxes and taxes, but with 100 kuna plus 6% included was a thousand 717 kuna. This makes up 43.65% of the net salary of all employees in the Republic of Croatia in December 2003. It would also point out that, given the nominal growth, the nominal pension growth was 3.90% and the cost of life was 2.1%. Real pension growth was 1.76% in the reporting period. Something about organization and human potential. The Institute’s professional service is organized on a territorial basis in the central service and regional services and outposts. The central service shall carry out a secondary procedure other than that part of the procedure in the implementation of international contracts, and shall carry out operations also jointly for the whole professional service within the meaning of the provisions of Article 15. The statutes. Our regional services shall carry out a first-degree procedure for the exercise of pension insurance rights, insurance parent records transactions, start-up, termination of data changes and during insurance and other operations determined by the Statute of the Institute. On 31.12.2003, 3 000 258 employees were employed in the professional service of the Institute and I would like to highlight the structure here, and 28% had high professional equipment and 11.6% had employees, had higher professional equipment, and even 51.6% had medium professional equipment and 8.8% had lower levels of professional equipment. Another information, I think, is that this is significant, and that the data on the structure of workers of the professional service of the institution according to age, i.e. the data confirm that the professional service of the office belongs to the category of old or older services. For example, between 41 and 50 years of life there are even a thousand and 118 workers or 34%, and over 51 years of life there are 45 employees or 32.1%. Since the discussions through the committees raised a portfolio issue, I would only mention a few notes about the portfolio situation during the reporting period. In 2003, the portfolio of the Institute in 2003 managed, as you know, the Croatian Privatisation Fund on the basis of the share management contracts and business shares since 27 July 2002. By 31.12.2003, a total of 443 nominal companies 3 billion and 670, round, 3 billion and 670 million kuna and 541 million euros, respectively, were transferred to the Fund. On 31.12.2003, the total available portfolio of the Institute in HFP was 170 companies of nominal value of 2 billion and 291 million kuna and 318, respectively, almost 319 million euros. Thus, the portfolio was reduced from 20.7.2000 to 31.12.2003 by 273 companies and the value of a billion and 379 million and 222 million euros. Another question was about the committee debate. It was related to the concession of shares to the Croatian Privatisation Fund. So, in line with the conclusion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia since 22 February 2001, the Croatian Privatisation Fund has given the Institute the consent to give shares of 147 companies in favour of the Ministry of Public Works, Reconstruction and Construction, and this is for covering capital expenditure, the total nominal value of 498 million 901 thousand 680 kuna and 108 million 827 thousand 510 euros. In connection with this portfolio situation at the request of the board, we also delivered a broader written statement. In connection with the exercise of the right of work of the professional service, I believe that detailed data exist in the report and the presentation of the situation and that there is no need to be specifically elaborated. It may only indicate that during 2003 a total of 584 thousand 754 pension insurance claims were resolved in the first and second stages. Here, I think it is the shortest possible recapitulation of the report on the work of the Croatian Institute for 2003. All your questions will be answered orally, and certainly, if possible, and if not orally anyway. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23795	Thank you very much. With regard to the Report on Pension Markets in the Republic of Croatia, do the rapporteurs of the Committee on Labour, Social Policy and Health further explain the Report or present it? No, I don't. The Committee on Finance and the State Budget? President of the Committee, the Honorable Representative of the Shima Rifle, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23796	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. It is precisely because there have been certain doubts on the Committee, and we now see through the report that I wish to repeat and read the Committee's position at that time, so that we can see that, in the meantime, it has met these demands. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure, i.e. their responsibilities, discussed and respected the Government’s view that it was not, or that the 2002 and 2003 Report had to be pooled, which we can see that it was later and later done. Several opinions were given in the Committee's discussion. I point out, in particular, that opinion which draws attention to the possibility of a significant increase in pension reform costs for reasons II. and III. the pension column unnecessarily increases the cost of functioning of the pension system. In fact, part of their jobs could be carried out by pension pillar I, thereby reducing the costs of a new pension reform. In addition, the need to amend the provisions of existing legislation to allow pension funds a more modern way of investing capital on the domestic market. Which, we've already heard in the report. And the conclusion. A report on pension markets in the Republic of Croatia is hereby adopted in 2003, but united in 2002, together with the changes made by the Government as a proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23797	Thank you very much. With regard to the Government Report, the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute for 2003, does the Chairman of the Committee on Labour, Social Policy and Health want? Honored representative Marko Turic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23798	Dear Mr. President, the Honorable Director of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute, colleagues and colleagues. The Committee on Labour, Social Policy and Health at the 13th session of the Committee held on 21 September 2004 discussed this report on the work of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute for 2003. The Committee discussed the report as a home working body in accordance with Article 75, of course. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. In his opening statement, the Proposer pointed out that through the report on the work of the Croatian Institute there was also an analysis of the situation in the pension system of the Republic of Croatia. The debate warned of the fact that Croatia inherited a pension system with extremely high levels of rights and inappropriate movements in the economy. In addition to this war, the transition has led to a rapid deterioration in the rate of contributions and pensioners. The application of the new pension rules of 1999 and the application of the three-part system has stopped a negative trend as seen in this Report. Special attention was paid in the discussion by the board members to the business of Croatian Pension Insurance and the Croatian Pension Investment Society d.o.o. as legal entities owned by institutions established for the management and management of shares and business shares in the portfolio of institutions. It has been observed that the report does not show sufficiently the business of especially Croatian Pension Insurance d.o.o. the value of the shares, the question of the shares compensation, the shares allocated to cover the capital expenditure of the Ministry of Public Works, Reconstruction and Construction. At the request of the members of the Committee that, due to the obviously unresolved relations with regard to the concession and availability of shares between the Ministry of Public Works, Reconstruction and Construction of the Croatian Privatisation Fund and the Croatian Pension Insurance Office, a more detailed report shall be submitted to the Committee at that time by the proposer's representative to submit the requested report before the start of this debate, the session of this Parliament. We heard a little bit from Mr. Director that it was done and we got it in our materials. After the discussion, the Committee members unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament for adoption of the following conclusion: A report on the work of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute for 2003 is accepted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23799	Thank you. The Committee on Finance, the state budget president, the respected representative of Šima Prtvenjak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23800	Thank you very much. Here were some doubts, and for this reason, it should be recalled in the first part of Article 140. As an interested working body, the Committee's Rules of Procedure discussed this and discussed exactly the structure of its revenue of its expenditures, receipts and expenditures and certain differences which were as questionable, for example. The director has just put out the structure, so there's no need to repeat that we agree with her in full. Secondly, it should be harmonised, warned, that the proposed Report should be consistent with the data of the main book of the Treasury, and we heard that the difference was due to the accounting new way, the accounting statement and there was no real difference or loss in the fund. And thirdly, in addition to the above, it was warned that the problem of unresolved relations regarding the concession and availability of shares between the privatisation fund and the Ministry of Public Works and the Croatian Pension Insurance has just been heard now that it is finally harmonised. Finally, after this three findings, the Committee unanimously proposed to the Assembly to reach a conclusion: a report of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute for 2003 is being accepted, and what has already been pointed out, but we concluded in the second point that the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute is committed to drawing up a report on the report in question at the 11th session of the Croatian Parliament on measures taken in connection with the refunding of shares of the pension institution, which is based on the conclusion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia on 22 February 2001, adopted by the Ministry of Public Works, Reconstruction and Construction, etc. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23801	Thank you very much. And now we're crossing, opening the debate. The debate is united at these points. The Croatian Party of Retired Party Club, Honored Representative Silvano Hrelja, please welcome.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23802	Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor, Your Honor. Therefore, the report on pension markets in the Republic of Croatia in 2003 is a correct and professional report, which the Croatian party of pensioners will accept, but as we talk about this Report, we cannot look back on the pension reform that has recently been glorified in this honorable home and given the attributes of a visual example of pension reform for the wider environment of Croatia. It is indisputable that the pension reform was introduced into the Croatian pension system by one perfided method of buying the silence of social partners and without genuine deep social dialogue and without communication with citizens and that it was adopted without the attitude and resistance of the social partners in which we are truly an exception in our environment. It is undeniable that pension reform will boost the capital market and this is already evident in Croatia but there are still no elements of economic growth and living standards as described in the introduction of this material. Unfortunately, today, it is rare that the second pillar user can calculate his pension from that second pillar and thus his total pension. With a high degree of probability, it can be determined that only insurance companies who are 2nd-degree bonds are 43 years old and receive a gross salary of 5 thousand kuna per month will have an equal or greater total pension than today's pension beneficiaries. It is also important to know that for the payment of 1000 kuna of pensions for a lifetime in the 2nd pillar, about 160 thousand kuna should be collected over the years, increased by contributions of pension funds moving at 3% per year. Insurance companies at the level of gross wages 5000 kunas monthly set out in the second pillar of 250 kuna, so you can figure out what they can expect, or what the total amount will be collected over the years. It should be said that more than 60% of Croatia's employees receive a gross salary of less than 5,000 kuna. At the salary level, 2500 kuna gross, I interpret it as a category of employees of the poor, and this category is not a novelty, the developed world speaks very much of the category of the poor, and it has social shockers that can be helped in a way that survives and works, so that category for the 2nd pillar is 125 kuna per month, so we can figure out the same amount of pension from the 2nd pillars for them, and it is not to reject the fact that 48% of the employees in textiles exist at that level, 62% of the clothing production, 71% of the employees in the shoe industry, 45% in wood processing. However, the most tragic balance sheet of pension reform is related to insurance companies of the current and future pensioners who do not have the right to retire from the 2nd pillar. There is a pension reform in an unequal position where insurance companies paid contributions at the same rate and therefore we have at least 15 generations of discriminatory future pensioners in which the longer you do this smaller pension, you have. Hopeless, unfair and unfair, I hope you'll agree. Of course, all that progress is solved hastily with a lack of social sensitivity when it comes to collection, so we will meet with these unsettled and unacceptable solutions for the next 10 years. The burden of pension reform cannot fall to 15 to 20 generations of pensioners and the reduction of their rights, and it is urgent to analyse the social status of new pensioners as well as to find appropriate measures to compensate for the current intolerable situation. There are three more problems, and there's still a handful of problems that I'm going to name that bother me and that I'd like to know the answers to. That's the next question. First of all, why do insurance companies in the second pillar have no direct or indirect impact on the management of the fund's operations, since I am pointing out mandatory funds and compulsory insurance? I agree that this doesn't fit in with the collage fund industry and the management method, but I still underline the fact that it's about mandatory funds and compulsory insurance, it's not something we choose. Secondly, one question that is a little ticky but I'd like to know the answer, what are the president's salaries for managing a mandatory pension fund and the cost of administration and supervisory boards in absolute amounts per year? Furthermore, which is the protection of capital in compulsory pension funds from the possible devaluation of the kuna, i.e. whether personal investment in life insurance in order to gain a life-long rent is better protection of the value of capital, since it has a foreign exchange clause compared to the second pillar, i.e. an individualised capitalised savings, and yet mandatory. I also point to the next possible problem. Where pension funds will place funds when the capitalised savings rise to 15 billion kuna given the limited possibilities of issuing government bonds... the bond also, and given the obligation to make the funds available annually. [[/the speaker doesn't understand.]] I wouldn't want to be a pessimist after all. I want to believe that we will gather enough political wisdom to concentrate on future periods and combine the uncontested financial potential of funds with so much needed economic development in Croatia. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23803	Thank you very much. Next is the SDP Club, a fellow representative, Josip Leko. And I'm sorry, you've shared, sir.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23804	Ladies and gentlemen, today we are considering the issues of the entire pension system, regardless of what two principals sat down on one side, on the other. Otherwise, it is a unique system and should be viewed and experienced. I must tell you that the pension reform is satisfied with the state. Because she stopped the rise in pension costs in the social gross product. Employers are satisfied because they have reduced the rate of separation. Insurance workers are satisfied because every day they know how much they have in their capitalized fund. International organisations are satisfied, i.e. international organisations the World Bank and the Monetary Fund are satisfied, as they point out Croatia as an example of where pension reform without major earthquakes has simply succeeded. However, pensioners are dissatisfied. Those who retire are dissatisfied because they are disappointed. They have increased the number of years, retirement and the number of years for retirement accounts. 11 rights have been abolished, and two rights have been transferred to the area of social care. Therefore, we have created a new system in this new system so far, we have 240 thousand pensioners, who unfortunately have up to 30% less pensions for full-time employment compared to the pensioners who retired 99 years ago. Something that doesn't make sense that at the age of 30, your current pension is 45 kuna, and every year after 30 to 40, the current pension value is 24 kuna, therefore half less. So, who does it stimulate to work longer and what is this reward for longer work? Therefore, it is necessary to make some changes, do, return to the objectives of the reform that Mr Kovacevic has said here. And they should be better retirements. Now I wonder, when do you retire better and when the larger pensions from the second pillar? Is that 2013, 2023 or 2043, which was the third projection? I don't think, with this separation in the second pillar, and with this investment system, it's going to be possible for generations to make a larger pension out of the second pillar over the next 20 years. The peacehouse from the I pillar will be getting smaller, the second pillar is not secure and the question is, when will we get to certain scissors, when will the dissatisfaction of the pensioners be even greater than it is now? I must say that the removal of labour market irregularities, i.e. labour force and the introduction of a capitalised system, has been relatively simple. However, why can't we invest pension funds in documents that make mortgage papers that are very current? And secondly, why can't we use pension funds to privatise public enterprises? Something that should change the law. Because I think mortgages and mortgage securities trading are the most cost-effective thing on the market today, and the biggest security is the lowest risk. Then the problem is how to encourage the development of the capital market, which requires a capitalised system. But we still don't have that system, we're just building it up. And the main consumer or the main user of these funds is the state. Although state securities are the safest, the state is spending it. There's no economic growth, there's not what we said at the beginning of the reform that we're going to start a new cycle. But there is no new cycle for now. We have preconditions, and we should also create legal opportunities for that to happen. It is then necessary to do something on this discussion plan presented by the chairman of the Committee on Budgets and on a rationalisation plan. I have to tell you that REGOS and the Pension Insurance Office are doing the same jobs. Two institutions doing the same work. Or that the supervision of the work of pension and other funds is carried out by several institutions that could unite their work or unite and work together, that is the Agency, the Supervisory Directorate of Insurance Companies and the Securities Commission. Why do we have three institutions, and one could do quality work? And now as many funds as so many institutions. Then, if we have a third pillar of pension insurance, we have four pension funds, in the third pillar, we could stimulate Croatia's insurance to form a strong company in which pension funds, voluntary pension funds in which individuals could invest, but also in which they could invest old pensioners who would get through certain shares of the debt paid back. So why don't we turn that debt into a life insurance policy and return it to economic flows? No one's gonna transfer us tomorrow, you've been taking care of yourself, you haven't taken care of the whole situation in society. This is one option that should be developed and which should, which should be very much present in our society. It seems that we are rewriting something that was born in South America, and we have a Croatian brother community in North America that is nothing more than a pension fund, a voluntary, long-term life insurance whose savings is 23 billion dollars. So let's rewrite some of them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23805	Thank you very much, colleague. We have one correction to an incorrect quote. Representative Vidovic, here's your colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23806	I have to say that what my colleague was saying was interesting to me because, let's say, it's full innovation and it could be patented somewhere as a new invention. But speaking after a planned pension reform 8 years ago, one system was introduced and it was all started and the principles of such a single system were simply, I would say, off topic. What am I correcting? I'm correcting the assumption that REGOS and HZMO are doing the same job. It just doesn't have anything to do with each other. These are completely two different institutions. I have to say that in fact, perhaps one of the reasons, the greatest reasons for the success of our pension reform, which has been recognised in the world, is that we formed these two institutions by not hiring more than 35 people and performing a whole new function that has nothing to do with HZMO but pooling contributions on one level, collecting data on one entirely different level, quite another type of data, pairing together. And it could have been before, if you mentioned that it had something to do with the Ministry of Finance and the police department, then it would have been more logical like this simply, these are different institutions. As I don't think this debate should have been united either because these are not two points that can be identified, these are different points.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23807	Thank you very much, colleague. It's a debate on behalf of the Clubs. Representative Leko. Here you go. SDP club. ... We're taking our fellow MP in a row, so you're up soon. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23808	Ladies and gentlemen, today we are considering the issues of the entire pension system, regardless of what two principals sat down on one side, on the other. Otherwise, it is a unique system and should be viewed and experienced. I must tell you that the pension reform is satisfied with the state. Because she stopped the rise in pension costs in the social gross product. Employers are satisfied because they have reduced the rate of separation. Insurance workers are satisfied because every day they know how much they have in their capitalized fund. International organisations are satisfied, i.e. international organisations the World Bank and the Monetary Fund are satisfied, as they point out Croatia as an example of where pension reform without major earthquakes has simply succeeded. However, pensioners are dissatisfied. Those who retire are dissatisfied because they are disappointed. They have increased the number of years, retirement and the number of years for retirement accounts. 11 rights have been abolished, and two rights have been transferred to the area of social care. Therefore, we have created a new system in this new system so far, we have 240 thousand pensioners, who unfortunately have up to 30% less pensions for full-time employment compared to the pensioners who retired 99 years ago. Something that doesn't make sense that at the age of 30, your current pension is 45 kuna, and every year after 30 to 40, the current pension value is 24 kuna, therefore half less. So, who does it stimulate to work longer and what is this reward for longer work? Therefore, it is necessary to make some changes, do, return to the objectives of the reform that Mr Kovacevic has said here. And they should be better retirements. Now I wonder, when do you retire better and when the larger pensions from the second pillar? Is that 2013, 2023 or 2043, which was the third projection? I don't think, with this separation in the second pillar, and with this investment system, it's going to be possible for generations to make a larger pension out of the second pillar over the next 20 years. The peacehouse from the I pillar will be getting smaller, the second pillar is not secure and the question is, when will we get to certain scissors, when will the dissatisfaction of the pensioners be even greater than it is now? I must say that the removal of labour market irregularities, i.e. labour force and the introduction of a capitalised system, has been relatively simple. However, why can't we invest pension funds in documents that make mortgage papers that are very current? And secondly, why can't we use pension funds to privatise public enterprises? Something that should change the law. Because I think mortgages and mortgage securities trading are the most cost-effective thing on the market today, and the biggest security is the lowest risk. Then the problem is how to encourage the development of the capital market, which requires a capitalised system. But we still don't have that system, we're just building it up. And the main consumer or the main user of these funds is the state. Although state securities are the safest, the state is spending it. There's no economic growth, there's not what we said at the beginning of the reform that we're going to start a new cycle. But there is no new cycle for now. We have preconditions, and we should also create legal opportunities for that to happen. It is then necessary to do something on this discussion plan presented by the chairman of the Committee on Budgets and on a rationalisation plan. I have to tell you that REGOS and the Pension Insurance Office are doing the same jobs. Two institutions doing the same work. Or that the supervision of the work of pension and other funds is carried out by several institutions that could unite their work or unite and work together, that is the Agency, the Supervisory Directorate of Insurance Companies and the Securities Commission. Why do we have three institutions, and one could do quality work? And now as many funds as so many institutions. Then, if we have a third pillar of pension insurance, we have four pension funds, in the third pillar, we could stimulate Croatia's insurance to form a strong company in which pension funds, voluntary pension funds in which individuals could invest, but also in which they could invest old pensioners who would get through certain shares of the debt paid back. So why don't we turn that debt into a life insurance policy and return it to economic flows? No one's gonna transfer us tomorrow, you've been taking care of yourself, you haven't taken care of the whole situation in society. This is one option that should be developed and which should, which should be very much present in our society. It seems that we are rewriting something that was born in South America, and we have a Croatian brother community in North America that is nothing more than a pension fund, a voluntary, long-term life insurance whose savings is 23 billion dollars. So let's rewrite some of them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23809	Thank you very much, colleague. We have one correction to an incorrect quote. Representative Vidovic, here's your colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23810	Madam Vice-Presidents, colleagues and colleagues allow me to refer on behalf of the Club only to that part of the report on the work of the Croatian Pension Insurance Office, which refers to the situation itself, so to speak of the pension system, and to skip the parts relating to the Pension Insurance Office itself and, of course, support this report because it is traditionally good, concisely arranged and very transparently gives a picture of what we have in the pension system and gives a good basis for an analysis of what the problems are, but also what should be done in the future. If someone objective from a country of the world came and watched what might have actually been the highest crime of the government from 1990 to 2000, I am sure that a good one could easily come to the conclusion that what was written in this report was that the number of pensioners were unable to solve these governments' economic and social difficulties, it solves where they should be solved, therefore in the economy system, in the area of increased employment, and so on, that these social difficulties were solved in, through a pension system that resulted in a reduction in income and an increase in pension insurance expenditure and an increase in the number of young pensioners as it said here. My colleagues and colleagues, I don't know if there's any country in the world. I'm not sure I've come across that information that would confirm that in just 10 years, the number of insurance workers has been reduced by a million and, in fact, by 2 million and 30 grand per million and 300 grand as it happened to us in this country so that it simply disappears 700 thousand jobs, 700 thousand insurance companies. And at the same time, the number of pensioners doubled from about 650 thousand in 1990 to reach a million and 100 thousand or a million and 20 thousand as it was in 1999. They're facts, they're so hard-core, they're hard facts that can't be caught in the face, and what's the name of that magician who, which chemistry, let alone one serious, one serious government, no matter what it was, what it was, what it was, an ideological omen, and so on. It's simply an objective fact and this report is clearly speaking about it. So, faced with such a situation, the government of Prime Minister Matesha in 1998 has been reaching out and since 1.1.1999 the reform of the first pillar, which is of course unpopular. I can agree with the remarks and with what some people have brought out here, and we are dissatisfied all together, but apparently, such poor management and the consequences for this most significant part of the social system required such unpopular ones, so I want to say that I have an understanding for those who have launched such a reform of the first pillar. Unfortunately, there are also some general facts that support this. You see what is happening now in Austria, what is happening in Italy, what is happening in the countries of Western Europe where the ratio of pensioners and, insurance and workers is still 3 and a half, 4:1 and came to us at 1:1,3. So the situation we're in right now is definitely not a normal situation. The answer to an abnormal situation can also not be too normal. What I think is clear enough from this report is the fact that in such circumstances we do, to carry out a pension reform with full responsibility for people who, in 15 years' time, will do so according to a highly professional, professional, well-managed model, respecting all possible experiences from around the world, gives us the right to hope for no spectacular improvement because they are partly and demographically conditioned, but hope that at least this catastrophic position in which pensioners of the present generation have found themselves will not repeat themselves. Namely a system of generational solidarity for which you can mourn Mr. Judge as I do, is a matter of distant past. When you had a large number of insurance companies, a small number of pensioners then the small costs could have been alimony of large pensions. This system, this bizmark social security model, was worth excellently functioning until about 10, 15v years after World War II. After that, the story is over. And that's why all the countries are going into the pension reform. What the former government has clearly done out of this report. I have to say that a giant, giant step is taken, a giant step to stop things in at least a negative third stop. First of all, we are thinking here of the fact that after the galoping drive of the people retired, which is from 90th to 99th is the ransom, purchased for 55,000 insurance companies totaling 190 years of internships. On average, it is 3 years and 4 months of service per insurance company. And that on average with this acquired internship, they achieved an old-age pension with an average of 51 years of life. The situation finds that the company did not pay contributions during the war, for pension insurance, and that internship was also taken to obtain pension rights. Dakoe's a subtly chaotic state. We have to say with satisfaction managed to stop the trend of retirement and he is now stabilized and once normal to say so at one normal level of tens of thousands of people a year. And from 2000 to 2003, the number of insurance companies increased by 63,000 485 from this data, and these are new jobs in that mandate. It means 63,000. And the number of pensioners, unlike 99, when due to those disabled and so on, has reached over 60 grand in 4 years, has increased by 36,000 or 12,000 a year, which is a normal rate. That's the first good thing. The second thing that speaks of improvement in this report is the position of the uniforms are three laws. The first law on increasing pensions is to remove differences in pension levels. Others for the Law on Amendments and Supplements on the implementation of the 2001 State Budget, with reduced pensions being made according to favourable vuvates and the third Law on pension allowance rights for certain beneficiaries of pensions, thus improving the material situation of Croatian citizens who made their pension in the former republics of Yugoslavia. So, secure 20% pension increases, by 678 thousand 966 pensioners, and a total of 811 thousand pensioners that was a giant undertaking. 2 billion and 400 million kuna cost that story. The very big undertaking this report is also talking about is the fact that after the end of the law on those 100 and 6% with a billion and 520 million kunas continued to be paid for life to the pensioners and thus the story comes to four billion kunas more for the pensioners annually than it was 99 years ago. It's a huge effort for this country and it's realized. And finally, I'm going to mention another law, which is the law on which disability pensions have increased by about 20% due to their professional inability to work, for that category, which has indeed been severely damaged. In general, looking at the pension system in Croatia, he began to get some sort of contours he began to enter into some frameworks and economic and economic tolerance. The type's proposals as the eighth one today heard something should be done, are catastrophic suggestions. There's nothing you can do, there's only a systematic thing to do, it can't be a matter of political upheaval buying social peace it must be a serious job. It's 24 billion kuna going from budget to system. No inter-party agreements should be made here. It's too serious to play with. That's why there's no gentlemen at all, the solutions have to be systematic, and I think this report has shown that it's finally started to work seriously for the past four years, and this is something for example. means changing the formula that is now proving to be bad for the weary. What is unfortunately the part of the Retirement Party, who has accepted such one such deal.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23811	Thank you very much, dear colleague. One copy of the incorrect quote. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23812	I'm correcting two incorrect allegations from my colleague Vidovic. The first 700 thousand jobs are not missing, we have to be honest and say that the causes of staying in the loss of the market are in the war of robbery. In the war through conversion and privatisation, but also forced to bankrupt a part of the company, and there is the responsibility of all former governments, and we have definitely always fought the consequences and not the causes. And two. The formula for harmonising the current modified pension harmonisation formula is not unfavourable for pensioners to bring them more. We can talk about sustainability, but you can't characterize something that brings more.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23813	Thank you very much, dear colleague. Club HDFor the registered vice president of the House Darko Milinoivc and representative of Šima Prtnječa. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23814	Dear Vice President of the House, Mr. Kovacevic, Mr. Rukavine. The Croatian Democratic Community Club discussed a report on the work of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute for 2003 and, as we said, the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute is a very important part of the social security system. And it certainly forms a legal framework that regulates the way insurance, the risk of age disability, the death of family fosterers, and the administrative arrangements for the implementation of pension insurance. Movements in pension insurance are not only determined by the regulations governing the system but also by the fact that its development depends on the overall diplomatic, social and democratic movements. In the framework of pension insurance, we heard from the report, read more than a million pensioners and members of their families, and in this system, it is certainly ensuring professional rehabilitation of disabled people, which enables their further economic activity and prevents their social exclusion. The worrying information we read in the report is that the ratio between pensioners and employees is 1 to 1.37. And it is certainly a great pressure on the economy and developed countries than it is in the Republic of Croatia. The ratio in developed countries ranged from an opportunity of 1 to 3 or 1 to 4, and we also saw yesterday visiting World Bank representatives that they too expressed their concern that the next year, for the costs of the pension system, would be set aside between 13% and 14% of gross social product. Of course concerned about the economic and economic development of the Republic of Croatia. However, we keep in HDZ that this government will find ways that such a huge separation for the pension system from the gross social product will not affect our country’s economic development. The war, transition, economy, poorly formed pension system and ageing population and what is mentioned here has introduced the system into crisis 98. The 99th and certainly then began its extensive reform. Its objective, as well as the objective of each reform, is to establish a sustainable economic system but also to transfer part of the responsibility of the state to each individual who should be more concerned about his social security in the future. By reading this report, it is possible to highlight the high percentage of solved cases sent to the Croatian Pension Insurance Office. In the Institute there were 584.754 cases, which at a high percentage of 91.15%, including child allowance items, were resolved. However, with certain praises that certainly deserve this report, we at the Club of the Croatian Democratic Communities hold that it is written too affirmative and all the effort is shown in a positive sense and there is no single error, failure or difficulty. So if this report were compared with the State Audit Office's report on the audit of the financial reports and operations carried out by the Croatian Pension Insurance Office, there is a number of irregularities, especially in the most sensitive part, that is in the part of the public procurement. From that reading of the State Audit Office's report, you could say that a poor economy, let me tell you by that economic or large system. The supply of goods and services, and the concession of works were carried out very often beyond the procedures prescribed by the Public Procurement Act and the Regulation on the procurement of goods, works and services of small value and contrary to the principles under which a good master must be treated. I'll only bring up a few of the, I have to mention here, from that report of numerous failures. Obligations for pension income shall not in some cases be recorded in the positions they need. So about nine and a half million kunas are recorded on those items where they don't actually belong. Obligations for pensions of people resident in the area, in the formerly occupied areas of the Republic of Croatia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Montenegro and Serbia are not reduced for payments made, and the amount of 1,363.768.000 is actually an unrealistic display of the financial situation of things. During 2003, the Department of Internal Control at the Croatian Pension Insurance Office did not carry out any single supervision of bookkeeping operations, which is required under the Internal Control Regulation, and business expenditures were carried out 213,000 kunas more than the plan. However, the largest number of illegalities was observed on the occasion of the purchase of goods and services in 2003. I will only list a few examples, as the purchase of most of the office and other material was carried out throughout the year on the basis of contracts that were valid until the 8th month of the current 2003. Therefore, the new tender and the new contract signed was due to follow in the 8th month of 2003 and therefore, it was violated and it constitutes a violation of the Public Procurement Act. Material was obtained in a significant value that was not contracted, and many procurement contracts expired even earlier at the very beginning of the current year. Particular attention should be paid to this report and the review report on financial operations, which should, in fact, merit the purchase of material at higher prices. I will also mention here just a few examples, photocopier paper that was obtained at a price of 33.3% higher than the price of paper obtained through the Central Service. The most drastic example may be the acquisition of 600,000 pieces of hanging maps at a price higher by 39% than the lowest offered price. Major irregularities have also been seen in the cost of services. For example, for the maintenance of a construction facility, I will not say where, where the amount of 406,847 kuna was paid without the public tendering procedure in accordance with the Public Procurement Act, although the value of the service exceeds 200,000 kuna. The services of physical and technical protection and current and investment maintenance have also not been implemented under the Public Procurement Act, and this is the number and letter of the figure of HRK 3,274,716, and also the services of the current maintenance of computer equipment have not been implemented, in fact, no contract has been completed at all, and it is financial assets amounting to 5 and a half million kuna. For the services of preventive and intervention maintenance and service of telecommunications and other equipment, one performer was paid 1.130,000 kuna and a single labour price was taken as the only criterion for that public tender, and payments were made on the basis of accounts in which most of the service relates to the contracted material and a small part to work. Because, how much do we have every 10 minutes, right? Finally, here is this brief review of the report on the work of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute I would like to highlight another observation, of course a report that does not contain data on the implementation of the work programme and the development of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute for 2003. In fact, at the beginning of the year, the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance must bring its work programme and based on this work programme, we could discuss here today what percentage it is or what frameworks this work programme is achieved. The report shall also contain no data on the effectiveness of the Internal Affairs Department as well as on the findings of that Section on identified irregularities. The report also does not contain data on the activities and measures undertaken to address irregularities identified for 2003. And that also seems to me to be the government's remark. The Croatian Democratic Community Club holds that reading these reports that we did not receive in the 2003 report of the Pension Insurance Institute, so that in reading these reports MPs would have a better insight into the work of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute, and it would still be good for the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute to deliver it to the Croatian Assembly within a reasonable period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23815	Thank you very much, fellow Vice President. He's a colleague of the Smacks Shima, another 10 minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23816	Madam President, colleagues and colleagues. I can't comment, my colleague Milinovic went to the Mirovinski Institute and he's having a hard time getting out of it, so as much as there is left, I'll try to take this second part out as soon as I can. Of course, it is for me to present this part of the pension market, as well as the capital markets partly touched in Croatia and the situation in that and the reports relating to that period with some of the indications of the characteristic that it originates. Here, for my introduction, just remind me that HAGENA is obliged, and it stands in law, each year by the end of June, to submit a report to the Government. In 2002, she submitted it in October and there is a reason why the government probably did not have time to consider the report again. So it wasn't, although it was a base year, but it wasn't on time submitted, the first finding. The second finding is that it was on that trail that the new government received one and then the second report concluded, as we heard from the Financial Committee's position, that then the joint reports, or the 2003 report, would join the basic information on the 2002 report. So apart from one or the other, it's hard to discuss today, and it's probably gonna take a long time. However, as this can be freely said the basic report of that market, the pension market, because it unites both 2002 and 2003 and for the first time is actually a report in the Croatian Parliament, it is worth reminding and recalling from it some basic definitions and information, which is actually the pension market and what is actually happening in it. So let me just remind you that the pension market is now defined in 3 pillars. The first pillar will continue to be financed from the current payment of contributions and revenues from the state budget, we have already heard in which cases and what differences it is going to make. Peace market in II. and III. the column is intended to be financed in part from the contribution of the other part thoroughly from the capitalised savings. And that is the market that should be the basis for action in that area. United both, i.e. I and II. and III. The pillar should have basic objectives to ensure greater social security, higher overall pension levels, better age insurance, etc. all well said, but hard to achieve, and we have heard the problems and obstacles that will follow in the coming times ahead. The place and role of the pension market in Croatian society is conditioned and is naturally determined by the Croatian financial market. Since both are in some way in conception it is fate for each other still undefined and still in conception. So far, it's characteristic that so far the pension market is mostly, i.e. the funds that have invested in state and corporate securities, and for these ammunitional ones we're just hearing, they're in preparation, starting. Is there going to be any further, it would be good, and that's another incentive when we talked about those funds, and that's the Peace Fund, part of it, then the Defence Fund, etc. as well as these ammunition bonds and some others are areas in which an amendment to the legislation can be made to further and significantly trade and invest. At that time, there may have been an accident, but on the other hand for justifiable reasons the state traded mainly on the foreign capital market, primarily for interest and some other reasons in those times, but corporate bonds at that time were undeveloped so that we actually had these very problems that were the beginnings of both. And it is to expect in future time that, in that kind of correlation, government bonds will gradually move on to the domestic market and ensure that they are more likely to be placed in the area, and that corporate bonds will also be especially resuscitated in the time ahead and can be gradually felt. And this third area, the third sector, is also expected if it is not limited for some other reason or perhaps in some way prevented. The Croatian financial market is characterized by the two reporting years around the next structure. Now these details may not be so significant, but the director pointed out that they are, that it is characteristic that the market is banking, according to the report. Why? Because about 91% of that market is covered by banks, and only the rest is something in the structure of only 2.1% of pension funds that are growing in that structure, but only 2.1% are open and closed funds somewhere around 5%. 5 percent and some percent are external. So something was trading in the area as well. So it's a structure that was characteristic in this period, and it's again from a note to see how it's going to be in the next time, in the next period. Mandatory pension funds and compulsory pension companies at the end of 2003 we had somewhere, said, four mandatory pension funds and seven somewheres, and what is the characteristic of that time, I am trying to make a flight skip so that I can respect time, that most of 2003 was spent on insurance records through REGOS and this is characterized by that structure that we also heard about the number of insurance companies in a particular society or sector. Now, just before we heard a little controversy, it was not my intention to encourage, but to conclude from that report, that there was an increase in the number of insurance companies in I. and II. The pole. Al’ something in the report says that this number has also increased and this has been especially influenced by the introduction of a new category of taxpayers, and these are temporary labour contracts and I don’t know all that they haven’t called. So that's one of the reasons why that number grew. I wish he'd grown from a real increase in the number of employees, then those data would probably be different. So that's one feature. Then, that REGOS collected funds, those 5% compulsory contributions when it came to compulsory contributions and collected and transferred naturally to funds and collected 0.8% of the funding in compulsory pension companies. Somewhere 0.8 belongs to them, I guess, and then they have to, and that's doubtful whether it's small or much or how to organize it, but the report says so. The net assets of compulsory pension funds have the characteristics of growth, so far it has been established that 4 billion is 68 million and that it has a tendency to grow, so we will see in the next period when we observe this report. The investment structure of compulsory pension funds, in comparison again with the previous few data, says around 91.5% of the funds were invested in government bonds, and only about 8.5% of them are foreign investments, but in the team it can grow to 15%. So there's still room in this sector, but the question of risk is probably both supply and demand in the markets, so we can see there. And now in the end, here's the red light. Three pillars, what's very important to point out, I point out that there are three pillars of insurance, so there are no dangers. These are guaranteed deposits up to 20% of the capital that companies must provide and ultimately the state budget as a third segment. So, insurance, the guarantee is secured and it seems to me eventually to say that III. The column is lagging behind, they say it should be incentivised, agreed, as they say, by companies, owners, and only then would III. The pole was something stronger. And finally, I would like to say that the HGN has been supervised by pension funds and REGOS so far in this period of short-sufficient, about how and whether or not further, we will discuss this later. Therefore, HDZ will support this report with all those remarks that can stand with it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23817	Thank you very much, colleague. On behalf of the IDS Club, colleague Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23818	Honorable Madam Vice President, esteemed gentlemen of the MPs. In no country there is likely to be a more complex system than retirement, which is the fact that this pension system participates in the gross social product of the Republic of Croatia, according to data from these reports with 13.04%, while in the countries of Western Europe up to 10%. Yesterday, there was this meeting of representatives of the government and the IMF when they even said that in this GDP system, the pension system participated even with 14% in the Republic of Croatia. So in Croatia it is a participation in the gross social product 3 to 4 times, or actually percentage points above the European average and clearly with our pensions no one in the country is satisfied and clearly, cannot be. Why? Well, because in Croatia, we have a million and 54 thousand pensioners. We've got about a million and 450 grand. So that's where we have the 1:1.37 ratio. But that's not exactly the way it is. Why? Because out of these million 450 thousand, public administration needs to be denied, health care, education, government, Parliament, public administration, etc. And then they're clear, and they're working in insolvency companies, and somehow we get to a ratio of 1:1.1, and it's unsustainable. If we consider that 500 thousand people, I suppose 500 thousand people receive so-called. personal income or salary guaranteed, and in particular that is expressed in the so-called ‘incomes’ of the so-called ‘incomes’ of the so-called ‘incomes’ of the so-called ‘incomes’ of the so-called ‘indicator’ of the ‘indicator’ of the ‘indicator’ of the ‘indicator’ of the ‘indicator’ of the ‘indicator’ of the ‘indicator’ of the ‘indicator’ of the ‘indicator’ of the ‘indicator’ of the ‘indicator’ of the ‘indicator’ of the ‘indetermination of the ‘indication of the ‘indicator’ of the ‘indicator’ of the ‘integ. The small economy or craftsmen who pay one salary, and others show that the problem of the Croatian pension system is becoming more serious regardless of what hundreds and hundreds of thousands of people in this country have a miserable pension. But when I say that one pay is given, and the other is lower in the small sector or craftsmen, then I mean first of all, that these people who work in that small sector are forced to act like that and that without that, many would simply fail, whether it is even newspapers, craftsmen, etc. So that's what I'd say is a survival measure and I'm against today saying expeditions to some or some tax police that are about to be reintroduced in this country. What to say once again about this system to whether of all the contributions from the state is revenueing 13.8 billion kuna or 56.4%, means less than 60% and the pension budget has to pay another 10.7 billion kuna, means more than 43% in order to reach that amount of 24.6 billion kuna in order to generally build on that amount of the millions mentioned and 54 000 citizens of the Republic of Croatia can retire. The average pension was 100 kuna plus 6% thousand 719 kuna or 43.65% average salary. That's last year's data. Now, is it possible to influence this system? Yeah. But how? Only a larger number of jobs. I even dare say that contributions that may be great for world opportunities are not crucial when the tax burden in this country is due. However, the essence of our nations when jobs are done is, in my opinion, a rudely long administrative procedure that blocks any entrepreneurial initiative and under two clear, system that lives on imports and which is not interested in any production activity. But clearly this will cost us, because all the time we in this country can't live only on imports and external debt and so much IDS welcomes the government and the Croatian National Bank's measures to contain their responsibilities, regardless of what is ultimately reflected in the growth of gross social product in this year, because it is as connected vessels and it is not possible to bring one down, and that this also means that the growth of gross products is not reduced. But it is important to mention when pensions are another detail. Someone had talked about it before, I think the representatives of the Croatian Pension Party spoke, and these are social security contracts with the countries of ex-Yugoslavia, from Serbia, Montenegro to Slovenia. For example, people who have worked part of the century in Slovenia, especially this is important for those of us who live by the border, are constantly rebelling that their pensions are being calculated with great delay. It's unacceptable for these people to wait a year, so I dare say up to a year and a half for a pension settlement. It is similar with Serbia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Montenegro, with the difference that those who spent part of their century in Bosnia and Herzegovina or Serbia and who were at the best paid posts in those countries today are for Croatian opportunities if they live in Croatia, large poverty unless clearly led by some pension associations, as Mr Vidovic once said. These are far more important questions for citizens in my court, let's say, Serbian nationalities in the Republic of Croatia than whether their houses are bought by representatives of the Croatian government, because there must obviously be an agreement between the seller and the buyer. The seller because he wants to save his life most likely in Serbia, the buyer for some other reasons. It's clearly deeper and should go backwards, so in 90, 91, 95, when something reckless and collapsed, but about it elsewhere. 2003. The foreign office paid 44,500 pensions for those living in Bosnia, 8.558 for Serbia-Montenegro, 5.407 for Slovenia, 871 for Macedonia. In other European countries 13,434 pensions have been paid. It is now about the decision of the Constitutional Court and the IDS Law on the repayment of debt to pensioners who, twenty days ago, I dare say in a brutal way, was removed from the agenda of this or last assembly session. It is wrong of one who thinks, which is the Constitutional Court's decision, that the denied pensions will return, i.e. that the pensioners in our court will eventually be able to repay the shares. It's just not possible. This fund could bear a contribution not for five years, and that means that in this term this government will not pay off on that basis any kuna or other, this fund will be a cover for the total sale of the remaining major public enterprises of the Republic of Croatia, and against that, the IDS is open, whether it is a sale of "Croatian forests", "Croatian waters", "Croatian highways", etc. It is possible for our court to accept the IDS proposal and to carry out the obligation through the bond, although I do not think it is possible to do so within one, two or three years. Clearly 20 billion kuna, and about this amount is now speculated, paid in two or three years and even four, five, Croatia would have taken to bankruptcy, but if cca could be paid 25 billion kuna in a significantly difficult time to resuscitate the banking system of the Republic of Croatia, when the gross social product was less than 20 billion kuna, and today it is 30 billion kuna, when the budget was almost half the amount of this year, then it is possible to damage pensioners through that form. In this regard, the IDS referred to a new law in the procedure, this time on the compensation of pensioners, when the concept of debt returns is controversial, and the point is that it is done to the bonds within 8 years in a way that from 10% of the budget growth for each calendar year to 2012 is paid 10% of that growth. And we believe that through such one form it is possible to pay off that debt. What's he gonna say? The next year, 500 million kuna, 2006 billion kuna, 2007 billion and 500, 2008 were to be paid on this basis. 2 billion kuna, 2012. 5 billion kuna, but it should be kept in mind that in 2012 the budget of the Republic of Croatia will be 50 and perhaps more billions of kunas larger than the present, but a clear problem is another nature. Just before, Mr. Vidovic spoke about how in the 1990s we had a relationship between the pensioners and the workers at 1:3, even more. Today it's 1:37. It clearly needs to be fair and what Mr. Hrelja said noticed, that in the meantime there was a war. The problem of extra workers at that time when one third of the country was occupied among other things was resolved by retirement. Where we could be 92, 93, 94, with these people who were also in refugee camps in Istria, Dalmatia, Rivers, etc. We could either go public, so the police, the military and customs, or we could retire with them. The third solution, because there were no jobs, was simply not there. Mirovina was not even at the time, I dare say, no such inhumane solution as this, for example, today is no severance, when this reshuffle of the Croatian Army is due. Problem, where did it come from? At the moment Mr. Valentiæ's government froze their pensions, I think, in 93rd and clearly there were no jobs. Although privatisation, we can't avoid it, it's been doing all that because none of the privates wanted to keep an over-the-counter, and foreign capital is not coming in 2004. Finally, average retirement, so-called. Age pension, leaving at 31 or 32 years of internship. That's the information on this page 9. So up to 59 years of retirement, up to 59 is 230 thousand people. Less than a thousand 400 kuna in Croatia receive 46% of pensioners. And that's the point. 7% less than 367 kuna, 10% less than 796 kuna, 29% less than 1,000 366 kuna, 23% thousand 845 kuna, etc. But I'm back to the point again, and the essence is different. They're jobs, and if everyone, if everything, were actually in this country, people who are unemployed today would come to me at 1:1,8, 1:1.9. And this ratio is disastrous to say that the demographic problem of Croatia at this time is unfortunately the biggest unsettled problem, the issue of survival of this country or all of these systems. A user's pension, which means a pension made under special conditions, by NOR fighters, by 68 thousand, by the country's 30 thousand, former political prisoners, members of the HAZU, SIV, the Parliament, what is it now? The Croatian Army, up to 252 miners of Istrian coal mines, Tuljak from Labin, which I am extremely proud of, plus defenders, has 176 thousand. Of them 176 thousand 532, 296 persons are members of the government, vice-presidents of the government, ministers, rectors of our universities, and clearly, some representatives. Today, 3 years, on the other hand, and this other topic, after the appearance, so-called mandatory pension funds plus voluntary pension funds, about a million and 200 thousand people have a personal account in one of the funds. This is a short period of time for some sure conclusion, but it should be said that the contributions of money during that period of several years were good, which means that this should guarantee a more stable or safer payment of pensions in the period ahead. Why, on the other hand, are our pensions falling? For the simple reason that a 10-year-old reckoning has been conducted now for a lifetime. It was done in 99th, and as far as pensions are concerned, it's been at 43% for years, which is understandable from those 100 kuna plus 6%. What do these mandatory pension funds we have in the Republic of Croatia do now with this raised money? They clearly invest it and it cca 88.2% of their assets on the domestic capital market. Now, if it's a safe investment, it'll show time. However, since cca 66% is mainly invested in government bonds, I do not think that should be questionable, but what about the role in corporate bonds and the like? What are we doing here? Different from fund to fund. Contributions are still like bonds, I would say, good ones, and mainly or highest ones, which should be commended, are those at the Privredna banka in Zagreb. But soon they're going to leak into us, so-called. Social property. It would be good for these funds to be taken over by Croatian successful companies because the property of pensioners will thus be protected, but then what happens in the Republic of Croatia? Foreign banks also take over that kind of Croatian economy or if you want politics. Taking over the banks, somewhere in 98th, 9, 2000th, when the foreigners took over, they took over, I would say, the country as a whole, finance with funds today owned by banks, pension plus these pifs, take over the entire Croatian economy. It is, then, Croatia today. We can only be comforted that these banks are today legal persons registered in the Republic of Croatia and that they operate under Croatian laws. It is not disputed that foreigners can invest. However, without their investment in the territory of the Republic of Croatia, Croatia's future will be questionable. But it was a mistake, in my court, to privatise the rescheduled banks. Not the ones that were in trouble like Istria, but the rescheduled banks. I am also aware, either the capital will enter the Republic of Croatia or our citizens will go after that capital into the world, and we see for ourselves what happens to our truck drivers who go to Iraq. True, it should also be acknowledged that these foreign banks have solved our fears of bankruptcy, dropped significant interest, invested, and, on the other hand, the rescheduled bank was not to be sold in my view, because we see this as a result of the extreme responsibility of the Republic of Croatia, the huge imports and the above-mentioned dependence of each country on these foreign companies. The first wave of pension payments on the second pillar we expect only in 2010 when those who were formed had cca 50 years of life are on their way to retirement. But these people, and that's to say, they're going to have a very small pension and, I dare say, they need to be changed by law. More specifically, an amendment to the Law on Mandatory and Voluntary Pension Funds should be made and this should soon be sent by IDS to the parliamentary procedure. All in all, this report gives us the impression that there are problems, and that only with this will there be problems in the Republic of Croatia because there is no higher employment, no faster growth, no foreign investment flows and we can hire all unemployed citizens and we will have a condition again, one worker, one pensioner, 1.7, 1.8 workers. The pensions will, therefore, be less and less, therefore they should be feared and the almost privileged category will be those pensioners who were retired before 99th, although in the meantime, from 93rd to 98th, they have been abolished by 30 to 40 pensions. Clearly, these people should be returned to what they lost because the authority of the most legal institution of the Republic of Croatia or the political institution or constitutional institution is behind it, however, and this is the Constitutional Court. So I want to end up with Mr. Vidovic when he said that we can't, when the pension system is playing with something but the system has to be complete so that it can function, and otherwise nothing in it is better not intervene. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23819	Thank you very much, colleague. Next up is the HNS Club, PGS, representative of Cacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23820	Dear Madam Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. I sincerely hope I'm not that short. The start of the pension reform through the establishment of a new part of the pension system in the 2nd and 3rd pillars, we received the Croatian pension market in early 2002, not the monopoly, but the market. Personally confident, not only me, but a large part of the people who deal with the economy and finances that it is one of the most important if not the most important for the future of this country, the project that has been realised about the capital, and the way it is realised, the quality of realisation, the speed, the purity of the absence of any conflict segment in this process goes to the honor of all those who participated in it and I think it is far enough not sufficiently recognised within the country but is therefore widely praised and serves as a role model for the surrounding countries. A whole series of countries that are today introducing such a system come to Croatia to apply the concept that has been proven here. At the end of 2003, we ended up with 4 compulsory pension funds, over a million insurance companies in them and 4 volunteers with nearly 9,000 members. Strong growth and economic recovery, especially in 2002 and 2003, laid the foundations for the future of the Croatian pension market, because immediately the growth percentages were such that they definitely confirmed it in the beginning. So these percentages, therefore, are really one of the few things with which everyone in this country can be content and content with it and represent the long-term basis for Croatia's economic development. Just to mention what was going on in those first years, we had in mandatory funds a change in the value of capital from the indicative lowest was 10.71 to 12.10. So a fantastic leap in 2002 similar to something less repeated in 2003 is this growth of the economy, in 2004 there is a slight decline and stagnation but still within the framework of European standards. The first-degree business pensions of course carry solidarity and redistribution with a slight dependence on the height of the insurance pay and the second and third levels have a slight redistribution and an emphasis on the height of the contribution. All of this together needs to ensure greater social security and a higher overall level, thus ensuring the risks of age, disability and death. Of course, by sharing the risk of insurance to multiple levels of the holder in the overall pension reform for economic movements should be more favourable than pension insurance based solely on generational solidarity. Investments in pension funds as the goal set out in the current establishment are again undermining it today, will increase investment that will show, boost the development of the capital market, economic growth and the growth of living standards in Croatia. About it as a goal there is a consensus you have it in this text. Unfortunately, we didn't even quite recognize the possibilities that were born out of this instrumentation, so I'll say something a little later. Although we agreed on what we want from that instrument. The development and expansion of the Croatian Financial Market as a prerequisite for the success of the Croatian pension reform was initially reduced to the most demanding and most transparent quotations of the two Croatian Stock Exchanges. It's a minimum, it was a little bit when it started today, even less, it comes down essentially to Pliva and Podravka. Another way to try a reduced offer of domestic shares is to introduce a category of public stock companies and that space is just standing before us he is unused. Since 2002, the Ministry of Finance's presence in the domestic capital market has been realistically used for pension funds and has first reported in 2002 with a government bond with a maturity of 2012 denominated in euro. Since then, the Ministry of Finance has reported regularly and opened the space and has saved the concept in the realisation of the reform at all. So there have been some understanding of the necessary moves to initiate this instrumentation. The first measures were good and gave good results. Only after that is the corporate bond process opened. It started as you know in 2002 with Belisca and then a whole series of our strong respected companies got involved and I have to say that the state in that segment has contributed. I personally insisted on this and the biggest contribution that was ever made in the corporate sector was in February 2003 when the corporate bond Bina Istria d.d. was issued. Zagreb of 210m euros and these bonds sold on all the strongest global European stock exchanges, and in one segment several tens of millions of euros and here our funds are funded... The bond and the model were awarded with the highest European prizes, for the first time applied in the areas of Central and Southeast Europe. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] On this trail, of course, we also come to the return share of pension markets on growth and development so far neglected the Croatian Financial Market. This is where Mr Prtenjač spoke about the amounts, it is true that our market is still banking at this moment, that the level of the banking system is at 204 and a half billion kuna, it is true that it is 91% of the total financial market, however, followed by the insurance market, but the third at this point in power is the market for pension funds with an indicative of 7.5 billion by the end of the year, regardless of the ratio of size, the most powerful, the most qualitative, most potent market financially that Croatia has. At first glance, it doesn't seem clear. What's this about? The last government recognized the potential of the internal market. The government's responsibility for the development of infrastructure projects as a basis for the development of the economy as a whole. The development of infrastructure projects requires long-term investment, seeking capital related to 20, 25, 30 and 40 years. Our banking market is unable to respond with its manual to these requirements. In this sense, the total banking market today, let alone tomorrow, as it is growing by 2.5 billion to 3 billion a year, is not comparable to the strength and potential of the pension market with this manual, which is the most valuable that Croatia currently has as an instrument. We've given a sign, we've drawn a frame, we've shown a direction to move. I hope to be honest that this government will be able to recognize these signals and that indication. In fact, not only should the development projects of the charging roads, the highways should not be stopped, we should not stop halfway to Dubrovnik, we should not leave behind Slavonski part 5C or Rijeka part of Križišće-Juta Lokva, but neither the irrigation systems before entering the European market, for example, nor the gasification systems, nor a number of other major infrastructure projects should be left out and forgotten at the moment. On the contrary, the need for pension funds for quality investment at home will not be satisfied with the opening of space on public stock companies, it is still too small a segment, and by its manual and quality and by its size, it can only be satisfied with the opening of the privatisation process on tomorrow's realised development projects, with no need to ignore in any way the potential of already realised development projects in that part of its potential privatisation in maintenance and collection, and the profit it brings from 2014 per model, and according to current results that are more than 25% higher than expected and model projects, but since 2010 or 2012, the model should bring a surplus. Of course, in that context, I don't need to ignore it especially, because we have a united debate here. And the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute should not be ignored even the opportunities that are open here on already realised development projects. To satisfy quality shares, quality bonds, quality bonuses however you like, the presence of a pension fund not with fake and hollow and questionable shares that will be realised on 10, 12. 15 or never, but with the highest proven long-term, stable property that can be realised and converted into money and immediately. Because what's going to happen to the pensioners in 5, 10 or 15 years, is, of course, in one segment, but in one segment, it needs to give space to quality shares immediately. It's something that I'm asking the retired gentlemen to start thinking about here. And of course if you need any advice modeling at it very gladly we will give you if so far your expert teams such as one of our parties like to say so far have not worked it out. We know this as a problem, of course, and we will be very happy to show you where these areas are for the development of Croatia without public debt and additional debt, and for not quite, because it would not be rational, but partly quality satisfaction and existing debt compared to pensioners. Here, thank you very much. I don't like talking too long, so I think this will be enough. So I think it was two shorter, eight minutes than 20.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23821	Thank you very much, colleague. On behalf of the HSP Club colleague Pero Kovacevic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23822	Dear Madam Vice-Presidents, colleagues and colleagues, respected representatives of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute and... First of all, we are pleased at the Club of HSP that I am thinking first of all of the report of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute appeared in this House. And right now I have to show deep concern for the club of HSP, because this report tells us what a social situation is, what a social picture is in Croatia at the moment. And we really need to be deeply concerned especially about the fact that you can't see getting out of that situation. Here we heard the euphoric statements by Mr. Vidovic that he is delighted that much has been done in the pension reform. The truth is, it started in retirement reform. We hear Mr. Cacic offering an expert team. He was four years able, so he could sort things out on his own. And the HSP Club really has an expert team, so now we're going to tell you what this report points to. So this report points to one fact that conversion and privatisation have been carried out. Because the very fact that, say, in the '90s, we had something like 2 million insurance companies, and today we have a million 443 thousand proofs of the following. Namely, the number of 90's pensioners with 655,000 has been raised to a million and 54 thousand. So, let's say 400,000 went into retirement. But where's that 200 grand? 200 grand lost jobs? There are 200 thousand families, 200 thousand human fates. And I'm surprised at Mr. Cain's exposure that says that we won't do anything if we hire 340 thousand people. We're going to do a lot of things, because we're going to solve the 340 thousand family issue. And in this way, we will decide that the relationship between the number of insurance companies and the number of pensioners from 1.37.1 will rise to 1.7 and it has been done a lot, because then maybe you could get into a situation where at least out of the contribution you try to settle that first part of it means that pensions for the I column are paid for pensioners who are retired under general regulations. And we heard ourselves from the principal that only that amount is somewhere 77%, which is, which is collected from the contributions, and this rest is taken from the state budget. So it's already a major shift and it would be an important shift if only that part were made and then the other option was created, and that's the possibility of being able to say responsibly how and how the debt will be paid back to the pensioners that they will be compensated for what is the official name of the law. This is all at this point where this data tells us that the situation is more than alarming. She's talking next. In fact, if the average pension at this point is about 240 and 4 euros, so somewhere around 1778 kuna, it's about 44% of the average salary. And on the other hand, we have a union basket that says it's an amount of five for a four-member family of 5500 kuna. Then we see now this great disproportionateness. Four-member family, so it takes 5500. We know what the situation is with the pensioners, I can't collect that part. And what does that prove? And of those, about 600 thousand pensioners are below 214 thousand euros. And if we see what kind of separation is compared to the gross domestic retirement product at this point that it now reaches a level of 13 to 14%, a keg of domestic product, while somewhere in the 1990s it was 7.5%. And then convincing the World Bank or the IMF to the Retired Association as it is out there, 44% speaks of all of it being that there's one extra pressure going on and there's no real certainty that this one will come back, in a fair way, debt to the pensioners. And yet again, it points to another fact that there is no way out of this situation regarding the situation in the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute without new employment. Because new jobs normally open up solutions and standards and raising citizens' standards. So, what Mr. Cain says, we hire these 30,000, 40,000 people, and we'll have a much better picture in the country. On the other hand, let's take measures that the collection of contributions is not at a level of around 60% but that is a far higher amount and thus creates one stability for the work of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute related to the first pillar. The logic is when, it is known that the part, the payment of pensions according to general regulations, is to be made out of contributions. And the second part is according to special regulations, it should go from the state budget, and there's now a relationship with the number of pensioners that 84% went according to the general rules and 16% went according to special regulations. And logically in those situations that the state has tried and we are now returning to one problem, I am sorry that there is no Mr. Cacic at this time, the state has attempted to settle the debt towards the Croatian Pension Insurance Office in a way that has set up shares from the Croatian Privatisation Fund from the portfolio and has granted them to the Croatian Pension Insurance Office. And this is a logical way of trying to solve such a situation, by fertilising capital in a way that fills the fund and manages how it should be managed. But now we have seen, the first situation was that the contributions no longer go to the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute, they go through the Treasury. And now, there's already a part being created, be careful, the budget is being given to the Fund and it's not the fund, it's the budget, it's the Fund's thing, obviously there's a situation in that part of trying to always save the liquidity of the state and I think there are other reasons than these reasons that were talked about by my predecessors. And now we have an interesting situation as with this portfolio, so it's emanated, just the case of the former government's conclusion of February 22, 2001, according to which the then Ministry of Public Works, Reconstruction and Construction of meanings, from the portfolio of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute, the shares of 147 companies have been allocated, and that is, listen, half a billion kuna or about 108 million euros. And now nobody's wondering what's wrong with that. And there's more and more of that. And that's said, on the one hand, it went into reform, and on the other hand it was taken away from the Fund so that the Fund could, so that the Fund could fertilise those shares, so that it could make revenues, not sell them and charge the funds so that at least that part of the pension under the general rules that it has the right to pay. And these situations are getting more and more. It is particularly interesting, no one here has spoken, it has been doing what has been done for a long time, replacing shares between the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute and the Croatian Privatisation Fund. There seems to be a lot of vagueness here, and exactly, I'm sorry, and the director himself said he couldn't get the last report for 2003. That's the 2002 data. It all shows that there may have been various machinations and suspicious shops. And now on the one hand we have this situation that's happening to us, the situation is that the picture is alarming, everything else and we heard from fellow Milinovic, it's also in other large teams of fund-raisers. He doesn't master the attention of a good host, so he gets the paper far more expensive than it is, he'd make a public tender and everything else. What is said is that those who are there do not care about those they need to care about, about the pensioners, but who take care of themselves before. It is also the fact that we have a number of different institutions again, a large number of institutions and the same people could accuse all these institutions and HAGENU and all these various institutions that were established with the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute. It means that the situation should also be treated with the attention of a good host. And now we've got another parallel, it's that parallel that we've set aside over 50 billion kunas for the recovery of banks. So the bank's recovery of over 50 billion kuna, of which 91% of the banks are owned by foreign banks. And all this said was that few people cared about the pensioners and that now it was really a situation to draw a line and start to solve this problem in a way that contributions are paid in full on the one hand, to go to the opening of new jobs because that is the only way we will be able to fix the picture and the social position of the pensioners. If these measures are not taken in due time, we will come to a worse situation. Because we, on our way to the European Union, are going to receive a lot of new commitments and I don't know what the social situation will be like with the pensioners. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23823	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Luka Roic, on behalf of the HSS Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23824	I thank Mr. President, gentlemen of the rapporteurs, colleagues and colleagues, and so will I, on behalf of the HSS, speak of the reports we have today on the agenda. The first is the Report on the Peace Markets in the Republic of Croatia, and I can say right from the start that this report can be determined after 2002 that the Croatian pension market has been revived and functioning. Last year 2003 was the second year of the Croatian pension market. And it was mainly marked by the consolidation of the mandatory pension market because only four mandatory pension funds were welcomed from the beginning of the seven end of that year. At the end of 2003, a million 70,000 932 insurance companies were involved in compulsory pension funds. During the last year, 132.5 thousand new members were enrolled in compulsory pension funds and based on the natural growth of unemployed people, i.e. an extended circle of insurance companies that are receiving benefits from so-called ‘unemployed’. atypical work. As funds for the public education campaign in that year were reduced most of the new members to their mandatory pension funds as we know the Central Insurance Register REGOS 79.19%, while in 2002 most members 74.62% chose their own pension fund personally. REGOS passed a total of 2 billion 46 million kunas on insurance companies’ personal accounts in 2003, a year earlier of $1.91 billion, i.e. cumulatively $4.37 billion. Out of the total pension contributions paid to the Regos Passory Account in 2003, 99.6% of the funds were allocated while the cumulative payment of pension contributions to the second pillar of pension insurance amounted to 99.2% of the total amount of money paid, which was classified by the Croatian model of pension reform as we have heard from earlier speakers among the most effective in the world. And here it should be quite openly said that the reform we have spent in the last few years has been assessed with very high grades, that it is essentially implemented in a very correct way, and that we have a situation in the mandatory first pillar fund as we have that is the reason in what I will talk about later, and others have already said a lot about it. Mandatory pension funds on the financial market shall invest the collected pension contributions of members in different forms of financial assets in a way that is too heavy and in accordance with limited regulations and regulations. This process of investing pension funds as we know it is also under the watchful eye of agency staff. By investing their members' pension contributions to financial assets, pension fund managers, thanks to favourable, favourable movements in the capital market, total net assets of all funds increased to 4.68 billion kuna at the end of 2003. As for the voluntary pension market in 2002, as we heard, the first voluntary pension fund was launched to establish a new two voluntary pension companies operating with three newly-opened voluntary pension funds in 2003. In the same year, the first closed voluntary pension fund started in 2004 was formally established. While at the end of 2002, the only voluntary pension fund had 1,345 members at the end of 2003, a voluntary pension fund totaled 8000 769 members. In late 2003, 25.9 million kunas of net contributions were paid into voluntary pension funds. A year ago, we only know 3.18 million kunas. These contributions by investing in financial assets at the end of 2003 were increased to net assets totalling 29.6 million kuna and a year earlier only 3.2 million kuna. Finally, for the time being, the only pension insurance company founded in 2002 began to pay out first pensions from the new part of the pension system on a one-time basis. In all, a fully effective pension market with 4 compulsory and 4 voluntary pension funds was established in Croatia at the end of 2003, with one pension insurance company. In addition, the successful business year 2003 laid the foundations for strong and continuous growth and development of the Croatian pension market in the years to come. There has been an observation that this is about the banking system, and I could finally say with pleasure that the pension market in Croatia is becoming increasingly diversified, it is developing and, according to our assessment, it is growing successfully. Second, the second report ahead is the report on the Croatian Pensions Fund. In Croatia, as we know, pension insurance is primarily social security and is still based on the solidarity system. In the Republic of Croatia, as we have already heard a million 54 thousand 549 pensioners or pensioners, which is based on the age of being disabled, which is the death of a foster parent or a physical injury. The pensions in 2003 amounted to 13.4% of gross domestic products. The classic system of Bismarck's social security model for older people is slightly abandoned as an outdated and economically unsustainable or financially invaluable. That's why we went into reform. It is therefore necessary to encourage instead of a one-part system that is mainly based on generation solidarity so far. The three-part i.e. should be encouraged. a mixed system based on generation solidarity and on personal capitalised savings and voluntary pension insurance. Of course, these two latter pillars require great control and care of the state because one false investment can take everything into grants. I'm saying this all because of the bad and small pensions and the inability to increase them. In fact, it is a constant reduction in pensions, for example, a reduction in early pensions and all other reductions that I am not sure are correct because we always save on items where we may not need it but it is a reflection of our economic and social situation. How specific we are to young pensioners as well. Something justified in war areas above all, but mostly due to poor privatisation and popular tycunisation of Croatia, it is still quite problematic. It is true that the state, that the state was created in the ruins of the collectiveist economy and that the war left a mark on the country's economy and enormous pressure on the budget and a great need for responsibilities, and that all of this could be monitored by unemployment, there is no development strategy, and unemployment is again solved as we know by the exodus of labour force and by sending people into temporary pensions. Young people are able to retire a lot. Some are even driven, and today we have a situation that at a million 443 thousand 959 insurance companies comes a million 54 549 pensioners, which is as we hear 1,37:1 employees, retired. This unfavourable ratio where 1.37 employees on each pensioner on a longer period is as we all know unsustainable. The same goes for health care. This ratio could not bear a much richer country. We had a practice of non-payment as well as pension insurance by employers. For the illustration, I would like to point out that the ratio of the insurance company in 1985 was 3,68:1 or significantly worsened in 1993 and 1994. I know it was, that there was war at the time, but I remember in the war it was still necessary to think about privatisation in another way, and we know that sometimes war is a brother. Because at that time in Croatia, we remember, it was bagging and some were allowed to come to the property they bought not to restore jobs but mainly to manipulate and sell. In these situations, workers remain a burden, and under quotes, they are getting rid of early retirement, which is still very poor for these young pensioners, both for their financial situation and for their spiritual situation. Because today you have a situation where, according to the 40 to 50-year-old population, it's completely segregation, and it's perfectly legal because if you want to get a job, they don't stand a chance. All regrettably seek only young people who, who can make good use of them and hire them on black certainly if they can't do otherwise. Not only do we have young pensioners but we are also specific to the number of disability pensions, although that is, of course, the result of the bad circumstances we were in. I said something about this before. The economy is shaken. They're lost, the market's lost, the market's lost. Headhunters flew all over Croatia and bought what was offered to them and not knowing what would happen to what we all witnessed, and these are frequent bankruptcys, a river of young pensioners, which in the early retirement pension. Mirovinski can't trace the financial inflow, and that's where the piles start and pile up problems and responsibilities. There have been almost insolvent problems in Mirovinski. By reducing employment, the number of contributors has been reduced. The state must take loans to monitor the costs of pension and social and all of this is chain-bound, the economy is unfortunately failing, and they are being renewed, economic, economic processes are being renewed, economic resources are not being renewed, the industry is not being restructured, and it is all one vicious circle and it is increasingly being questioned. The economy, as we know, is an exact sweat, and there's not a lot of deviations, all the same ones came to collect. What is the paying ability of our pensioners who have done their full-time work and have filled the funds of their entire working life. Their wage capacity is low, they can barely cover their life expenses, or wait for help from children if they are lucky to have their children working. Their situation is very humiliating, and not appropriate. About 94,000 864 pensioners make the lowest pension, somewhere around 1000 kuna. But there are about 7620 people with a pension of 8025 kn. How to provide them with carefree age. According to the calculation of the union baskets for pensioners for the September month was about 3 and a half thousand kuna. And now we're wondering how a pensioner can survive a month. Our pensioners have to say this here pure wizards and survival artists. If by any chance the pensioners had received a portfolio of finances it would have been the right move because with what little we have, everything would have been measured if we had rationalized it as with pensions. At the time of the Croatian Spring 70th, we had 65% salary with a 14-15% contribution rate and today it is $40 salary, with a 20% contribution rate. And it's not enough especially with this ratio damaged young pensioners. A great injustice has also been made according to the pensions of low-income farmers, and insufficient for all needs, and that is not enough, but has also reduced the number of users and that is because we are abolishing the right to provide family members with what seems to be a major injustice to these households. I'm going to mention here a child's allowance that uses 259 thousand, 911 users because it's still the right of parents and not children. For 490 thousand 884 children with an average rate of approximately 285.12 kuna. And that is the amount that we want to improve the demographic picture of Croatia. As regards children's allowances, I would draw attention to another one of our curiosities, requests for children's allowance to the Croatian Pension Insurance Office. He solves them and issues solutions, solves complaints, but a state-run youth and children family office is established that only plays a transfer role. I do not understand why the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute does not complete the work that it does. And we, instead of getting rid of the massive administrations that only spends, are constantly piling them up. As we in the Parliament get the results of our audits, so we've recently witnessed irregularities I think we're talking about in 2000 that's exactly the number of irregularities I've remembered from the Bureau. This was used by shopping services for food, carts for services, cars, cards for use were unwarranted, computers disappeared and, unfortunately, the same lady was proposed by our minister. So he's trying to reinstall himself into the leadership post. I guess he wants to be rewarded for the successful spending of other people's money. I don't see any justification for the existence of this institution. The Croatian Pension Insurance Azvod has when it works for children's allowance solutions it can even send money to users. And for that part of the job, he won't need warm hopes for either car or car, and not all the other things we've had a chance to hear. The business of the Croatian Pension Investment Society, a limited-responsibility society in 2002, was positive and profit was achieved and I hope that the upcoming trend will continue. This same society is 100% state-owned and this state-owned institution must use all possible control mechanisms and constant supervision. Croatia's pension insurance has more unresolved claims from the Croatian Institute of the Croatian Privatisation Fund, for the established shares. Sometimes these shares were transferred in favour of the Croatian Privatisation Fund, the result of these transactions is more allocated shares in favour of the Croatian Privatisation Fund than I would say close to a million kuna. The unresolved situation between the Croatian Privatisation Fund and the Institute is due to an uncoordinated share due to ownership problems due to court disputes. A significant number of shares have been allocated to the movement of capital expenditure of the Ministry of Public Works, Reconstruction and Construction. Many of these reports can be read, one thing is for sure the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute without such a reform and without establishing an even stronger pension market, unfortunately, could not have gotten far. This is how we hope that the future and future pensioners and current pensioners are in the new tax reform of the pension system, which I hope is still going. And that will seem to me to bring back the results. But the problems with the pension institution are great, and I think that's something to be seriously warned about. And there must be ways to overcome the problems that have arisen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23825	Thank you very much. The clubs have exhausted their call. We're going to an individual debate. Dear Representative Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23826	Thank you very much, Mr. President. When it comes to the report of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute, then it should be immediately at the start of saying and that is a traditionally good report. Transparently, neatly, contentally. What I would dare to say is, I'd like to have luck with a time recording of the position of the retirement population in society today. But what's like that X-ray is actually an excellent basis for analysing the reasons that lead to today's pensioner position. When that is the case, it becomes quite clear how unrealistic promises are that the position of the pensioners can be quickly and easily repaired only if the pensioners or their representatives agree with this or that political option. On the other hand, it becomes quite clear when this report is read how naive expectations are that this is exactly what will happen. The fairy tales are told to the pensioners a day. Daytime. This morning, the incumbent Prime Minister said the government has increased 4% of this year's pensions. It is the most common harmonisation of pensions with the increase in nominal net wages, according to a law that has been 15 years old. You've been doing this for 15 years. Two times a year, it's synchronised. Because it's the law. And you see, when there was that payout in the paper, I remember on the headlines, Vlada increased pensions 4% of HSU satisfied. What the government shouldn't abide by the laws, not harmonize pensions, so someone can be uninvited. These are fairy tales that are myths that are constantly repeated in our society, instead of looking facts into our eyes, and the facts are mentioned in this report. Let's look at these facts. Let's take a look at these valuable charts. The graph of all charts is located right at the beginning of the 7th page. he talks about the ratio of the number of insurance and pensioners. And there it is quite clear that these two lines are approaching tragically over the last decade, approaching one other number of fail-safes, and the number of users is increasing. And that's where it's been said a million times, from one to three relationships when three employees supported 1 pensioners, today we've come to a dangerous, catastrophic relationship, almost one to one. 1.36 to 1. Can't have 1 employee supporting 1 pensioner, can't produce so much value that one society can afford. We only see one minimal but signifying, encouraging improvement here in 2003, from 1.36 to 1.37. Not that small percentage, this small improvement will not improve the state of pensioners, but it shows that it means in 2000, 2001 and 2002 that efforts have been made to make the drop in the number of insurance companies supporting 1 pensioners change and that these efforts have begun to produce results. That's what's encouraging. Another unusually interesting chart is the number of new users of old and business pensions. Here we see a curve that shows one significant jump, 90 and 91. New pensioners. We have heard here, a representative of the distinguished colleague of the Retirement Party, justice by war, the loss of the Yugoslav market in general, for other reasons. Well, we know and the war is to blame, of course and the loss of market and privatisation as well as the tycounization and loss of jobs, we know all that, but look, it started 90. 90 wasn't a war yet. There are reasons, when a large number of people are sent to retirement, young people, a working-age population, to get rid of them, to move them out of the work system. To get them out of position, he didn't exactly want to fire himself, so they retired as young people. There's only one damage done. It's not just about rematchism right now. It doesn't matter. One damage that will last for decades, because these are young people. They will live for decades and burden the system. There's a tragedy about that. What's the damage, let's make a note on page 17. It was purchased for about 56,000 insurance companies in total 190.000 years of internships. 190.000 years of 90 years of training. So you know how many contributions they would have paid if they'd all worked together for 190.000 years? It's not 19 years or 190 years, 190.000 years. That's the facts. What did that lead to? It's a disaster again. To this end, up to a table on page 11 where we see that the pensioners now existing pensioners under the age of 60 are 22.1, over 22%. And the normal retirement age would be 65 years. It's a huge number of pensioners, actually young working people who will again, I repeat, burden the funds for years, while their pensions are paid off. And where does that all lead us now? It brings us to the table on page 15, and it speaks about the proportion of the average pension in the average net salary in Croatia. In 87, that was almost 80%. The average pension was 80% of the average net salary in Croatia. So that's how it was about 88th, and then it was about that level, and then 89th, and then 90th, when it started to fall, but then the 91st drastic drop, one jump, and then it fell for years, it fell, it fell, it fell, it fell, it fell, until it fell 99th to below 40%. What are the causes of this? The causes are all of these tables that we just went through. That's the cause. Now, what do you do? First, you have to stop talking fairy tales. About someone increasing pensions when they meet the legal obligation, so the pension rises 4%. Then two, you don't have to cheat. Because in a stand-by arrangement with the IMF, the government created, made a commitment that pensions would be in line in the future not with nominal wage growth, but with real wage growth, while at the same time taking the obligation to make no real wage growth. She made a commitment to the IMF that pensions grow at 0%. That's what we need to be aware of, not because we're going to sleep with the government, no, no, but to tell the pensioners the truth, that there's no fairy tale. There's nothing to hope for from the fund. First of all, they didn't take the pensioners' shares and get their shares back. Their pensions were taken, their money was taken. That fund, that fund, will not be able to raise so many, so many shares of such quality, that it can repay that debt. In addition, look, these shares are promised both to defenders and workers and to many other groups. And what do we have left? Hope for economic growth. Because only economic growth can create new jobs, only new jobs can pay contributions, only from this fund can alimony pensions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23827	Thank you. We have a few replicas. First, honourable representative Ivan Jarnjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23828	Your Honor, Mr. President. It did not begin in the '90s that were later caused, and this was an increase in the number of pensioners, and the proportional growth of pensioners logically led to the need and much more money being allocated to keep that relationship between employees, salaries of employees and pensioners. It began much, much earlier, technological lagging, problems in the economy, technological surplus workers, already in the 80s there were a large number of technological surpluses of workers, and they were looking for ways to retire these people, so it was very popular for some time, to go into disability pensions, and later there was a buy-in of pensions, which was again not paid enough for the part that should have been charged later when the pensions started to pay off, so it was 90s a large part of the people who fell to the burden of the Croatian state, and did not pay their pensions to the Croatian pension fund, and then the normal war led to the fall of gross social income, and that logically it could not have been followed by this relationship that was, which you were talking about 88, 89, 87, 87, that he was 92, 3, 5. This does not mean that there is no responsibility left in future generations and I agree with you, that only an increase in gross national income and an increase in the number of employees can get us out of this relationship again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23829	Thank you. Replicate response, distinguished representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23830	Dear Representative Jarnjak, but I'm just reading charts that say, on page 8, you have the number of new users where you see that it was in 85, about 15 grand, 86 fell to 10,000, 87 went up to 18, 88 on 20, 89 again a little bit, so that the 90th would suddenly jump to 45 thousand new, and 91s to 65 thousand new. One big jump. Interestingly, after that one fall again. So we can interpret this graph differently. Here in this written text, not all the reasons why it is, we are now speculating about them. But the fact remains that in times of war, there was a drastic increase in retirement before objective, objective circumstances occurred in the 1990s. People have just been massively retired and created a problem that lasts and will be burdened by this country for years.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23831	Thank you. Next replica, the esteemed representative Maria Byte.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23832	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In his debate, Mr. Stazic said that fairy tales are that 4% increase in pensions. This is incorrect and I cannot agree with this part of Mr. Stazic's debate, because if there were no positive business in the Republic of Croatia and salary increases there would be no harmonisation of pensions and it is indeed a real 4% increase, these are not fairy tales. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23833	Thank you. Replicate response, distinguished representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23834	When I said fairy tale, then maybe you didn't understand me very well, dear colleague Byte. Then I said it was a fairy tale that it was portrayed as a special gesture by the government towards the retirement population. The government has increased pensions. The government did not increase pensions, but the government fulfilled the law that these pensions must be aligned with nominal wage growth. And this Mrs. Byte, nominal growth was not 4% for how much pensions were increased but 6.1% and if we are to tell the very full truth, the government did not increase pensions but did not bring them into line to the extent to which it had a legal obligation and that was a serious reason for the Croatian party of pensioners to file a lawsuit with the court, sued the government for failing to comply with the law, not even to praise it for the government's increasing pensions 4% and that's Mrs. Byte's fairy tale. A fairy tale like the one about the Red Hood.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23835	Next replica, Honored Representative of Plesko Vladimir.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23836	Your Honor, Mr. President. Dear fellow Mr. Stazic spoke about the causes of today's problem in the pension system, about too little pensions, but I must remind myself that we should not look at history in the way Mr. Stazic has tried several times in this House to show that there is only 45th to 90th or 2000th to 2003. The history of Croatian people and Croatian pensioners exists before 90 years ago, and then there would have to be other than tycunisation which may be a problem and which will create some problems in the future, we must also remind ourselves of everything that happened before 90th. I must remind myself that in the 1990s, the empty pension system funds were taken over. We have to remind ourselves that he was an unreal number of employees, that several people were employed in one job, which also led to problems in the filling of pension funds. But I also have to remind myself that practically in the 1980s there was no investment in the technological improvement of the economy, and when the economy stagnates, it simply cannot be invested and pension funds cannot be filled. I must also remind Mr. Stazic that the reasons for many of these are that, because of this low-accumulated production in the Republic of Croatia, there has also been the fact that, with the agreement of some who are sitting here today in this House, profits have been used in some other republics of another country, and today we have problems in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23837	Replicate response, distinguished representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23838	Oh, look at your esteemed colleague. When it's replicated, it should still be on the facts. What empty pension funds you're talking about, forgive me, but completely unfounded and in my mind. The legal obligation was to keep the pension funds in stock for three months in advance, and they fulfilled that legal obligation in contrast to forgiveness, but you're making me feel bad, unlike this government that doesn't meet the legal obligation to coordinate pensions. Three months they had to have a stash, one thing. The second thing, so all pensions were then paid just out of funds and nothing else, and at a lower rate of contribution, a larger number of pensioners. But, dear God, these are the facts that you need to know something about when you've already decided on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23839	And another replica, the respected representative of Bozica Šolić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23840	Dear Mr. President, I must remind my colleague, Stazic, in his presentation, which he pointed out repeatedly in the 1990s and said that the pension fund had stagnated during that period from 90th to earlier. However, I will remind him of what is also in the report, that the pension fund stagnated in 85, 85 years ago when HDZ was not even in the bandages, and from this report I will remind him and quote in the report that on 22 February 2001 the Government reached a coalition conclusion with which it was given, benefited, and that conclusion was in favour of the Ministry of Public Works, Reconstruction and Construction, according to the data provided by the Fund. That shares were sold or shares in the office in 97 companies of nominal value. To this day, there is no return to the Bureau's claim. On 12 October 2001, the Administrative Board of the Institute referred to the Government of Croatia a request to determine the compensation, i.e. the compensation of the office for the shares sold out to cover the capital expenditure of the Ministry of Public Works. From this I conclude that the former government has damaged the institution, and this is Mr. Stazic's actual condition, and that's why these charts of yours you keep mentioning in your presentation have been dropping rapidly. There, that's a fact. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23841	Thank you. Replicate response, distinguished representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23842	First of all, those aren't my charts. They're not my charts. These are the charts of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute sent by the government here to the Parliament, so that's the first thing. The second thing, I didn't say HDZ was the sole culprit for 90 years and made the pensioner's position worse. In fact, I said, there was a war, there was a loss of the Yugoslav market which is an objective circumstance, there was privatisation for which the HDZ bears responsibility and there was an increased number of unwarranted retirements, which I also believe is the responsibility of the HDZ. And as for this government decision you quote, yes, yes, yes, it was the government's decision to now give the shares of all these companies to the management fund. Why? For the Lord Pasalic and some of them have wept with them, traded, muttering. To end it, everything was given to the fund, so that the withdrawal of the assets would be interrupted. It was the government's decision and she gave positive effects, positive effects. Well, you should commend the government for doing this, or perhaps you're sorry that Mr. Pasalic and the company couldn't touch it any more.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23843	Ladies and gentlemen, there are six MPs and representatives left for these agenda points. It's 18 and 56 now, so we'd like to continue with this topic tomorrow. The first is the respected representative Željka Antunović, after which the representative Ruža Lelic, and Zvonimir Mršić, Nikola Sopčić, Dragutin Pukleš, Bozica Šolić. Please also Director of the Agency Mr. Dragan Kovacevic and Director of the Pension Insurance Office Mr. Rukavina to be in the assembly tomorrow at 9:30 to continue this debate. At 9:30, follow-up. Ladies and gentlemen, we will proceed with the session. Report on pension markets in the Republic of Croatia and on the work of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute of both 2003. It is up to the respected representative Zeljka Antunovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23845	Thank you very much, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. Here, in a bit of shadow I am announcing outside of one major event of the amendment of the Law on the Rights of Defence, there is a debate that definitely has far more difficult and far greater weight for Croatia and far wider and longer-term consequences. It's guided by my deep conviction in a very unusual but worrying way. In fact, we are here in the Assembly of People coming from different backgrounds, coming from different professions, and we really don't have to understand each subject being discussed here, but the fact that this issue was discussed not only yesterday, but also at committee meetings before is really worrying. They've heard, like, debates in style, actually this is all very suspicious, this pension system, pension reform, it smells like a big scam to us, it's going to be somebody else playing financial engineering and laundering money. I must admit that I was amazed at something like that, especially for anyone who, even the most evil one who had read both of these reports, who otherwise had nothing to do with each other, could not draw even closer, but rather, the completely opposite conclusion. And that's why I'm wondering what it's really about. Is it really our obsession that we have to be against everything that we've been involved in, even if it was the most recognizable and successful state, not only state-owned, but certainly state-run project that's been done in this area normally, in the last not few years but many, many years. It was a project that succeeded precisely because it had continuity, which the change of political power did not bring it down but continued to develop. It was a project that was probably not ruled out by politicisation and political debates, but thanks to the dedicated work of experts, dedicated work by people who come from miles of state administration, dedicated work and clear visions of those who led the project, it succeeded and became very recognizable, not only the praised export product of Croatia, but also the product they wish to implement in other countries of Europe. Because there are no only Croatia problems with the pension system, all countries have it, and the richest countries have it because of demographic changes and because of the economic changes that have taken place over the last decade. However, this is today, and unfortunately not even in this House at all. On the contrary, a discussion of two reports, one Report on the Budget Fund, and the second report on the results of a project that has nothing to do with budget money, is about an innovative financial project related to economic development and growth. A project that opens up space to this government and to any subsequent government for a whole series of better structure of the state budget, a project that, with great effort but still made a significant step in the area of financial markets, is also called the pension market. The project, which has ensured that the government today has a place to borrow from home, does not have to run abroad for every kuna. When we talk about the Pension Fund Report, then we also see that there are a number of facts there and that the shifts and steps in favour of the pensioner, no matter how insignificant they were in terms of their easy life, are great. Peace that was not paid in due time, the large debt of the pension fund and the state budget in loans to banks, the large interest paid by the pension fund, the completely insecure payments, the delay of those pensions, the inability to comply with those pensions with the law, that was the state that insisted. And today, this report shows that despite the cost of pension reform being paid every year for 2 and a half billion, an additional 2 billion for correction and an increase in pensions and that pensions were regularly harmonised as the law and regulations of that moment were prescribed. The peace markets or this second report, which I think is definitely very important, are being discussed as if it were a social project. I hope that the Minister of Finance, Minister of Economy, Minister of Intergenerational Solidarity, has read the report well, the HAGENE report because it is very educational. It can read a direction that will further develop many policies in Croatia. Listening to this debate, listening to how important work is ignored otherwise in creating some projects for the future, as it is ignored in planning tax reforms, where under public pressure, tax relief is given away, but they are therefore reduced and not forgotten that these tax reliefs in the direction of private insurance, and pension reform implies forms of private insurance, that something that has spurred the development, development of private, additional, supplementary insurance, is definitely something that is the basis of a new momentum for Croatia's economic development as a whole. I don't see any recognition. Unfortunately, I recognize a whole series of efforts to achieve results that are not final to continue through both the system and the accumulation of funds to develop, to actually challenge and collapse. Word is, for now, only in professional circles, but with great fear of a new system of united collection of budget revenues. It is ignored that part of the system has been established, that it has been paid, that the result, that it is paid cheap because it is the result of domestic knowledge and expertise. And now because I don't know whose interests, unfortunately small interests in some tax administration where officials dictate what happens, that means to stop the development of an existing system, and probably reverse it, and what consequences for collecting income on it I don't want to think about right now. Here's our cruel reality, it shows how much important things are ignored that should be discussed here in the Parliament. How successful they are, and even when they are very successful, we’re not all involved, hiding from the public and ignoring them. However, if this continues, it will all come to the charge of those who do so today, those who ignore the quality basis they inherited and who are in the interests of Croatia and in the interests of the citizens, the social, economic development, the financial development of this country, will develop and continue. I'm still hoping, since at least, in the presentations on behalf of the biggest party club here, I recognize that there are no concepts to be confused even though the members of that big club do not chase concepts but say things that are completely unimaginable and that can cause even panic, if there were any grounds. My colleagues and colleagues, I hope we will continue to discuss this. Some laws come from the government, which unfortunately will not continue to develop this project, but will probably stop it and slow it down, and perhaps defuse it. And finally, I must say that I hope that something valuable that has been done in Croatia will not be seen in Croatia, being obstructed, but that as a model, it will be successfully implemented in some other European countries.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23846	Thank you. Dear representative, Ruža Lelic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23847	Thank you, Mr. President, esteemed rapporteurs, colleagues and colleagues. Well, I would tell my colleague Antunovic if I noticed the importance of this report and this financial market in the pension system. Well, even though I'm not an economist, I tried to study it and something, here's what I'm talking about. This report is really extensive, but it's transparent, and I'm only going to look at certain segments. But I would like to say right away here at the beginning and remind myself of yesterday that Croatia inherited a pension system with a large level of rights with unfavourable movements in the economy, and that the war and transition from socialist to market economy with a poorly formed pension system and ageing population must also be highlighted, further worsened the situation and brought the Croatian pension system into crisis. So I'd like to stop here a little bit and say here now that we're constantly polluting is that the success of this past government is that we have a good report and that, in fact, the market has come to life. That a comprehensive reform of the pension system began in 98 and 99, with a fundamental aim of establishing an economic sustainable system that would ensure social security for the risks of age, disability, death of family feeders, and shifting responsibility from a country that has actually been the only guarantee of social security to an individual who should be more concerned about this same social security. When we talk about social security, it is certainly not satisfactory for a large part of the pensioners because, according to the data, about 480 thousand of them or 47.3 receives a pension under a thousand and 500 kuna. But we have to admit that when you find yourself without a job and without receiving such security, it's very good for you. The average age pension with the addition of these 100 plus 6%, which is basically one shift this year, is a thousand and 905 kuna, and the proportion of such fixed pensions, means, on average, a net salary of 48.4%. While that was 65 in the '70s and late 80s, it means 80% with a reduced rate of contribution. But I think it's primarily a reflection, so an unfavourable ratio of the number of insurance and pensioners. Perhaps just to say that the average disability pension is even smaller, thousands of 519 kuna and participates with 38.6 average net wages, and the family means 37.3. I would remind here, so that the reform began in 98 and 99, according to the World Bank model, instead of a one-part public system, were based on generational solidarity and reciprocity to introduce this three-part system, which we heard, so, II. and III. It's a post. The reform was necessary because there is both decisive and economic and development significance in the social pension system. It would still point out here, meaning that in 2003, the costs of the pension system were 13.4 gross social product, while the average in OECD countries was about 10% of gross social product and that this is actually the last few years of this kind of separation, was one of the significant factors in public consumption growth. We have a case here, as is the case in health care, to single out a really high percentage of what we have, but it's actually a little bit since our gross social product is smaller. We have already said yesterday, so it would not repeat that it is financed from the contribution and from the revenues from the state budget which, behold, fills the pension expenditures achieved under more favourable conditions and, and finance less caused by the lower contributions in the 1st pillar and that this payment from the state budget is 43.6%. So no one can easily understand the functioning of the pension system as he said yesterday, as the gentleman said, easy and fast, that it can be easily and quickly repaired and fairy tales spoken. I don't think it really says no one talks fairy tales or gets excited that they can fix something quickly and easily because the total expenditures of pension insurance, generation solidarity were 24, 691 billion, including these pensions achieved under special regulations. And when it comes to pensions under special regulations, then let's just think right now that it's just us Parliamentarians. However, happiness is far more so. So that the total number of beneficiaries of these pensions on 31.12.2003 was 176,000,532, and the average pensions ranged depending on the group, from a thousand,620 to 7000 and 953 kuna. I would only count here perhaps the largest groups of those pensions. These are NOB participants 67 thousand 206, former JNA 14000 400 and Croatian defenders 32,000. What's certainly extremely worrying is the number of pensioners. Here's the ratio of the number of pensioners and insurance companies. In the past decade, it has been continuously reduced to stop in the last few years at 1:1,36 to 1:1,37, whereas in 1990, this ratio was 1:3 and where luck is now so. The biggest inflow of these new users was in 99. The material in the text says that it is 82 thousand while in the table, the graph reads a number of 62 thousand 449. I don't know what the information is from taking it as relevant. And what's the reason for that? Here yesterday in the debate tried to impose how for 10 years it forced people to retire and it was all a reflection of that policy, and now for 4 years such a policy has been implemented to stop it all and so on. However, the situation is far more complex. We need to know that in 99 years, that it was the last year when it was, it was both the transitional year and the last one when it was taken to calculate the 10 most favourable years. So many wanted to use that right. Later, the age limit gradually increased, thus reducing the inflow into the pension system. Also, with the amendments to the law, I would like to say that, therefore, all those who had reduced their working ability, as we say, or that they were either part-time, that they were translated into disability pensions, which significantly increased the number of pensioners. Also, many of them found a solution to their existence, many of them at the Employment Service. I also know many exiles and refugees who have had such a status and means this translation into disability pension for them has been quite favourable, so many social issues have been resolved in this way. Then, here, you'd point out the average retirement rate. I think that's important, too. For age pensioners that he is 31 years old while for disabled 23, and here, that our pensioners, means users of retirement use it for 15 years, on average, and disabled 18 years. Also highlighted in public debates and so our pensioners are young, so I would say that the average age of users of age pensions for women is 65 years and for men 68, for disabled people it is slightly lower than 59 and 60 years. Also, here I would refer a little bit to the work of professional services, we see that indeed a large number of cases arrive at the office and that in 2003 it was 584 thousand and 754 to be successfully solved 91. When we talk about the percentage of those unresolved, then we think it's small if it's 885, but if it's about, when it's about an absolute number, then it's still significant and it's 51 thousand and 738. When it comes to medical skills, which is the closest thing to me because I have participated for years not as a member but as a representative in these committees later, then I was a little surprised that on 31 December 2003, only 39 witches were in the Office of Arts. In the first degree, and that they solved 92.5% of the total of nearly 50,000 requests, these are medical skills in the second degree, which was also effective with almost 90% while here the expert review committee and disability assessment solved 98% of the 12 thousand demand and something. Due to the large inflow of pensioners, witches must be strict guards of entry and this applies to these disability pensions and it is now known that really disabled pensions are much harder to obtain, so there are complaints of patients and doctors of family medicine, meaning that it is extended after several years of sick leave and there are complaints of waiting for solutions for months. In the end, I accept this report and I see that my time is running out, so I would just refer to these few words about the Croatian Pension Market. That last year for pension funds was very important both in the investment sense and in the growth of the number of insurance companies. I can see that I won't just say it anymore, maybe just to say that the rapid and stable growth in assets was also the number of members of the pension fund.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23848	My colleagues, please finish.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23849	Okay. Thank you, I accept both reports.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23850	Honorable representativeplatimir Mršić. He's gone. He's losing his word. Honorable representative Nikola Sopčić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23851	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian Pension Insurance Institute report last 2003 shows that the ratio between insurance and pensioners is only 1.37:1 which is a negative trend that continues practically year after year, so in 85 when it was 3,68:1 today it is very worrying. The truth yesterday mentioned and pointed out that this ratio is something and improved from 2002 when it was 1.36:1 means improvement is for 1.01 which is pretty thin given that we remember the stories of 200 thousand new jobs it is not very encouraging, but more reasons such a defeating data it is age has nothing, early pensions and the same problem is that we have a situation that most employees may not be most but a good part registered to a minimum personal income which is very often in private employers, especially in employers where they employ more labour as textiles and so on. The difference in income is usually obtained in cash, in hands, it is explained to workers that in this way they get more, which is generally not true but ends up in the employer's pocket, but because people can't choose in principle, they are forced to accept such a relationship. Only the report is very extensive and very detailed, but the report relating to the part of the insurance company, it's agricultural insurance, I think it's a lot of crutch, so I'd like to point out for this segment of the insurance company a long time ago, it's about insurance companies for farmers who went into agricultural retirement up to 31. 12. In 1998, their pension today ranged from 400 to 500 kuna, while from farmers of pensioners who retired after that date their pension was essentially twice as large as around 1000 kuna. And 1,000 kuna is not much, but this lower pension is even below social income, so I think it would be correct when it's possible for that injustice to be corrected by that category of insurance company. We have a reverse case in labor pensions, so pensioners who retired after 12. 12. In 2000, they had a reduced pension compared to pensioners who had retired before that date. Only the 2003 report shows very detailed resolution of pension insurance rights and we see that the percentage of outstanding claims is close to 17%, which is an improvement compared to previous years, but this is still a very large percentage. It is also interesting to note that I was somewhat surprised and this was mentioned by my colleague Lelic, about pensioners who make their pension under more favourable conditions, such as the ratio of pensioners of NOB participants and Croatian defenders 2:1. The NOB participant has 68 thousand 206 users while Croatian defenders 32 thousand 249. The report itself is very detailed, extensive and I think it should be accepted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23852	Thank you. Dear Representative Dragutin Pukleš.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23853	Mr. President, gentlemen representatives of the Institute Fund and respected MPs. I will try to refer to the part of the Report relating to the portfolio of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute. Namely, through the portfolio of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute, the Croatian Fund for Privatisation is the Croatian Fund for the Foundation of Share Management Contracts and Business Shares. The question of why and how? This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Law on Conversion, the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute has become the owner of a number of units and a share with the purpose of providing capital in part of the asset to pay off current pensions. However, although the Institute has owned it before, and even now, there is the view that it is a government portfolio and that the Institute has nothing to decide on. During the exchange of shares, the Croatian Privatisation Fund was transferred to the Institute's shares, and only some smaller shares of less value were transferred to the Fund, and shares of Plava Laguna, Hotel Park, Podravka, Croatia Insurance were to be transferred. However, it turns out that the Fund of those shares does not have or cannot dispose of them, so the debt of the Fund to the Institute of 914 million kunas of nominal value for which we do not yet know how the Office will receive and which shares on the basis of this claim. Furthermore, the PIF was transferred to the PIF by a number of shares of the Institute such as Puntizela, then Liburnija, Opatija, Jadran film Zagreb, Koestlin Bjelovar and some others, and received from the PIF society before bankruptcy, so it changed well for the bad. Furthermore, transactions from the Office’s portfolio go through the account of the Croatian Privatisation Fund, so at the time the Fund’s account was blocked, there was a payment of dividends from Pliva of 50 million kuna paid by Pliva to the owner of the shares, therefore to the Institute, but the funds therefore went to the benefit of the PIFs. Well, isn't that a little weird how that payment came at the time of the blockage of that account? Further, ideas were also heard that from the portfolio of the Office of Shares were given into this Fund which should be formed by law under the Constitutional Court's decision. However, I don't know how one share could be given to the same structure twice what they're going to say would be considered. In fact, when we have it all in mind, it is high time for the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute to become the real owner who can handle this capital, because that capital is also intended to provide certain income to the Pension Insurance Office to settle the expenditure on the basis of current pensions. So we have a situation that is known to the owner and of course you know who the consumables are, dividends from that property. Therefore, it should be set as it should be and as originally intended. In this way, of course, we can provide certain revenue to ensure the payment of current pensions. This is also true for the capital fund. First, let me tell you a little more about some other questions. Although this report did not address the issue of this famous debt to the pensioners, I would like to say that these discussions that we have so far had regarding debt repayment simply represent some kind of mental relationship towards debt recovery and there are such proposals that are simply not serious. That's why I'd like to ask especially Mr. Caine who made a proposal yesterday that really represents only stories that simply don't have a basis and I don't know what they're really serving. And so does everyone else. The question of debt says we can't solve it like this. Gentlemen, there are three of us from this structure in the Parliament, if the 30 of us would have solved that debt already. Therefore, I would ask that we do not use retirement problems in our own advertising of our own political views or anything else. And you'd also be begging all of us here if someone has a really serious idea of how and in what way to pay that debt back, we're going to operate on giving expertise to professional people, and we're going to see how and how that can be solved. As far as insinuation is concerned, the government will trick you, these will trick you, etc. I wouldn't say cheat, I'd say not commit. In any case, it can happen, there's no dilemma in that. But it's an integral part of the political struggle, and we just all have to take part in it together. Therefore, not to owe on debt, because on the issues discussed in this report, debt is not the main problem of Croatian pensioners. The main problem according to the report is current pensions and pension system conditions. I don't know how much it's worth saying that our pension system has served as some kind of mutual assistance register that solves economic problems, social problems, unemployment problems for years, and that's how we came into this situation. And I have to say 400 thousand pensioners who are on the ground, and this way of using the pension system came into a position that they had become pensioners before they had to, it's simply something else that needs to be taken care of when talking and discussing the issue of the pension system at all. So this should be treated in another way, we need to know what happened, and why is this such an unfavorable relationship between the workers and the pensioners? It's a question that deserves a special debate that we don't have time for today. However, allow one thing. It was mentioned here, says you shouldn't play with the pension system. I totally agree that we shouldn't play with the pension system. But what have we been doing for years? We have been playing with the pension system for years, including this pension reform that we praise on all our mouths. I wouldn't want to elaborate here what she means and what she represents. But there's something else I'd like to say. Just like we don't have to play with the pension system, we don't even have to play with people. Gentlemen, we've been playing with millions of people for eight or ten years, and they're living people, they're not bowling pins that one ball move can wipe out, and that's exactly what's happening in all these partial procedures. And not to be too long, I still have to say something about all these procedures and the new pension system. Namely. ... Okay, I've got to get on with the second part. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Excuse me!
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23854	You answered on behalf of the club? ... Yeah, five minutes on behalf of the club. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Correction of the incorrect allegations by the respected representative Zeljka Antunovic. Excuse me, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23855	A colleague has just discussed an important problem with the pension system, the structure problem and the management of the stock portfolio. He mentioned the current problems the Pension Fund has with the Privatisation Fund, the PIFs and some other institutions in this context. However, he ignored one of my most important problems as to the outcome of these problems which are now being solved and which are definitely less burdensome for the pension fund than they were in 2000. He neglected the robbery of shares of the pension fund that took place in the period 95-2000 because that converted crime was not largely conducted through the Privatisation Fund, but right through pension funds that were out of the public eye and supervision. He mentioned a colleague, Kovacevic, and yesterday, in a debate over some of the shares. This is where a number of investigations are being conducted in the courts, and we will see how many parties of the pensioners are going to argue that this is clear to the end because it is complex disputes. Also, it has been said that the main problem is current pensions. I have to correct it a little bit. They were really a problem, they weren't there, they weren't in sync, they were in violation of the law. However, the system has been stabilised in the meantime but threatens to destabilise it again. The current changes that are announced that I must admit, don't mind me, and the result of this current coalition will a little strangely disrupt and threaten to disrupt the stability and sustainability of the system of intergenerational solidarity of the first pillar, but unfortunately, it will violate this system of the second and third pillars, which means another million and 400 thousand insurance companies, 14 billion accumulated funds and very high capitalisation and long-term security of future pensioners. What the current government currently insists on will ruin and destabilise both the first and third pillars.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23856	Dear representative Bozica Šolić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23857	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear gentlemen, this report is very extensive and I will refer to some of the details of this report and remind the Croatian public and all of us that the pension fund is one of the most important social security systems in the Republic of Croatia in which more than a million pensioners and members of their families realize their social security and it is most important that we discuss it today. The reform of the pension system initiated by the Croatian Democratic Community government in 98th was tasked with creating an economic sustainable system that would ensure the social security of the pension population. Introducing a three-part public private system based on generation solidarity and individual capital savings. Since January 99, the application of the first level of compulsory pension insurance on the basis of generation solidarity and the application of the second part of the pension system, i.e. the second and third levels of compulsory pension insurance, has started on the basis of individual capitalised savings and voluntary pension insurance on the basis of individual capitalised savings. Let's remember in the '80s, the pension system was in crisis. For example, the 85th relationship between pensioners and employees was 1 to 3.68 and already in 91st year was 1 to the 2.56th. In 2002, the ratio is 1 to 1.36 so that in 2003 that ratio would be 1 to 1.37 means with one small shift positive. According to the introduction of the report, the transition from the socialist to the market economy, the poorly formed pension system and the ageing population have brought the Croatian pension system into crisis. It is important to say from the report that on 31 December 2003 there were a million 443 thousand 995 insurance companies in the office. A million 54 thousand 549 pensioners were and 259 thousand 911 is a user extra for children for 490 thousand 884 children. Surely this, colleagues and colleagues, is one worrying piece of information. I will also note that the report shows that the largest number of pensioners who have made their pension according to the general rules in the age group of 65 to 69 are 211 thousand 939. In December 2003, a total of 94 000 869 users made their lowest pension of an average amount of 82 kuna. Out of that number, the lowest pension amounted to 58 thousand 237 users of an old pension of an average amount of 124 kuna. 29 thousand 12 people with disabilities have achieved an average of thousands and 64 kuna. And 7 thousand 620 family pensioners with an average amount of 825 kuna chi 80 lipa. I will also look back at Mrs Antunovic's statement, which said in her replica that she had been committed to a large-scale pension fund before 2000. And I will remind Mrs Antunovic that the large robbery of the pension fund was carried out on 22 February 2001 when a decision was made by the government to grant shares to the Ministry of Reconstruction and Development, meaning Cacic's ministry. We believe and that's here in the report confirmed, and that's an additional report that went out of the pension fund that it was a big robbery that damaged the pension fund in billions of kunas. And finally, while respecting the presentations of most MPs and colleagues, I will vote in favour of this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23858	Thank you. Replica, a respected representative of Zeljka Antunovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23859	So I'm going to replicate this definition of robbery. Robbery is known to a distinguished colleague when someone illegally takes someone, kidnaps it's called robbery. And this happened unfortunately under the auspices of the political government, you know that syntagma sin, the structure, as it relates, right in the pension fund from 95 to 2000. In 2000, not only, but simply during the time when it was robbed, when the greatest immorality and crime in conversion were committed. What you call a robbery, I absolutely can't agree that it's a robbery. It's all legal decisions, decisions adopted by all those who were to adopt. It is about paying through the Ministry of Reconstruction and Development for Reconstruction, the settlement of debts made during the previous period, not those recorded but the invoice of a total of 10 billion found in drawers that were not recorded in any debt, it is about rebuilding and building houses of those same pensioners or some other citizens of the Republic of Croatia, it is about how to manage the crisis inherited by the former Government, the debts inherited not only by the Ministry of Reconstruction and Development but by all other ministries, but by the legal management of the crisis, the legal availability of funds, state funds, the pension fund, the privatisation fund. It's something you unfortunately don't do today or you don't know how to work, and that's why there's a growing indifference in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23860	Replica response, respected representative Bozica Šolić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23861	Here, Mrs. Antunović, you know when someone or you lend someone money, and you didn't pay them back and find them in different ways so you don't pay back those money to whoever you borrowed it from, and a few years it's been found alienated, so it's been robbed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23862	Second replica, Honored Representative Miroslav Korenika.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23863	My colleague was talking about the 2001 robbery, and I hope she'll file criminal charges against the responsible. And I'd like to remind you that in the 1990s it was what we can call a robbery and what court proceedings are being conducted for. Remember the Kutle and all those who traded shares with pension funds where they were giving unskilled or poor shares, they got shares of the highest quality state-owned companies and now all of a sudden you're talking about robbery, so where's your cheek and what's your argument? The only argument you have and you'll give it to us when you file a criminal complaint and when the court will make a final decision that someone really robbed it. This way you just want to hide what you did back in the '90s that was really a robbery in this country.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23864	My colleague, let us not do this, these terms “where is your face” and so on. You're bringing in something you don't need! Reply to the replica of the respected representative Bozica Šolić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23865	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Here, I have to react to this argument from my fellow MPs because he used really words of insult but I'm going to answer them. If you mention the past, Kutle and so on, it is unfortunate that today you have “Lance”. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23866	We're still going to an individual debate on behalf of the Clubs. Dear Representative Dragutin Pukleš. The Croatian Retirement Party Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23867	Thank you, Mr. President. If I took the time, I'd have to say a little bit of something to clear up one question and this was the issue of the HSU coalition, HDZ. Please, that one, and it has been said that this coalition is strange. First of all, it's not about the coalition, we've signed the agreement, and in that agreement, we've determined exactly what we're going to do together. There's a lot we didn't know what came up in the meantime that we'd still have to discuss. But the question is, what was the former coalition, what was done there?- I'm sorry. There's nothing weird about it, we just have one program that knows what we have to do and that's how we're gonna do it. To skip this part, namely, I would go back to this part that concerns the issue of the situation that we have in the report. You see in this report when we look at this report from the point of view, let's say governments, budgets or fiscal policies, then it gives one positive intonation, but if we look at it from the aspect of how the pensioners live then it has a negative connotation. But it is a state that is not affected by the Pension Insurance Office but by something else. In a debate that a colleague from HSP said here yesterday, I think something was very well seen, and that is that, that these data that we have in this report are actually an invitation to an alert that really needs to be seriously discussed at any level and at any level because what happens to pensioners who are now going to retire and those who are going to leave for the next 10 years is unsustainable. So there are some things that have to be corrected in any way. A little bit, about that, I touch reform. In fact, the intensity of the reform here says that pillar I or this generation solidarity will actually be one social aspect, i.e. that in intergenerational solidarity there will be such relations in which there will be no expression of the amount of pensions related to the labour contribution and the length of work. However, this is not simply sustainable in any case. Namely, not everyone, any pension system cannot survive without a basic system, and this is intergenerational solidarity in which the pension will depend on both the work contribution and the length of the working life. Everything else is forced or voluntary insurance or voluntary savings that we never know how it will end. Therefore, what part of the pension, from which we will provide the future, should be very seriously considered in the coming periods. And I would once again what I mentioned is that the question is very serious and that it is about living people who have been brought into one position in this way that they are below, below the minimum of life existence and that they simply have to do something, and it must also be done that there are no big differences in retirement in the current period and in the future 10 years that people are going to retire to. I don't have time anymore. I'm sorry, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23868	Thank you. HSP club, respected representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23869	Dear Mr. President, representatives are proposing reports, colleagues and colleagues. On behalf of the HSP Club, I must say at the end that this report, first of all, gives a real social picture of Croatia at the moment. And that's why I have to express my deep concern again. The fact that at this point in time, for the purpose of paying off pensions, we single out 13 to 14% of gross domestic product says that the situation is really alarming. And he's talking about the need to take action to get out of this situation and crisis. And that's why I have to react again to Mr. Cain's debate yesterday that says we won't do anything if we solve the 340 thousand unemployed issue. We'll do a lot. We will solve 340 thousand families who will have monthly incomes, and yet we will do much because the relationship between the number of insurance companies and the number of pensioners will not be like now 1,37:1 but will be 1.7, and we will do a lot if we manage to collect pension contributions in full and we will do a lot if the Croatian Pension Insurance Office is able to pay the pensions they pay according to the general rules out of the funds paid by contributions. It's already a major breakthrough. And then there is a guarantee that the question of the pensioner's compensation or the return of the pensioner's debt will be resolved. But once again, on behalf of the Club, I ask that it be clarified exactly what happened to the shares that were allocated to the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute means the Fund in such a way that one part of the debt that the state owed to the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute and enables the Croatian Pension Insurance Office to capitalise means that it increases the value and that it can react in these situations. We didn't get that answer. We have a situation that means a million EUR was given to the former Ministry of Reconstruction and Development from the Fund's portfolio and it is an interesting situation that no one has said the answer to why it was done and whether it will come back. Because it's an interesting situation to get out of the funds, to get the Fund's resources into the budget. Well, that's not allowed. We need to split up the situation exactly. The contributions are from the Fund, and the part of the state budget that is being paid primarily concerns pensions according to specific regulations and we need to cut this amount to the state budget paying that part, and this to go from contributions. And then you'll do a lot, not that budget funds have to be paid for general, for pensions that... Therefore, the situation is more than alarming and we expect the responsible behaviour of all here and Mr Vidovic, who boasted yesterday that he is satisfied with the reform that has been achieved. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's just been reformed, Mr. Vidovic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23870	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation. Honorable representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23871	I didn't tell Mr Kovacevic that nothing would be done for the pension system if 300 thousand unemployed were employed. Finally, unemployment is now between 5 and 6 points in Istria. It means that the county is very helpful or contributes to the pension system. I said yesterday that if all the unemployed were hired, we'd get to an average of one pensioner versus 1.8 workers. And that ratio is disastrous, which is what I said about how I said that the demographic problem of the Republic of Croatia at this time is one of the biggest Croatian problems, which is unfortunately insolvent. Even the pension system can to improve, but this other one is... [[Intruder: Thank you.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23872	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect alleged, respected representative Davorko Vidovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23873	Here I am correcting Mr. Kovacevic's alleged payment or shooting at the state budget of the Peace Fund's money. Unfortunately, things are quite the other way around. 10 billion kunas every year,...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23874	A colleague, Vidovic, is not a correction to the incorrect allegations. It's the correction of one, one claim.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23875	Claims.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23876	It's the correction of one, it's the correction of one, one claim that...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23877	Well, it's an incorrect claim. Well, I think it's an incorrect claim. It's an incorrect claim that Mirovinski is paying the fund, the Budget, it's just the other way around. The budget pays pensions of 10 billion kuna per year. That's incorrect.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23878	It's not a correction to an incorrect quote. It's one of the polemics. It's one of the polemics. No warning. [[Intruder: Warning.]] SDP club, a five-minute debate by respected representative Zeljka Antunovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23879	Thank you very much. Here's a brief, final report we've discussed. We read the reports and received information about the steps and changes that occurred in the pension system in the previous period. As you said, as was said here in some way part of these reports are basic, base reports relative to some period, and I'm going to say from the base, sort of 2000. What happened in 2000? The peace was paid after the 20th of the month, and it was never known when it would be and whether it would be paid at all. From month to month, the Peace Fund owed around 700 million to 800 million kuna, paid endlessly large interests that burdened both the fund and the pensioners, as well as the state budget. The total shares of the Peace Fund were reduced to a minimum. Only a few valuable shares were allocated to a special, special fund that was completely out of the control of the pensioners and I know what it was for, what it was for. Contribution funds accumulated and all went to current pensions and on terribly high interest rates. There were no other financial benefits from them. The payment of the contribution was weak, on the contrary, there were strong debts for the contributions of economic, economic operators. What is read from today’s accounts? Orders are paid regularly, exactly a certain day a month. The Peace Fund is no longer in debt with business banks and the Mirovinski Fund is not paying, no longer paying that huge interest. The stock portfolios are not managed unfortunately still well, but better than it was, and it was completely out of control in the Peace Fund itself because these portfolios are not on, that they stay there forever, and in management transferred as a commitment to the Privatisation Fund where people who by nature things should be experts on this. The system of intergenerational solidarity or the first pillar is fully stabilised. The peace is unfortunately still small and insufficient to live in view of all the other movements in the cost of life, the movement of wages and so on. But the system is stabilized. At the same time, a large cost of pension reform, or the cost of the second pillar, was paid. A total of 14 billion kunas that are now operating and are running are the basis for the functioning of financial markets in the Republic of Croatia. Peace insurance companies in the pension II pillar make extremely high and good contributions to their contributions. No more paying no more interest than someone else pays the insurance companies interest. The number of insurance companies has increased to about a million and 400 people. Unfortunately, I'm warning here today, although it's still time to stop some things from happening, the position of those millions and 400 Second Column insurance companies has already been violated. There is already a serious threat of destabilising the first pillar of intergenerational solidarity and returning to this base year to be a state again, and the fund and pensioners and all the political structures that will have problems with the payments of current pensions, however small and minimal. Let's try to be rational and reasonable. Let's try to develop these existing resolutions, and there may be some kind of precipice there is some basis on which this achieved results of the pension reform were created. Let's not forget about the future, let's not forget that pension systems are long-term projects, let's not forget the bad experience we inherited through the only existing intergenerational solidarity system. Let us not forget that the greatest price of the moment is paid by those who are one. 1. In 2002, they passed 50 years and could not enter the second pillar, unfortunately and the pillar is powerless. Intergenerational solidarity and economic development in Croatia are powerless to help significantly increase their pensions.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23880	Thank you. Dear Representative Damir Cain is also having a 5-minute debate on behalf of the Klub IDS.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23881	Your Honor, Mr. President, gentlemen of the Parliament. There is probably no more complex system in any country than retirement. And that is to say, in the gross social product of the Republic of Croatia, the pension system is represented by 13.04% while in the countries of Western Europe it is about 10%. And here's what we're reading is that apparently, according to IMF data, it's now reaching 14%. So in Croatia, this participation is 3.4% above the European average and yet no one in Croatia is satisfied with their pensions. And clearly it can't be. Why? Because in Croatia, we have a million and 54 thousand pensioners, and somewhere around a million and 450 thousand workers. Or that's the ratio of 1 to 1, 37. But that's not exactly the way it is. Why? Because out of these millions and 450 employees, public administration, health care, education, government needs to be rejected. The council and so on. AND those who work in insolvency companies. And then we come to the fact that we actually have 1.1 workers in production activities on one pensioner, and that's unsustainable. If that's what 500 thousand people receive in this country, so-called. guaranteed personal income or salary, and gradually this is expressed in the small sector of craftsmen and so on, the problem is capital. What is more, in this system below, is that out of all the government's contributions, 13.8 billion kuna and that the pension budget to the 24.6 billion kuna must be allocated to nearly 11 billion kuna. Is all this possible to influence? Yeah, just one way to make it clear to a larger number of working places. Just this opportunity to mention pensions from countries as it is called in the ex-Yugoslavija report from Serbia and Montenegro to Slovenia. People who have worked mostly along the border are expressed part of the century in Slovenia, somewhere else in Serbia or Bosnia and Herzegovina are constantly rebelling that with great delay, pensions are coming to them. Those who worked in Slovenia will still be lucky to profit from this, but those who worked in Serbia, Bosnia and Herzegovina will find themselves in Croatia in huge problems. This is about the Constitutional Court's decision and IDS's law on the repayment of debt to pensioners, which we have one brutal way off the agenda. It's a mistake for one who thinks and is also told by the Constitutional Court's decision that the denied pensions will be able to return to shares. It's just not possible. In the end, the fund will turn into a complete sale of the Republic of Croatia. Clearly, it is not possible to return to one, two or three years through a pension bond, but should do so in eight years. Because if Croatia has succeeded in significantly more difficult circumstances through bonds to resuscitate banks, the €25 billion circus has been there, it can also damage the pensioners and it is our legal obligation. The problem again is to get back to the point, in the fact that in 93, pensions were frozen for our pensioners. Privatisation also culminated everything, although in my court, I will replicate to Mr Kovacevic, the fundamental problem is jobs. Because if we were in this country and all of our jobs, we'd come to a ratio of 1 pensioner 1.7 - 1.8 workers, and that ratio is disastrous, which I repeat will only say that the demographic problem of Croatia at this time is one of the greatest. Fortunately, in the last four years, the country has managed to stabilise the pension system, and it must have been one of the great tasks that the former government has managed to accomplish. Finally, it is this stabilisation of the pension system that perhaps the biggest contribution is made by Istria County, which at this time has an unemployment rate of around 6%.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23882	Correction of the incorrect allegations, the respected representative Pero Kovačević.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23883	Mr. Cain said he was replicating me and that he didn't see the difference. It's important that the relationship between the number of insurance companies and the number of pensioners goes forward, that it's not 1.37 to 1, but it's 1.7 to 1. And that 340,000 people were employed. That's a big difference. 340,000 families, Mr. Cain. Now that's the important difference you see. It's a very important difference.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23884	Thank you. I would like to ask HAGENA's respected Dragan Kovacevic for a final review.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23885	Honored President, ladies and gentlemen. Here's a very short one. First of all, I would like to thank you as much as I could see on all sides about the report on pension markets, which is as good as the report because the results are good in it. And the results are that the yield on the property is good and gives the insurance company almost a million and 200 – 300 thousand insurance companies are satisfied. I mean, from that point of view, I'm sure the report should be difficult to argue with. On the other hand, this is really a pension system all this system agreed to disagree with him, they were one big, big necessity to reform him. If we had a system that one pensioner on four employees would never do this to me. So why would they do that? But it would be stupid, rather than simply remain generational solidarity and everything would be the same and probably be good. We'd have a government fund. This is how capitalization is done for a new generation of people, which will be 20 years from now we are not prophets, but we will do everything in economic financial terms as experts to make it go in the right direction and what is going in the right direction at this point. On the other hand, very briefly, about the technical couple of questions, I think there were the most questions on the part of my fellow pensioners who, of course, from the position of old pensioners will probably go to a priority to say and relativize a system that gives a chance to some new generation for maybe better pensions when they come to that part, that they are all good financial instruments, you said, why not life insurance, why, well, that would be very good, just the question of how economic power of citizens to go into all these financial systems. On the other hand, you today have savings from the banking sector that is exceeding EUR 12 billion. So the savings potential is there, but from the aspect of pension savings and pension system, which is why he's good at one way and he's forced people to save, but not to save for consumption, but to save in the long run, to save for his pension, through certain capitalisation. The third thing that should be emphasized here is that the system exists society and the fund and here there was an emphasis on whether the banks are parties etc. entered the funds. They're insurance property, they're not legal. Society only manages the fund. Any insurance company can change funds, that's the market aspect. On the third, the fourth thing that needs to be pointed out about the peace funds is that they must be active around privatisation processes, that almost 1,300,000 Croatian citizens can become a shareholder through funds in public enterprises, if they go through Croatia's insurance, via JANAF, through large companies. They are the owners, not the banks that are only the owners of the fund management company. So the potential is very high. I think we should be really happy all if we continue the capitalisation system as it has been going so far, because the capitalisation he made in the pension funds is 2 to 3 times bigger than someone held savings in the banking sector. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23886	Thank you. Mile Rukavina, Director of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute. Final review, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23887	Thank you. Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. I will try as soon as possible, if possible, to look briefly at the entire course of this exhibition and give certain answers to some questions asked. Dear MPs spoke about the state of the peace insurance system, the causes of the situation, the reform of the overall pension system, the results or the bad side of reform of the pension system and a number of other concrete issues. What I think is that about that part that goes into a political sphere, I don't think I would speak, is not in the jurisdiction of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute. The responsibility of the Institute, i.e. the Director of the Institute, is to implement compulsory pension insurance on the basis of generation solidarity, not in any way, but in a better way, which means in a legitimate manner and with shorter deadlines in the exercise of the rights laid down by law. I must point out that I was appointed to the Executive Director of the Institute in the 7th month, 15th of this year, and the Director of the Institute a week ago, 27th of October, and that I had foreseen in my work that a programme of modernisation of the Croatian Institute should be implemented, in the direction of better quality management of the Institute, redesigning of the business system in order to raise the quality of work, improving the organisation of work and raising the quality of the level of professional service, and I believe that I will also succeed, together with colleagues from professional services. What matters is that it was too fragile, and it concerns implementation there were several issues concerning irregularities in the work of the Institute, the length of the implementation, the procedure in the exercise of rights, the status of witches, the situation of portfolios and a number of other issues. Regarding certain irregularities in the work, I must point out that I was welcomed by the final findings of the State Audit Office on Financial Reports and Business for 2003. In the framework of the powers, I have found that a number of irregularities have been identified, in particular in the procurement process, financial operations and in the work of the Department of Internal Affairs. What I could do at this time I'm going to short-list. I took all the activities to make full public procurement work subject to strict application of the law, and in that sense I also issued the necessary orders. Under 2nd, I have prepared a programme of measures to remove irregularities identified by the 2003 State Audit Office with defined deadlines and executioners in such a way that these irregularities are no longer repeated, and where possible measures have been taken to remove the forms of adverse action. These days, most likely 11 November, a meeting of the Governing Council will be held at which I will also present the programme of measures to remove irregularities and 3rd in the course of the procedure, the above-mentioned proceedings have been initiated against the responsible persons for breach of the labour obligation, and it is precisely when the file is completed and completed for the submission of certain criminal applications and, of course, the proceedings for compensation. Otherwise, the State Audit Office report, I have to review financial reports and business, I must stress that it does not deliver Croatian Peace Insurance Institute to the Croatian Assembly, but the State Audit Office. Further questions raised were related to the length of the procedure, Mr Cain, the specifically respected representative, mentioned the length of the procedure in the exercise of the right of application of international contracts. Normally, I have seen this problem and it has two of its reasons in my opinion, and that is, specificity, the first reason is objective, and that is the specificity of this process, because the procedure is conducted between the two states of the Contracting Party, and the second subjective reason is certainly what the Institute is unfortunately doing today, brings solutions manually. 40% of the operation of waste insurance to implement insurance through the application of international contracts and one of the objectives within the framework of the modernisation of the Institute is certainly both the completion and implementation of the project, the adoption of a solution by automatic means. The further question was about the witch problem. I've spotted the witch problem in two segments. This is the number of experts and the non-compliance with the provisions of the Medical Skills Regulation, and in this respect I have issued service orders and will also be presented to the Management Board with the prepared material and prepared for a certain decision to determine the number of experts required by the field services, as well as the decision to call for tenders for experts and more experts in the Office. Another segment that was mentioned concerned the status of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute’s portfolio of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute’s status, which I will try to be brief because it is quite said. During the conversion, the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute acquired shares without compensation, shares and shares of social capital companies on two basiss, not only one, under Article 5 but also the second basis and it was in Articles 26 and 39. The law on the conversion of social enterprises. The fact is that Article 1 The privatisation law that shares and business shares of HZMO on 21 July become the portfolio of the Republic of Croatia and the HZMO becomes their owner. The same article changes the management of shares and business shares to the Croatian Privatisation Fund under a contract signed by the Croatian Privatisation Fund, concluded with the Institute and concluded the contract on 27 July 2000. Legally, it is only possible to amend and supplement the law to amend this situation or the Constitutional Court can determine, since there have been such issues in the constitutional process, whether a provision of the law is constitutional in relation to the provisions of the Constitution on ownership. Here, I mean that's the shortest I could answer your questions. Thank you for your patience.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-03-0.u23888	Thank you, Director. I'm concluding a debate on these two points. Report on pension markets in the Republic of Croatia in 2003. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, I am voting on the next conclusion. The Report on Pension Markets in the Republic of Croatia is hereby adopted in 2003, together with amendments and additions proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia in a written opinion of 27 August 2004. Please, let's get on with it. To vote. Score, 105 votes for, 1 abstention, nothing against. That conclusion, therefore, was brought to this largely.
