ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u19852	Mr. President, members of Parliament, or Parliament. Dear guests, let me begin by expressing my joy to be here with you today at this important moment for relations between Croatia and the European Union. Last year, when I visited Zagreb in November 2003, the commission was the result of the preparation of the so-called aviary or opinions on Croatian membership request. I always believed that Croatia would be able to take all the necessary efforts to allow the commission to give a positive opinion. And I'm glad to say today that my hopes are satisfied, through the action of the country's side and through the maturity shown by its population. I know it wasn't easy to meet all the requirements in Brussels sometimes it wasn't easy to turn the history page so it could look into a better future. But Croatia does. And she also makes a very clear choice. That choice is Europe. It was very important for that election to be accepted last year by the entire Parliament, the government and the opposition. It is also important that the majority of the population in Croatia share the same choice. Efforts should continue to be made to support this integration process in public change. With such strong engagement as has been shown over the last few months and years, the Copenhagen criteria needed to open negotiations are met. The Commission gave a positive opinion on 20. 4th and in June this year, our council accepted this and decided to start negotiations in early 2005. I can say that there is one clear reason for this progress in Croatia and the region, with the acceptance and application of the stabilisation and accession process we successfully repeat this approach that we have already adopted towards some other countries in Central Eastern Europe. I have no doubt that this clear possibility of membership in the European Union provided for this region has created a major impulse for reforms. Without that offer, the history of this region would be completely different. A Thessaloniki summit at the European Council, the Council of Europe in June 2003 recognised the Western European countries' wishes to join our Union. Some new instruments have been introduced full of wine and European partnerships for each country, which have made it very clear that the priorities are for both the medium-term and the short-term. Especially with regard to e.g. We must not forget that the European Union paid a total of $5 billion between 2000 and 2006 for the Western Balkans. We also opened our market for goods from those countries. Without in some cases, any reciprocal approach to the markets or to the case in Croatia in one asymmetric way. Therefore, the Council's decision in June of this year is a positive signal of encouragement given by Croatia to the entire region. This Stabilisation and Association policy that the EU has created for this region has proved to be something that works. And we can all agree on that there have been major shifts in this region, greater stability, as well as functioning democracies. And although this progress is sometimes slow and not even, there are again examples of certain reforms that the EU has promoted. So we can really say at the very end of the road there are very concrete prospects of membership in the European Union. Chris Peten and I shared that responsibility to prepare avi or opinion for Croatian, a request for membership. And now we're glad in the truth that we can say that we have a positive result. This is important for Croatia and we are truly convinced that Croatia deserves it. If we look at the economic criteria now, we have concluded that Croatia already has a functioning market economy. As regards all the requirements that are part of European legislation, we believe that Croatia can meet almost all requirements for membership within one reasonable period of time, except perhaps some exceptions in the area of the environment. There will be more time for Croatia in view of the complexity of the sector itself and the same high costs needed to make full use of the mouth. As far as political criteria are concerned, there are some concerns about, for example, The situation in the Croatian judiciary. It is not well organized enough, further training is needed, and I need to deal with it as soon as possible. Croatia must also conclude the process of returning refugees that will allow Serb refugees to return home. Close co-operation with the UNHCR and OSCE commission and with the government of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Serbia-Montenegro will help the government find a way to complete the task, so that many years after the war ended, the government, with close contact with the international community, must now find one final solution to the problem. It's been too long on our common agenda. Therefore, an appropriate public awareness campaign, for refugees who wish to return, should inform them of their legal options, which the government has for them as regards the return of property, rebuilding, lost housing rights. These are all issues that are of great importance. Minorities must feel that one change of climate. Croatia, which has gained candidate status, should now show that this continued respect for national minorities is something that is guaranteed, both at central and local level. It really encourages Croatia to accept obligations in terms of international agreements. It is equally important that this is fully applied. So this progress in normalising interethnic relations and the long-term stability of the Republic of Croatia and the entire Balkan region depends on it. Regional co-operation is also very important especially when we talk about bilateral relations with neighbours, it is important for Croatia and it also allows for a simpler dialogue in the atmosphere that helps solve any problems that exist. At the time of the preparation of opinions or avis, the most difficult topic was the issue of co-operation with the international canning court for the former Yugoslavia. The European Union has fully taken into account the case of eight new indictees, and we must recognise that this has been done professionally and quickly. Everyone turned themselves in to The Hague and it was about a week after the charges were filed, but there remains a case of a former general who is still on the run and here the chief prosecutor said in April that Croatia can do everything it can to locate him and arrest him. It concluded that Croatia fully co-operated with the tribunal. Our demands were that there should be full cooperation and that we could rely on The Hague court or the tribunal for our assessment. Since these requirements are met, the path to a positive avis or opinion is open. So now it is of great importance that Croatia maintains this level of co-operation so that the court remains satisfied. Once that criterion was met, any step backwards would have very serious consequences for the process. On Monday, I listened very carefully to Carla del Ponte and her statement to our council, where she invited Croatia to improve its co-operation with the court and I am sure that the country, this country, will respond positively to that message. A good report by the Court in November before the Security Council of the European Union will certainly open the door for the start of negotiations next year. That's what we all want to see. When we also talk about the Commission's report and status in view of 6.10, it is clear that progress in the negotiations will be fully dependent on the sustainability of political reforms and the fulfilment of Croatia, given its commitments to regional co-operation with other countries and former Yugoslavia with other international commitments such as: Cooperation with the international criminal court. There's a lot more to be done. In this accession process Croatia should concentrate on these actions and should not and cannot waste time. This accession to the European Union should be one common goal, not only for the country's leadership, but for the entire Croatian Parliament and the population. Negotiations on the accession of the European Union will also be difficult, an additional set of stakeholders will need to be informed in Parliament on time and consulted on the duration of the negotiations themselves. You must ensure that this dialogue is transparent and that it is as close to people as possible. Croatia will also have to ensure certain immunity against one of the greatest enemies of humanity, it is an excessive nationalism that only leads to exclusion, exclusion, xenophobia, great depths of itself, and arrogant illusions of superiority. Croatia will now join Europe living in its unity, but again on its intellect and cultural diversity. This is one of the specific characteristics of the European Union which enriches us all and enables peace and stability. Since the Council approved our avis and recommendation, the Commission adopted last week, on 6 October, a pre-accession strategy for Croatia and our proposal for a framework for negotiations based on what we learned from previous enlargement negotiations. Let me briefly say what the content of this document is. So it is a pre-accession strategy for Croatia. Immediately after the formal opening of negotiations by the Intergovernmental Conference in 2005, we will have to start the process of reviewing Croatian legislation in order to determine the degree of its compliance with AKI. This will help us to focus on the main issues of accession negotiations obviously. I cannot tell you how long the negotiations will last, as in previous cases, it will depend on the progress the country will make, but I can promise you that there will be no delay tactics on our part. I can guarantee you that the European Union will continue to assist Croatia during the negotiations. We have just proposed to the Council that pre-accession instruments be opened to Croatia. These are the instruments we used for the new Member States, both for Romania, and for Bulgaria, for Far. We proposed to allocate EUR 105 million in 2005 and EUR 140 million in 2006. It's an important increase in our help. There is an ISPA instrument that is designed to finance environmental and transport priorities identified in the European Partnership. Stopeld addresses the problems of structural adjustment in the agricultural sector, in rural areas and the implementation of AKIs or of Community acquis concerning the common agricultural policy of related legislation. I must warn you, from that committee that it is a very complex and difficult system, but if you can manage it, it will be very helpful. But I have to say, it's a very hard job. This instrument will finance the priorities in the field of agriculture and rural development identified in the European Partnership. The FAR will replace the existence of a community programme now called CARS and will continue to finance other priorities identified in the European partnership, particularly with the construction of institutions, with justice, internal affairs, economic and regional development. It should be taken into account that since 2007 all these instruments will be united under a single pre-accession instrument called IPA, and then it will be much easier. I personally saw how, when they were preparing for membership in the European Union, the country's previous candidates were actually in the ongoing process of transformation, and there, as a result of stable democracy. Disputes between neighbours, border debates and disputes, problems with minorities have been resolved. There has been a transformation into a functioning market economy, economic reforms have led to competitive structures, and in time, there has been a transformation of patterns in trade. At the wider economic front, the approach gave these countries unlimited access to the world's largest common market, something Croatia has achieved in some ways already. According to my experience with the enlargement negotiations, I can say that the political economic criteria were not the biggest problem in the enlargement process, but that was, the biggest problem was the development of administrative capacity to meet new obligations. When a new member joins the European Union, he must give a guarantee that he can truly implement and implement the whole set, full legislation in the community and all of it. And that's a priority I strongly recommend that you deal with them. So, I repeat, it is important for Croatia to make constant progress on the political and economic shortcomings highlighted in Avis and in the partnership. Croatia will be the next country with which the European Union will start accession negotiations and, by the way, Croatia is the last country I can visit as Commissioner in charge of enlargement. This shows that the process of European integration continues. The importance of accession negotiations with Croatia goes much further than Croatia itself. It's actually a signal at pan-European level. Ladies and gentlemen, it's hard to tell if it's the last Croatian country, which came late or if it's the country that came as a predecessor. The first main, first main round of enlargement after revolutionary changes in Europe, after 1979, is now almost complete. 10 countries, 8 from Central and Eastern Europe joined on 1 May 2004. Romania and Bulgaria will follow them in 2007. Unfortunately, Croatia missed the first round. In my opinion, it was important to make sure that this great effort that required so much of the people in Europe, still looking, did not lead to fatigue by expanding. There was a great risk that the public in the Member States would now say, that's enough for now, that's enough. Let's wait a minute. But we couldn't accept it because our big unification project hasn't been completed yet. And as I always said, it cannot be finished without Croatia. The European Union needs Croatia as well as Croatia needs the European Union. After the collapse of that round of countries dominated by the Soviet Union, after the collapse of Yugoslavia, Europe faced the task of finding a new stable political structure for the Baltic Sea to the Adriatic Sea, from the Atlantic Ocean to the Black Sea. We had to stabilise the young democracies that were emerging, both politically and economically. We have chosen the hardest, but the path that has promised the most, and that means including all these countries and peoples in the already highly developed system of European integration. This meant not only the former, members of the former Warsaw Pact and Komekon, but also the countries of the former Yugoslavia and Albania. Here, and as a result of that Slovenia, the neighbour of Croatia was one in the first wave. In the case of other countries, the Stability Pact in 1999 opened a visible door for membership and others. Unfortunately, we cannot say that now the whole region is already stable, on the contrary, we are still facing a crisis situation, full of risk and danger. Croatia has now managed to tear itself apart through a energetic reform process. She has met the preconditions for starting accession negotiations. There was a great combined effort in which they contributed, the people of Croatia contributed. This should be an encouragement to other countries in the region. The European Union is serious. We do not make empty promises and these efforts will be rewarded. If we can turn disintegration of Yugoslavia into European integration then we will achieve our goal. After that, Europe will be more unique than ever, it will be safe, it will be stronger and all the nations will have better prospects for the future. So I would now like to appeal, now, here, to the governments and peoples of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Serbia-Montenegro, Macedonia and Albania to read the signs from Croatia correctly and to learn from these signs. We believe that democracy, rule of law, respect for human rights and protection of minorities should also take place in this region, that this should be fully achieved. We believe that economic reform can show the way out of misery for many people and above all, we believe that people in this region should be able to live together as good neighbourly communities without hatred and open to reconciliation. European integration is the happiest event in European history. She helped us overcome the so-called. inherited hostilities and conflicts that lasted centuries. Germany and France are a great example. Reconciliation is possible, peace is possible, but the idea of political integration in Europe itself is not enough. It seeks a strong political will, a strong commitment not to allow war and violence between peoples in Europe to happen again. By running for membership, Croatia also took the political mission on itself. He can lead on that path and show his neighbors the path to a better future. It can radiate hope and trust in itself. Your country can and must be a stability factor and a stability producer in this part of Europe. As representatives of the Parliament, in the Croatian Parliament, I encourage you never to forget that Europe expects much from you. We want to help you to take the place in the future where you have the right as a nation in the centre of Europe. But we expect you to do something in return. Croatia has a new task. To be an example, to establish good neighbourly relations in the European spirit and in your Croatian model. At the end of my term as Commissioner in charge of enlargement, let me finish in a way that I wish Croatia the best in the future. Everyone agrees that the future of this country is in Europe. I hope that Croatia will be able to continue its huge progress in economic and political reforms. This is in the interest of the European Union, to make it happen smooth and fast. It is in the interest of all Croatian citizens as well. I hope that I will be able to return to your beautiful country during my next term as Vice-President of the Commission and Commissioner for Industry, for entrepreneurship to actually record your progress and permanent commitment to the sharing of European values. Thank you very much. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u19853	I thank the High Commissioner of the European Commission, and we would particularly like to express our gratitude that, under his personal leadership, the European Commission has adopted a pre-accession strategy for Croatia and that Mr Verheugen has made a significant contribution in this pre-accession strategy by recognising and believing that others recognize the efforts that Croatia has made to gain candidate status and to speed up its path towards the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22639	We move to the fourth item of the agenda, - Proposal for a Law amending the Law on minimum protection measures in the business of cash and value – Proposer of the Club of Representatives of HSP, first reading, P.Z. No. 128. Proposer of the Law is the Club of Representatives of the HSS. You received the proposal by mail. In the case of the adoption of this Act, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the Law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security. You received the reports at the session. The Government of the Republic of Croatia delivered an opinion. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. On behalf of the Club of HSP Representatives, Mr. Representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22640	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. The law on valuables, on minimum protection measures in cash-and-value operations that were passed last year and published in the "National Journal", number 173, bookshops are unfounded and without valid resistance classified in monetary institutions, alongside banks, housing savings, savings and credit unions, exchange offices, Croatian lottery, FINA, Croatian Post Office and Croatian National Bank. According to Article 3(1) of the Law in question, bookmakers are included in the same category, I repeat, together with banks, savings banks, FINA and all other major monetary institutions, but they carry out monetary transactions far smaller, betting banks, than these monetary companies. Croatia's bookies' association is unclear, which was a basic criterion, deciding to include bookies in the same group with the above-mentioned institutions. Is it based on the very fact that inside the bookies it is also a business with cash or is taken into account the level of traffic achieved or something else. In fact, no explanation has been given which is why the bookies were included in the same group. If the decisive criterion was to operate cash, then it was to be included in the same group, e.g., shops, kiosks, large trade chains, caterers, gas stations, hair salons and the like. If the decision-making criterion was achieved again, the question is raised why the above mentioned entities which achieve the same or far greater average daily turnover, because at the level of the average daily turnover of 4 000 384 kuna, the betting facilities would certainly not have been included in this group. And it seems to us, the third criterion, which is nowhere to be found, is that it is essentially a monopoly of Croatia's lottery because Croatia's lottery will in this way come in a privileged position compared to Croatian bookies. Therefore, it is undeniable to include a bookie in a group of banks and other large money institutions that will result in huge additional betting costs and lead to counterproductive effects that will result in the closure of private bookies. If you could just get a picture, I'll tell you what and how the bookies are doing. For the full consideration of this issue should be given to the following facts. The betting tax, which means, for 2003, the bookies have been paid into the state budget, amounting to $11 million in kuna 28 thousand 50 kuna. Profit tax was paid for last year amounting to 11 million 44 thousand 578 kuna. In 2003, a total of 37 million 535, over 37 million and 535 thousand were paid. Taxes and taxes for 2000 have been paid to more than 7 million kuna. On December 31st, 2003, 2,000 661 workers were employed. The total number of payments on December 31st last year amounted to a thousand 134 seats. In March this year, the number of employees in the bookies was 2 thousand 989, which was an increase of 328 workers. The number of open offices with 31st March this year was a thousand 196. For all bookies, they settle their obligations to the state neatly. And because of that, the bookies have also launched an assessment of the constitutionality of these provisions that the government itself has said in this part. Therefore, it is the provisions which are constitutionally unfounded and which will in some ways make it impossible for the bookies to work. Unfortunately, it will allow new unemployed on the employment market again, and on the third hand will be given a monopoly on Croatia's lottery. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22641	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Yeah. Mr. Representative Ivan Jarnjak, Chairman of the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22642	Your Honor, Mr. President. The Committee on Internal Policy and National Security at the 21st session held on 20 October 2004 discussed the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on minimum protection measures on cash and value management, P.Z. 128th, which was submitted to the president of this House by the HSP Representatives' Club, which has been active since 28 June 2004. The applicant considers that there are no justified nor clear criteria under which, in accordance with the already applicable Law of the bookkeeping company, they are included in the common category as well as banks, savings banks, FINAs, CNBs and other institutions which carry out monetary transactions but which are significantly higher than bookmakers. The members of the Committee had the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which states that the intensity of the applicable law was to provide physical protection to bookmakers and other present persons in view of the frequent attacks on them. The opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia also states that a constitutionality assessment procedure has been initiated before the Constitutional Court, whose amendment is proposed and that a relevant decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia should be pending. The reasons for not accepting the proposed law was also pointed out by a representative of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The Committee supported the position of representatives of the Government of the Republic of Croatia as well as the delivered opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament the following conclusion: The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on minimum protection measures in the business of cash and values for the reasons set out in this report is not adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22643	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. The first gentleman is on behalf of the Club LIBRE Mr. Zeljko Pavlic please be my guest.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22644	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, the esteemed promoters, the esteemed ladies and gentlemen. Here, let me briefly refer on behalf of the Club of Libre to the adoption of this bill. At first, I can say that Club LIBRE will not support this Law because we do not primarily support the intensity of this Law, which goes towards reducing the number of people who would be left unnecessarily protected and, in our opinion, they need it in their daily work. On the contrary, in our view, it would be necessary to expand the circle of employees who should enjoy minimal security protection. What are our arguments about that? Just to remind you that the existing Law was passed in 2003 when we were already witnessing that year-to-year increases in the number of different robberies, especially those of tragic consequences. I can remind myself here of us in Međimurje unrecorded cases, for example, that such raids in Prelog are also at the bank robbery in Sunday that people have lost their lives and this was about employees in the exchange shop in Prelog and also a police officer who was looking for a bank robber in Nedelisce. All of this was said at that time that the obligations of such institutions must be regulated legally so that they must be guaranteed at least minimum security for their employees. The 2003 law provides for certain institutions, including bookies. So let's argue that the bookies without such protection are more the ones that the proposer himself said that nearly 3,000 employees were employed in these bookshops this year, as far as I can see, it's precisely about young women who can't defend themselves at such times, so that the minimum protection funds are absolutely necessary. Here the promoter is talking about that perhaps you should consider extending the obligation of minimum security protection to shops, kiosks, large trade chains, caterers, gas stations, hairdressers, etc. Our view is that this should be done, on the contrary, not to reduce the number of those who enjoy that protection but should be extended. Unfortunately, we also have a case from Međimurje last week when she was murdered in a cruel way by a saleswoman at the Nedelisce store, so she was killed by one suspect so far, a drug addict, and because of 3,000 kunas, he committed a brutal murder. So it's not about assets anymore, it's about cases where robbers don't ask what means it's about 3 grand, and even less, they'll be ready for the worst. What we would also like to warn about and what is our argument against the adoption of this law is the increase of criminal acts against property, and specifically about theft and robbery. The robbery was 40% higher compared to 1999, in 2003 over 1100 and in 99, there were 622. So, we see that the pressure on that side, and in fact, it would be irresponsible for employees who are now working in bookshops in Croatia to leave without that minimum security protection. And we at Club LIBRE will try to prepare a legal project as soon as possible in which we will propose the same minimum safety standards and for other such sensitive institutions, shops, kiosks of large trade chains as arranged in some other countries. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22645	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP Club, dear representative Marija Lugaric, please welcome.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22646	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. The intention of adopting this Act on minimum protection measures in the business of cash and values that we brought in October 2003 was to reduce the risks and increase the protection of persons performing cash and value transactions. Motivation of why we went to pass this Law was that there has been a trend of robbery in Croatia for a long time, primarily monetary institutions, banks, savings banks, exchange offices, bookshops and the like. In particular, in the SDP, we are concerned about the fact that this trend continues and that during the raids there are frequent victims with the most serious consequences. This is especially present in major cities, in Zagreb almost every neighborhood each of us witnessed or knows someone who witnessed a robbery primarily in the bookies. This law sought to make the owners of monetary institutions responsible in the sense that they would ensure minimum safety conditions from the relevant technical protection systems to the physical protection and security system. And that's when the bookies and some others objected that it requires extra costs, but we in the SDP think that the owner should see his own interest in it because if it is necessary to choose between the cost of physical business and the cost of losing human life, I don't think there's any choice as far as we're concerned in the SDP. Because it's also the target of bandits that are the most common areas that are technically or physically unprotected. The SDP representative club has proposed this law, which should be said, has not been brought to life until the end in practice, that it be changed in that section to exempt the bookies as monetary institutions. It is true that the promoter states that bookmakers do not operate with the same amount of money as the bank, or as FINA’s offices, but it is also true that bookmakers are often the target of robbers, we read about it almost daily in black chronicles and during the first 6 months of 2004 there were 200 robberies committed in bookshops. And in this sense, they are not correct to say that banks, FINA offices, the Croatian National Bank, residential savings banks and these bookshops and these bookshops must have the same conditions themselves, that the existing Law categorises these and monetary institutions, and that the betting institutions prescribes the condition that they should provide a counter-invention system with a centralised tip-off and alarm control system, or a counter-threat system with a centralised tip-off and alarm control, and if not, then a 24-hour video surveillance with the ability to store video records. Therefore, it is not true that they must meet exactly the same conditions as the bank. Furthermore, this proposal for a law in one technical and nomotechnical sense of the HSP Club is bad he predicts that the word bookies are deleted from Article 3 but does not delete the bookies of Article 5 of the existing law, where they are just categorized and different from banks and other monetary institutions. Because of all this, and especially because in this bookies law, they are excluded as institutions that must have minimum safety conditions that we consider necessary, in order to ensure the safety of people who work in the bookies of our citizens who visit bookshops, we from the SDP Club will not be able to support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22647	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS Club, PGS Mr. Representative Antun Kapraljevic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22648	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. We at the HNS and PGS Club are not going to support the adoption of this law in any case, because in this situation when bookies are zero as mushrooms after rain, when there are almost as many bakers and there are an awful lot of employees who need to do a job with cash, and now in that situation, we think it's completely counterproductive and we see that there's an increased number of robberies and here's a colleague who said that 200 robberies were only in bookshops this year, in these bookshops. And we think that because there's an increase in the number of robberies, robbery is no longer what it used to be like, it's a large amount of money being estranged, but it's also the minimum of money being robbed or trying to alienate it has fallen to very low amounts, so it's a few thousand kunas. And all those bookies and they're doing business with a minimum of that kind of money, because we can see it from this argument. We believe that to end these minimum protections in order to be inappropriate at this point, we should insist that, in a circle of those to be protected by minimum protection measures, others, as a colleague has listed, are kiosks, shops and trade chains. And not to spread too much of the story, the HNS and PGS club is not going to support this law anyway.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22649	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HSS Club, Mr. Representative Luka Roic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22650	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. And we at the HSS Club can't support this bill either. Namely, the bookies as a place where they also deal with securities, where they deal with a certain amount of money, so no matter how risky it was when it comes to any robbery and all that has been in such institutions lately. We in the HSS think that, like all of us, these minimum protection measures should be extended to many others. But here it's certainly much simpler. Because the wells are about the possibility that part of the cost should be passed on to the final user without harm to the citizens of Croatia in the broadest sense of the word. Namely, it is optional actually, the game is what allows everyone to be able to deal with it, if he will, of course he can single out some kuna more, i.e. the owner can protect his employees in such a way as to put it into the price, and not violate the standard of citizens. When it comes to all these other shops and what we're talking about, there's a different and more sensitive question, there needs to be a far greater commitment to such measures. But the bookies must certainly protect, or officials, because in this case we protect with this law only a few owners who make good money and good money so that they can provide minimum protection measures for their employees. And so I think that at the very least it is necessary to wait for the Constitutional Court's decision, but aside from that, I think we need to give a signal to the general public, and especially to our children, and we, who thank God children, know how many times our children are looking for happiness where they shouldn't be looking, and so I don't think we should encourage that, through a lower price, all of our younger age to be used in such a way of profit. Happiness materially certainly does not have to be encouraged to look in places in bookies. Of course, bookies have their own legitimacy, let them work, but let them meet minimum protection measures, because all those robberies and all the reasons they talked about are enough reason to apply these measures to such institutions. That is why we at HSS will certainly support the existing form of law, and we will be against the proposed amendments to the law proposed by the HSP Club. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22651	Thank you very much. We still have one representative of the registered Mr. Nenad Stazic. He's gone. He's losing his right to debate. and the Proposer, sir, on behalf of the Proposer Mr. Pero Kovacevic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22652	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Look, I'm sorry that the clubs that were in power are now coming up harder when they passed this law. That's exactly what you're saying right now, and the SDP Club and the HNS and HSS Club, and you're the one that's coming out. We're not against bookies having minimal protection like the others. But we say, how could that happen? What criteria were real? The criterion was the monopoly giving to Croatia the lottery. And if the criterion was what you're saying right now, then you'd be putting gas stations on it, putting in big trade chains. Why didn't you put the big shopping chains in there? Answer that. So we're looking for equal behavior for everyone, that's the point, and don't twist the thesis. Don't defend anything that can't be defended. And please nicely, especially colleague Kapraljević said 500 that this year there was a betting robbery, there were 200 what Mrs Lugaric said. But, Mr. Snotty, keep your mouth shut when I speak a little bit, and you'll say it later. Look, don't think that putting in wells or other security guards is going to solve the problem of robbery in the country. So what are we talking about? Which is due to an increase in the number of criminal acts of robbery, the social situation in which people live, a standard that is neither poor nor poor work, means the police, the poor work of the judicial justice system. We won't solve the problem if we introduce, then enter the streets, the crime scene is the streets, there's the most. Are we going to introduce minimum protection measures in that way? We won't, so this problem this way solves the problem of reducing robbery. It can only be done in a way that everything in the state works properly, that the police are doing their part of the job, the judicial authority is doing its part of the job, and I'm saying you can't defend this part that you, you wanted to please the Croatian lottery, and if you wanted to do what you're talking about right now, then you'd put all this in the same group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22653	Thank you. We have one correction to the incorrect quote Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22654	So I'd just like to correct my colleague Kovacevic who didn't obviously listen when his colleague spoke, he said it was 200, he quoted his colleague, Lugaric, who said it was 200 and there were 200. You need to listen more carefully, you don't need to talk when someone's talking. I listened very carefully.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22655	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. It'll be voted later. I'm informing the MPs that exactly at 3:00 p.m., so just a few minutes ago, they're going to be speaking to Mr. Gunter Verheugen exactly at 3:00 p.m., so please finish what you've got and let's be exact. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22656	Next point. Proposal for a law amending the laws on minimum protection measures in business with cash and values. First reading. P.Z. No. 128 discussions are closed. In accordance with the proposals of the working bodies, I am voting on the next conclusion. The draft law amending the laws on minimum protection measures in cash and value operations, proposed by the HSP Representatives' Club, is not adopted for the reasons set out in the opinion of the Government and in the reports of the working bodies. Please engage. The vote. Score. I find that with 95 votes for, 6 abstentions and 8 against the proposed conclusion. We're moving on with the session. and we move to the point - discussion on a memorandum on economic and financial policy and a new stand by arrangement of the Republic of Croatia with the IMF This debate is being held at the initiative of SDP and HSP representatives clubs. I'm asking Finance Minister Ivan Shuker to file an opening report. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22658	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. So today is the agenda of the Memorandum of Economic and Financial Policy. To talk about this memo, not to look back at the environment and the moment this government decided to close, actually start negotiations on a new stand by arrangement with an international monetary fund, I think they would skip the very important facts, because many of the specifics that have been signed in this stand by the arrangement and the consequences of the previous stand by the arrangements have been made. Certain commitments made by the former government simply could not be deleted in the future, but they could simply be tempered and you will see by comparing certain provisions signed by the former government and which stand by the arrangement that they have been greatly tempered. But what's most important to highlight are two things. One is that stand by arrangement with the International Monetary Fund was marked by a deficit of 6.3% of gross domestic product compared to the agreed deficit of 4.6%, and because of the inability to end the previous stand by arrangement. There's something I'd like to say. If someone were to say that this government provoked this or that, surely that the mission of the International Monetary Fund had been implemented all the criteria of the previous stand by the arrangement would have previously stood by the arrangement ended. Regardless of what the Government of the Republic of Croatia would say. So if according to the indicators they had received that the criteria from the previous stand by the arrangement were satisfied, they would have concluded that stand by arrangement. However, unfortunately, and this will be later on, due to a series of practically none of the criteria are met, stand by an arrangement that was subpieted on February 12th, February 13, 2003 with additions that were signed on February 13, 2003. Seven. Unfortunately, in 2003, many of these criteria were not implemented. And now especially about this 6.3% deficit, because we were practically talking about it for the first seven months. I would remind you only of Appendix Three, an agreement with the International Monetary Fund adopted by the former government, but did not discuss it in the Assembly, where the additional 3rd in point 3 explains that the overall fiscal report should be on a modified accounting basis rather than on a cash basis. And that clearly says there was a 6.3% deficit. It's also in that add-on stand by arrangement signed 12. 3. In 2003, in Annex 1 to point 12, capital expenditure was reduced by the assumption that the delay in the construction of the highway due to the poor weather conditions in early 2003 would probably not fully compensate for the period until the end of the year, as certain capacity-related restrictions would cross over the achievement of expenditure targeted by the original programme. So capital expenditure is reduced from 12 billion 790 to 12 billion kuna. It is very interesting that Minister Cacic also sat in the government, as chairman of the Croatian Highways Supervisory Board, suggested that the construction plan be amended, the change of revenue and expenditure plans, where the income and expenditure plan increased by a billion and 600 million kuna. If the Government sent a document in 7 months to reduce road construction capital expenditure by 700 million, then what changed the income and expenditure plan after 3 months? That's what I'm saying for reasons to explain how there was a 6.3% deficit. Before the end of 2003, a letter from the International Monetary Fund was sent to me as a new minister of finance, which clearly stresses that the government is expected to successfully end the stand by arrangement, as before the European Commission before the creation of the AVI, in fact, it faces the European Commission when drawing up AVI instructions in Croatia as a possible candidate for entry into the European Union. And that the international perception of Croatia will be positive in this case. I note that the previous government, or former Prime Minister Racan and Vice-President Linic, promised last mission to the International Monetary Fund, which was visiting in December last year that all criteria would be met. Unfortunately, however, that was not the case. Of course we all understand that 30. 12. In 2003, this government was unable to successfully end the stand by arrangement, as the executive criteria should have been implemented as 31. 12. In 2003, therefore, only a few days after the takeover of power by the new government, which was not possible because the situation found showed that the criteria could not be met and that the chaos of public finances was left behind. So, the previous government once again repeats and underlines, irresponsibly promised that the criteria would be met successfully and that everything would be fine at the time when it knew that the deficit situation was far from the above and that there was no mandate to complete the stand by the arrangement. So these are facts that can't be escaped for the simple reason that a lot of unpaid bills that have been hidden from the last year have come this year to collect and as such have to be recorded. In addition, some structural problems have not been addressed for a long time, and the government has begun its mandate with difficulties burdened by the past. These are, these are burdens reflected in two characteristics of our economy. First, the public sector is large, inefficient, the share of public consumption in gross domestic product is higher than in other countries at a similar level of development. State agencies and businesses are not subject to strict financial discipline, state support in different forms is greater than those in other Central European and Eastern European countries, which exceeds the EU's proposal. And last year's fiscal deficit was very high. Secondly, the extremely foreign debt of the public and private sector has reached a very high level, putting Croatia at high risk. I would now show you only two diagrams to see clearly the foreign debt situation in 2000 and 2004. So he grew from about $9.5 billion to $24 billion. The share of foreign debt in gross domestic product, see from 45% in 1998, 54% in 1999 to 75% in 2003. And public debt in kunas from 45 billion to 98 billion not counting debt. Therefore, the accession of the resolution and the cause of the mitigation of these burdens is crucial for the health of the economy and for Croatia's recent and successful entry into the European Union. With the support of the International Monetary Fund, the Government and the Croatian National Bank co-operated with the support of the International Monetary Fund in developing a programme of economic policy that has two main objectives, reintroducing order to public finances in Croatia in the short term, limiting vulnerability caused by a very high deficit in the current balance of payments account, burdened with foreign debt and medium-term modernisation and reducing the role of the state, improving the activity of the private sector and preparing Croatia to be competitive in the European Union. The long-term competitiveness and growth of the economy, in particular the accession of the European Union, requires a stable macro-economic environment and a fiscal deficit. In this memo, the policies that will help us to believe in achieving these objectives are put forward and it is an integral part of the wider economic and social programme of the Government. Although it focuses on the immediate future, it also includes long-term policies that will need to be implemented systematically in the coming years. The direct objective of macro-economic policies for the period 2004 to 2005 is to reduce Croatia's extreme vulnerability. Croatia has a small open economy operating in an insecure international environment, a large foreign debt of the public and private sector, in the last decade resulted in a very high share of foreign debt in the gross domestic product 77% of gross domestic product at the end of May 2004 calculation in euro. Although foreign borrowing is likely to continue to monitor investment in the economy, Croatia is vulnerable to extreme shocks and market mood changes due to the size of the current foreign debt balance account. For example, tourism revenues can be significantly oscillated because of international events and foreign debt from domestic banks and businesses can be very variable. Our direct goal is therefore to reduce the imbalance in the current balance of payments account and significantly reduce the base on foreign borrowing. The current balance sheet account imbalance can only be resolved by permanently reducing the difference between domestic savings and investments. As it focuses on the stability of the exchange rate, monetary policy can only play a secondary role and the reduction of the difference between savings and investment depends mostly on fiscal policy. A significant fiscal adjustment is needed to compensate for the overrun from last year when due to the excessive spending of the previous government in the last quarter of the general government budget was increased to 6.3% of gross domestic product, although I must say that in the first stand by an arrangement signed on 13 February, a deficit of 5% was agreed in order to add the government, the former government itself, insisted on reducing the deficit to 4.5% and I say by the method agreed by the former government deficit at the end of the year at 6.3%, for the reasons why hidden subsidies to Croatian railways were included, whose target budget was therefore greatly exceeded for 2003 and the destabilised previous stand by arrangement with the International Monetary Fund. At the same time, we intend to continue with the most important infrastructure projects and find the opportunity to cover the costs of the process of harmonisation with the European Union from the budget. This year's first task was to resolve the problem of the lack of transparent accounting and accumulated fiscal obligations inherited from 2003. First, the deficit shown in 2002 and 2003 was artificially built because the former government forced Croatian railway losers to partially finance their spending on short-term loans with state guarantees that were to be taken over and serviced from the 2004 budget. Also in 2002, 2004 not managed through the budget but as a cost of the budget was to be recorded in future times when loans would return even though, according to all the positive legal rules, these costs were to be recorded in the expenditure side of the budget at the time when the cost was incurred. Secondly, expenditure in 2004 is burdened by a certain number of one-time obligations inherited from previous years including outstanding hospital obligations, a lack of salaries and contracts for the restoration of houses and apartments amounting to around 800 million kuna and the impact of significant increases in salaries granted by the former Government to civil servants a month before November. Also, about 2 billion kunas of court disputes are estimated somewhere, although it should be said that in a stand by arrangement signed on 19 March 2001 it is said that public services and civil servants and tenants should be announced that they will not be paid a refund for their vacation, Christmas and children's gifts. It stands in a 2001 stand-by arrangement and today this government is to be paid more than 2 billion kuna due to these court disputes. Given this situation, the most important objective of fiscal policy in 2004 is to restore transparency and order in public finances, start the process of medium-term consolidation, we intend to achieve a deficit of the general government budget of 9.3 billion kuna or 4.5% of gross domestic product, which means a adjustment of 1.8% of gross domestic product compared to 2003. Budget financing will gradually turn to domestic sources. This would reduce the state's exposure to exchange rate differences, encourage the development of the domestic capital market and probably absorb the surplus liquidity in the private sector. We intend to raise at least 2 billion kunas of domestic funding this year about 1/3 of the need to borrow the general government and increase that share in the coming years. In particular, we'll cancel the release of new... bonds planned for 2004. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The privatisation process mentioned in the structural reforms was inherited from previous arrangements, i.e. commitments that the previous government failed to fulfil, and its ineffectiveness has become a new stand by arrangement. And here I would like to quote a stand-by arrangement from the seventh month of 2003 that talks about privatisation, then you will see and later I will read the part relating to stand by arrangement this year and you will see that certain things could not be skipped. So, I quote, as far as privatisation is concerned, we expect by 15 July 2003 to make a final decision on the sale of 25% plus one of the INA shares to an foreign strategic investor. The sale of 7% of HT almost fully privatised to its employees was postponed for the post-election period. The 25% stake in Croatia's insurance will be offered to the Catholic church and other investors to settle claims related to the return of previously nationalised assets. On 10 June 2003, the IFC sent a letter giving it a mandate to perform a new... 19% share in the core capital of the Croatian Post Bank. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It stands in a stand by arrangement supplement from the seventh month of 2003. We expect to sign an agreement with the IFC on the entry of shares by the end of September 2003. Together, we will prepare a privatisation plan of more than 50% of the bank within 24 months of signing an agreement on the admission of shares. The privatisation plan for Croatia's bank currently managed by DAB will be prepared by 31 December 2003. Finally, we will soon contact the IFC to consider the possibility currently managed by Dab we will prepare by 31 December 2003. Finally, we will soon address the IFC in order to consider the possible sale of bad claims that are in the Daba Porfelain. So it was written in an additional stand-by arrangement in 2003 and in a stand-by arrangement that the IMF board accepted in 4.8 this year is standing next. We intend to speed up the privatisation process again, and this is how it is said. In particular, the state will sell at least 15% of its shares by the end of 2005. You know that according to the privatisation law Ina 15% was to be privatised by 5 months 2004, so this government proposed this end of 2005 to develop a privatisation plan for Croatia by the end of June 2005. So building a plan in the previous arrangement is a gender sale and the exact way it will be sold. At the end of the auction will be withdrawn from Croatia by the end of 200.5 years, and will discuss the options for privatisation or for finding a strategic partner for Croatia post office bank. And now, given that we've given each other facts, so we can evaluate who's on privatisation, as well as how we talked. So this is not about the privatisation date, the moment when privatisation is to be carried out is not about who the Croatian postal bank will be privatised to, it is also not said that despite this, the Government does not believe that the trelbal should own a business bank and therefore decided to privatise it in phases, it has been in the original agreement since February 2003. It's in the agreements, the former government signed it. Therefore, it cannot be said that this stand by arrangement could have been excluded from certain provisions. It's this standby-arranged and how it's tempered, compared to how it's been. The second thing was whether this government was supposed to join the negotiations with the IMF whether it should have made a stand by arrangement. So, at times when a historic moment came for the Croatian state and it was getting a positive air, this government couldn't afford the luxury of talking about Croatia in Europe as a country that was incorrectly reporting and that didn't meet any criteria. That's one thing. The second thing is whether this apartment by arrangement is discussed in the Croatian Parliament or not. The rebalance was calculated because of the stand by the arrangement. The amendment of the law on special tobacco taxes and cars was due to stand by the arrangement. The DRuga thing nor the very key addition stand by arrangement last year in 7 months was not discussed in Croatian saboteur, the third thing until the moment until we got clear signals it was at the end of 7 months, from the international monetary fund that this text would be accepted we could not publish the text stand by the arrangement. That was at the end of seven months. So the moment the Board Director accepted the stand by arrangement 4. 8. on the Croatian National Bank's website appeared the integral text stand by the arrangement. So much, Mr. President, me and my colleagues, I don't know if colleagues from the Croatian National Bank since in their competence monetary policy have anything to add. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22659	Thank you very much. If he wants to. Correction of the incorrect allegations by the respected deputy president Mato Arlovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22660	Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary. In point 25 of the memorandum, it is clearly prescribed among other quotes "The Croatian Privatisation Fund intends to privatise all companies with a government stake of up to 25% by the end of the year. And all other stakes in his portfolio by the end of June 2005. Outside the portfolio of the fund and took it further." Therefore, this memorandum explicitly set the time limit for and the forms of privatisation to be carried out.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22661	Thank you. President of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget of Šima Prtvenjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22662	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister, members of the CNB, colleagues and colleagues. After the introduction into the agenda, today the Finance Committee finally put this item on its session. And I've come to the following conclusions. At the 16th session today, on 13 October 2004, the Finance Committee, the Croatian Parliament's expensive budget, discussed the Memorandum of Economic and Financial Policy and the new stand by the IMF arrangement, which was delivered to the president of the Croatian Parliament by the SDP club by an act of 1 September 2004 and by additional material delivered on 24 September 2004. The financial and public budget committee of the Croatian Parliament shall, on the basis of its competence referred to in Article 65. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament discussed that act as a parent working body. It is an introductory representative because it is two acts of the SDP Club, and as the proposing representative of the SDP Club explained the need to open a discussion on the memorandum of economic and financial policy, and a new stand by the RS agreement with the IMF, which sets out the proposals for the conclusion of the supplementary material submitted by the SDP representative club to the parliamentary procedure proposing not to accept the Memorandum of Economic and Financial Policy of the Government of the Republic of Croatia as of 13 July 2004 because of the failure to complete the conclusions of the Croatian Parliament of 20.8. 2002 in connection with the relationship between the Republic of Croatia and the IMF. Several opinions have been expressed and let the ones that were more significant be expressed. Following the introduction of a representative of SDP's club, the following positions were presented in the discussion on the committee. The opinion was expressed that the memorandum on economic and financial policy by the government of the Republic of Croatia as the Government of the Republic of Croatia promised to implement a series of measures that would reflect citizens' living standards. In particular, this applies to the increase in excise duties, and to the implementation of additional measures in the light of the increase in participation for medicinal products, the reduction in the number of exemptions from participation, the introduction of changes in supplementary health insurance, the possible elimination of certain tax reliefs as well as reductions in the number of goods subject to a zero VAT rate and so on. Regarding the question of debt to pensioners, he noted that how the Government of the Republic of Croatia decided to use only state-owned shares in enterprises or other types of capital and plans to consult IMF staff and world banks before establishing the details of this solution and access to its implementation. The question has been asked to justify the speedy privatisation of what we heard. The view is expressed that such conceived programmes do not form the basis for accelerated economic growth. Second, it was warned that the Republic of Croatia is a signator of a Stabilisation and Association Agreement with the European Community and their Member States. It also assumed compliance with the obligation to respect and implement a series of obligations. In addition, it noted that the previous stand by arrangement with the IMF was not carried out due to the failures made in the area of fiscal policy at the end of 2003. Most criteria set for the end of December 2003 are not met. The new government of the Republic of Croatia has decided to allow the previous stand by arrangement to be completed without conducting a third and final review of the implementation of the programme. And they also begin negotiations on a new stand by arrangement. Overcoming the fissile objectives significantly destabilised the entire programme, so it was found that the budget deficit achieved in the consolidated general government in 2003 was 12.2 billion kuna or 6.3% of the gross national income value, not originally 9.8 billion, or 5.1%) of the gross national income. It is also noted that with the high fiscal deficit last year, the government of the Republic of Croatia also assumed a high level of foreign debt. The view is expressed that the policy to be implemented under this stand by the arrangement aims to restore order to public finances, reduce current balance of payments deficits, reduce foreign debt, improve private sector activity, and reduce the role of the state. This will create a basis for long-term competitiveness and growth in the economy. After the debate was held, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament decided by majority vote, 6 for, 3 for and 1 abstention to propose to the Croatian Parliament the following conclusion: 1. The Memorandum of Economic and Financial Policy and the new stand-by arrangement of the Republic of Croatia with the IMF and 2. The conclusions proposed by the Club of Representatives of the SDP in the supplementary material are not accepted, the class has been mentioned since September 2004, and in the context of discussions on the Memorandum of Economic and Financial Policy and the new stand by the Republic of Croatia with the IMF. Mr. President, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22663	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. The club of representatives of the HSS, the respected representative of Zlatko Tomcic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22664	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. From this pay phone, I have at least four times called on all the parties in this House to consult, of course on behalf of the HSS Club when it came to some of the topics I evaluated and we in the Club estimated that they were important to the state interests. It was about the unsuccessful attempt to reduce VAT, it was about national pensions, it was about protecting the Adriatic, it was about liberalising trade in agricultural products, known protocol 7. These topics are usually either silenced or ignored or turned into accusations. And there will always be and there will be topics that are important for national interests and where some consensus will have to be reached. I have no doubt that there will be above all issues important for the integration processes and for the country's economic policy. And today he would be willing to talk about the need for a reasonable analysis of the need to enter this stand by arrangement with the IMF that there are no non-ordinary facts. This arrangement is concluded despite the ban of this Croatian Parliament. So the government did something she shouldn't have done. Equilibristics that Mr. Myonstar is trying to justify that it is not quite so, I think it is simply transparent, and I think it simply offends this Parliament. This Parliament has banned the government from signing a new stand by arrangement before the Parliament approves it. To dare do such a thing, you should have great courage, but then you should have courage, so you admit that part of the economic policy actually from this Parliament, from the ingenuity of this Parliament, has been transferred to the International Monetary Fund. In such circumstances, I think it's immeasurable to talk about asking for consent, because there's obviously no room for it anymore, because the matter is over, at least as far as the government is concerned. So we can only talk about facts. I'm starting with the fact that I'm going to try to back up, explain. The government of the Republic of Croatia has signed a harmful stand by arrangement for Croatia. So the last stand by arrangement I estimate harmful to Croatia. Everything else is actually going to be a reason for this fundamental thesis. In the reasons that the IMF stated, including the Croatian government to sign such a stand by arrangement, there were two notor facts that are no secret: an excessive deficit in the current balance of payments account or translation, too much public spending. I said today in those five minutes, when I spoke on behalf of the Club, so everyone in Croatia knows that we are too much public spending, everyone knows that we are functioning irrationally, it was the problem and the government in 91s and 95s and 2000s, and the problem is this and these governments, and it just has to find a way to reduce public spending in this country. The second reason to conclude this stand by the arrangement is too much ino duty. Of course, and that is true, but with one small observation that in an analysis of the duties of the Republic of Croatia, we must at least speak openly in this home, what is the State's responsibility, what is the duty of economic operators, what is the duty of banks, what is the duty of individuals etc. If I am able to monitor the data well, it seems to me that the duty of this moment itself would not give us an epithet to talk about the overindebtedness of the Republic of Croatia. Based on these two basic facts, the economic policies that are represented in this arrangement with the IMF that insist on price and exchange stability, accelerated privatisation, low development rates, 3.5-4.5%, limitation of debt, reduction of the balance of payments deficits, or public spending and fiscal adjustment have arisen. It's actually nothing new, except for some details, when you look at the policy of the International Monetary Fund. There are no important new elements. These were all the conditions of the International Monetary Fund so far. It's already seen monetaryist approach, a stabilisation policy, for us in the HSS spent model, but obviously not for the IMF and for this government. We must once and for all understand that the International Monetary Fund, that its role is primarily to provide creditors, ensure the repayment of debts made by Croatia from external institutions. In return, Croatia needs a new development policy, a new economic policy, which will allow for the dynamicisation of economic growth at significantly higher rates of 7-8% per year, not at 3.5% and economic adjustment to the European Union at a higher level of gross domestic product. This means, above all, the resolution of the core brakes of the Croatian economy, and the main brakes of the Croatian economy are the structural divide, Croatia has run out of production, Croatia has no production, and now we are planning an increase of only 3.5% in this arrangement. Another major problem for the Croatian economy is unemployment, 3000 more or less, but however we turn, about 300,000 unemployed move. The third major problem of the Croatian economy is the total incompetence of domestic production, which is the one that remains on the foreign market, the total incompetence of exports. Unfortunately, lately, we have an increasingly frequent phenomenon that domestic production is also uncompetitive on its own market, for various reasons, because of the exchange rate, for external market subsidies, or for producers in the external markets. The fourth problem is the indifference of a country that is growing again. The fifth problem is the slow dynamics of structural change towards the European Union. The arrangement, this arrangement simply does not provide answers to these fundamental issues. I don't think at all that it would, that it was in principle forbidden to talk about stand by arrangement. They certainly have their own useful things. Croatia is still dependent on foreign financial markets and, of course, on foreign financial markets and on the IMF. However, under such conditions and only with this positive in this "stand by" arrangement that we have some reputation in the external markets is simply a devastating restriction. The devastating restriction on the low growth rate. The increase in both deficits and external debt can be limited or prevented only by strong development rates. Much higher development rates in the Republic of Croatia, and this then involves many other elements of new economic policies. I'll just tax them out because in 15 minutes, of course I can't, I can't explain everything. First of all, clear strategies that again seek some agreement in this House, but strategies that will not be subject to the interpretations of every government that comes to power at this time or time. Secondly, privatization in the employment service, not the mystery of the problem, let's take down the problem one by one and just finish, let's say we no longer have unprivited companies. There, in any case, these economic policies include the active role of the state through strategic planning, through investment, through guarantees, through loans. The activation of foreign reserves for development, for exports, etc., and this is a topic that can be discussed very much, there is not enough time to explain. The demonopolisation of the capital markets. Our banking system is fully privatised, 95% in the hands of foreigners and let us not imagine that foreign financial capital will seek Croatian interests. He's looking for his bosses' interests. Therefore, the Croatian government must finally understand that it must begin to form domestic financial institutions, domestic banks in the hands of the Croatian state. Furthermore, the need for vertical integration of economic branches can certainly come to these measures. There is a very important role for the state, not just for the markets. Correct integration of the public and private sector, but not without legal basis, not based on interpretation of the Law on Mandatory Relations or in other ways, but on the creation of a Law on the Connecting of Public and Private Sectors. At this point, it may sound heretic when I say that one of the possible measures is also a reduction in tax rates. Of course, the Minister of Finance raises hair on his head when his budget revenues are out, but Croatia will not be tax-competitive, it will not be tax-attractive, it will not be investment-attractive with such high tax rates as it has. I know this moment sounds heretic, but Croatia simply needs to find a model to reduce tax rates. So there is certainly protection of domestic production and the creation of a national market in these possible measures while we still have the conditions to create a national market. Of course, all these elements that I've listed should be explained in detail. It is neither the time nor the time to talk about this matter alone, but I hope that in this Croatian Parliament we will have a chance to talk more about the economic policies that Croatia needs with higher development rates, with the intensive and dynamicization of Croatian production and then a far easier solution to these problems, which is why this "stand by" arrangement is signed. The subject of a fixed course simply cannot be heresy in this society anymore. And this little bit of production that's focused on exports, it's simply castrated by a fixed rate and we simply have to open up the kuna course as a topic. The export economy is completely uncompetitive, its incompetence is growing rapidly, and there is further erosion of domestic production due to the attractiveness of imports. Imports are becoming more attractive in this economy. Instead of the fixed rate at which the International Monetary Fund insists, we know that the adjustment of the course is actually a condition of economic recovery, but we also know that adjustment, the skating of the course threatens citizens. It's no kind of heresy, so I'm saying that we need to speak openly about the question of the fixed rate. As unfavourable as it may be for the exporters, it is certainly unfavourable for our citizens who are over-indebted, who in general in our domestic banks who are in the hands of foreign capital sign foreign currency contracts and any change in the exchange rate threatens a large number of people. There's no doubt about it. However, we need to know that we are not the only ones in the world who have encountered this problem. There are other European countries that have had the same problem and have managed to find a model. How? By introducing a sliding exchange rate, home currency creates circumstances for citizens not to be damaged, but rather for those who have benefited most from this. First of all, the banking system. Of course the state must be involved in that. However, there must be political will and there must be a political decision to discuss something broader and more accurate on the fixed exchange rate of kuna. To get out of this situation in which Croatia is located, it will be one of the most important topics. And finally, I want to say very clearly that in the HSS Club with this, this monetaryist approach to economic policies that are represented in this arrangement, not by a development approach, with the development rates of a modest level of 3.5, 4.5% and with a fixed exchange rate of kuna, we believe that Croatia has no chance of resolving its fundamental issue present at this moment. This is a question of unemployment and the need to adapt quickly to the European economy. What I said this morning, I'll do it again. In order for the realists to say this situation that the arrangement is harmful and we really think it's harmful. In order for pessimists to say that the Republic of Croatia is falling into economic chaos, and to say that we still have a chance and try to create such economic policies that the country will get out of this situation, to enable us to grow higher economic growth, to enable the employment of citizens of the Republic of Croatia and thus create circumstances for raising the overall standard in this country, not those small, small, restrictive measures that directly affect our citizens from this "stand by" arrangement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22665	Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the respected representative Krunoslav Markovnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22666	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, in a number of incorrect allegations, it is particularly incorrect that Croatia has lost its production. This is otherwise an allegation contrary to HSS claims that they have made a big boom in small and medium enterprises, so let them finally decide. They either helped or destroyed entrepreneurship.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22667	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of HSLS and DC, the esteemed representative Ivan Chehok. He's gone, he's losing the right club word on this subject. On behalf of the Club of HSP MPs, respected representative Tonci Tadic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22668	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Mr. Minister and gentlemen of the Croatian National Bank. During the 2002 parliamentary debate on the past "stand by" arrangement between Croatia and the IMF, all parliamentary clubs stressed the need for a parliamentary debate before signing any new commitments to the IMF. In this regard, the Parliament also adopted a special conclusion, however, no one from the government has requested the Assembly's statement of a new stand by arrangement, and it is indeed unacceptable. By the way, the Croatian government also dealt with a number of topics in 2001 and 2002 as well as this year in 2004 before making a stand by the arrangements and the media was filling up with all and all of them rarely distracting the public from this extremely important topic. THAT smoke curtain has been repeated all these years when it comes to an economic social theme. It is worth reminding that also in January 2001, when the government's memorandum on economic and social policy in the IMF in Croatia was under way against General Norco's campaign. The liberalisation of the energy market was conducted in a sandwich to discuss relations with the court in The Hague. Similarly, in the shadow of the start of the persecution of General Gotovina, the circumstances of the privatisation of Croatian Telekom were forgotten. That's how it was then. Today, public debates for and against the removal of certain monuments were also more important than the economic social moves of the government and than the conditions under which this stand by arrangement was concluded, these are facts. In particular, it should be noted that standing by arrangement is not the only possible form of cooperation with the IMF. Each IMF Member State shall agree to one of the forms of cooperation with the IMF, with the first and most minor form of co-operation as referred to in Article 4. The IMF Statute and then by weight, the IMF's influence is followed by informal monitoring, enhanced surveillance, precautionary arrangement, and stand by arrangement and finally the strictest form of cooperation, i.e. an extended arrangement. From independence to today, the Republic of Croatia has gone through all these forms of cooperation. We had a stand by arrangement back in '96 and an extended arrangement in '97, so in '99, they were only in effect consulting under Article 4 and after that they were in the game of standing by arrangements. On the other hand, it is quite clear that a government that does not have a clear economic programme cannot elect any more favourable arrangement for Croatia in negotiations with the IMF. When making arrangements with the IMF, the rule is that the stricter the arrangement, the more susceptible the country is to the IMF experiments and the growing link with the actual state and effects of the proposed measures. Some countries, for example, have therefore cancelled their stand by arrangement with the IMF because their effects were unacceptable. Some others, for example, have obediently followed the IMF, resulting in a sharp decline in living standards and without the expected development of the economy. And in Argentina, that almost led to the destabilising of the charm. Joseph... the former World Bank's chief economist argues that this is precisely because the IMF and the World Bank imposes the same concept on each country despite the causes of the economic crisis from country to country. The same solutions are always offered, regardless of the real situation and the possibilities of getting out of the crisis. The first step that is always offered is general privatisation for allegedly entering permanent capital, primarily large state-owned enterprises and reducing state-owned investments. The second step, as a rule, is to liberalise the capital market and privatise banks, which is almost completely done with us. The third step is to market all prices and reduce labour prices and cut social rights and the fourth is free trade according to the WTO recipe that has already been done with us. Regardless of the IMF's advice, no government has to accept them either, and accepts them then and only if there is nothing smarter to offer in its economic programme. It is therefore particularly important to compare this stand by arrangement with the one from 2002. Either way, we're talking about speeding up privatisation. Two years ago, there was talk of privatising 25% of INA shares, dividing HEP into parts, possible privatisation of power plants this year. It was planned to sell 30% of Croatia's insurance, on the stock market, division of 7% of HT shares to employees, which is everything else in theory and plans. This year, this stand by is talking about the same but with the rapid privatisation of all companies with 25% state stake, the continuation of the privatisation of INA, the continuation of the privatisation of HT but no division of shares to employees. Also in 2002 was the planned sale of the Croatian Post Bank by phase and the acquisition of Croatia's bank this year is talking about the privatisation of both banks. Mostly apart from the difference in the planned real growth of the economy, because in 2002 4.2% of real growth was talked about and now 3.7% of real growth are all other cosmetic differences between one and the other stand by the arrangement. Both, followed by the usual IMF recipes for the country's economic problems. We are interested in whether Croatia can offer the IMF at all a state-driven economic development programme that does not burden this budget more than the existing costs of the state. In our court, he can. First of all, as regards privatisation and entry of foreign capital, foreign capital rarely invests in the construction of new plants rather than buying the strategic national infrastructure that each government has under some kind of control especially if the government is its business partner. We are here, however, in the situation that the privatisation of HT and the privatisation of INA also went unsolicited during. Foreign capital prefers to enter banks, telecommunications, energy systems, ports and roads. It is clear that it is pointless to privatise large state systems if it is its own purpose or if its objective is currently to fill the budget with the allocation of assets. Such privatisation, which does not aim to capitalise or invest and HT is the best example, leads only to destabilisation and capture of the state. In the privatisation of HT, not only was the state-owned firm, which we all created, paying for overpriced phone connections. Privatisation is privatized and committed to a foreign multinational key telecommunications system of optical cables and digital power plants. This means Deutsche Telecom actually manages, literally masters of Croatia's telecommunication future, not only of Croatia's state and state administration but of all Croatian citizens. And there's no shift in the economy without a shift in telecommunications. And how much investment there really was in HT says the best current heartless layoff of HT workers that will certainly not be the last. It was similar with the privatisation of INA. It cannot lead the stability of the state if the privatisation contract guarantees the strategic partner that, despite buying only 25% of the shares will have 51% of the management rights. Thus, MOL with 25% shares is sovereignly managed by INA as if it were a majority owner, and powers do not originate with the Croatian Law on Commercial Companies but from a series of disastrous agreements concluded with MOL after that privatisation. And here, as with HT, the apparent higher income from privatisation in both HT privatisations and the 98th and 2001s, this larger income is actually compensated by the country's colonial attitude towards foreign companies. We in HSP have no objection that there is a monopoly but only if it is in the hands of the Croatian state, but for us it is unacceptable monopoly if it is in the hands of a private company and especially foreign companies. If so, it is our duty to encourage all of us to liberalise that part of the market. If you already want to encourage investment in a public private partnership then it is necessary for ladies and gentlemen of the government to pass the final Law on Public Private Partnership, even if it is based on so-called. the green paper on public private partnership drawn up by the European Union. Unfortunately, we are still in place by completely detiming the Investment Encouragement Act, I say by detimizing for small entrepreneurs and for the returnees from the eviction. The IMF's demand to reduce state investment is also not fully acceptable. But we also know that it is necessary to better control not only the effect, but the purpose of state investments and subsidies. The best example is the construction of highways in Croatia, where our Club systematically warned about irregularities and failures of the Ministry of Public Works and in getting jobs and in performing, and this all continued together in the Bechtel case. Croatia therefore definitely needs state investments and for the modernisation of Croatian railways, because they contribute to the competitiveness of Croatia and its ports and international frameworks, as well as the survival of the domestic metal industry. We also need investments in shipbuilding, so in addition to the continuous recoverys that have been quite ineffective so far, we should offer to build new ships to rebuild the domestic fleet. So, I don't believe that anyone in the IMF would have anything against such clearly justified programmes, but they were obviously on the Croatian side two years ago, and today they weren't clearly carried out, but they were blindly accepted recipes by the IMF. As for the liberalisation of the capital market, 93% of the value of the banking sector is in the hands of foreigners. The results of this foreign domination over the banking sector were best seen in the incredible oscillations of kuna courses for the 2001 tourist seasons. So, the People's Bank is actually regulated by the exchange rate of kuna because it's actually regulated by foreign banks. In addition, in the case of a free capital market at least the way the IMF imagines capital is rather drained from a country that does not have its own production, even through a number of loans for the purchase of import goods. Ownership of banks means actually control of the Croatian economy. What is the situation, it is quite clear, today it is far easier to get credit for the purchase and import of goods than to credit for investments in the Croatian economy. But that is why Croatia needs its business bank, Croatia needs its Croatian Post Bank and we do not agree to its privatisation. One of the IMF recipes is the market price determination of products and services. But what we are particularly concerned about is the uninterrupted tendency from these recipes to reduce labour prices and reduce social giving. This trend will have a particularly bad impact on the example of the destruction of the health insurance system. Because certain goods, certain services simply must not be the subject of a competition and each government must have the strength to tell the IMF that it is unacceptable. Except for a part of people who have a completely naive notion of capitalism, economic development and the market economy. After all, neither the Irish nor the Slovenians went to such moves as are so easily accepted here. Clearly, certain denials are needed to get out of the crisis. But these denials of ladies and gentlemen from the government will be easier to implement if they are part of the national consensus, if they are short-lived and if they are part of some meaningful development strategy. We still don't have a social pact here with unions and employers. It's not the same way to monitor the end of experiments in the tax system. We were shrinking first, so we were returning the VATs, experimenting with income tax. And what is crucial, if the Government really wants the economy to grow, then it is not enough to shake up and love the possible percentages of growth, but rather to go to the economics first and ask them what really bothers them to do better business, and then go to the union and ask them what they need to do to achieve as much efficiency as possible by ignoring their rights at the level that guarantees international labour organisations conventions. So, for all these reasons, from the way this stand by arrangement was made he was completely unacceptable to us in HSP. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22669	Thank you. On behalf of the IDS Club, Honorable Representative Damir Cain, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22670	Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor, Mr. Secretary, Two years ago, the opposition strongly attacked that government, which signed a stand by arrangement with the IMF, claimed at that time in the opposition more precisely in the HDZ, and it would be very convenient to see the phonograms as discussed, that the government had issued national interests, which the stand by arrangement with the IMF, had been requested that the government step down. The government and the majority in parliament agreed at that time to those conclusions that in a future stand by arrangement with the IMF, the opposition's previous consent is being reached. However, I would also like to say that even then the agreement with the IMF was about the same as this. The deficit reduction was required, the portfolio privatisation was requested, unfortunately, and in this,... and the change of labour legislation, so the paradox turned out, that the left had abolished the social clauses that were elected for, from our employment under 3 January, the same thing is happening today in Germany that CES was abolishing pension gains that had been given to the German workers at CED, but let us now, the people will say the agreements are to be broken. And as an agreement, I've been against every one of your... legislation. and as the agreement with the IMF did not respect the former government, mostly the elections, so the deficit did not retain the agreed borders, so I am sure that neither this stand by arrangement for a 20-month period will respect its name nor the current government made up of HDZ parties, DC, HSLS, HSU, etc. And I'm afraid it's a tragedy. It was in what was before, and God will be with me now. It sounds unpopular when you say it, and it may sound like blasphemy, but all of us here, and especially members of the former and current government, know that Croatia lives above its possibilities. I'll repeat, citizens, we all live above the possibility of this country. And it's a tragedy. This tragedy doesn't end in control, but only, but here and there we know clearly for a moment to escape from all of it, to raise a monument here or there, and then we have fun. Secondly, it is the hardest in this country, and it is the most politically invaluable to tell the truth. And Croatian truth was shown in agreements with the IMF. This was the case in 2002, when the agreement challenged the HDZ, and today when the opposition disputed the agreement. I will repeat Croatia living above the possibility of my economy. And we're gonna have to confess to ourselves and the world that day. Thirdly, as there would be no responsible government that would not, for example, cooperate with The Hague Court, so not at this time, that is my opinion, the IDS Club is a responsible government that would not cooperate with the IMF and especially in the context of this pre-accession strategy of the Gotovina developments and so on. The former opposition, and the current government has challenged a whole series of measures by the former government, such as reduction of labour legislation, VAT policy, etc., but today it is clear when in power it will not bite into that sour apple. What am I saying? It is not a problem that arrangements with the IMF are signed, as these agreements become government's political economic documents. It is already a problem that citizens in the election campaign are often knowingly deceived, and this is a tragedy, but the people will say the agreements are there to break. The government's deficit was once promised to go down to 4.5%. Apparently it's 6.3% and it's clearly a serious burden to the government, because their first year is de facto lost if it's $12.2 billion, so it's some noose around their necks. But the new stand by arrangement comes from the following measures. In 2004, there is no real wage increase and in 2005 there is a need to curb the growth of the wage mass up to 3%. What does that mean? This is primarily a market for 1.4 million workers but also a disappointment on the other hand for a million pensioners who expected next year to comply with 50% of the average salaries, 1.1.2006. 60 etc. Which clearly of all that will end up being nothing, and that should be said to those people. I argue, there should never be a question when we are already on these debts, debt returns or pension benefits if it amounts to 20 billion kunas clearly within one appropriate deadline of five, six, seven years but the harmonisation of pensions will unfortunately not be possible. However, how pensions will return if one of the IMF measures is the agreement that by the end of 2004 we must sell all shares in the Croatian portfolio up to 25% which will not be enough for the Croatian Privatisation Fund's deblockation. This is the point followed by further privatisation of family silver from Croatia's insurance and from Croatia's Bank, Post office, then by the end of 2005 it should sell 15% of the shares of the INA, implement the third phase of the privatisation of the Croatian Telecom, etc.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22671	I'm asking MPs not to use cell phones.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22672	Not only that, but the privatisation of Croatian shipbuilding and even Croatian forests, Jadrolini, must be prepared in the end, and if this happens then Croatia's electricity industry will be clearly, and that would still be too much. I don't believe it's agreed to within the government just without talking to all the ruling parties. But I don't think I have a deal with the IMF. I think he's necessary. It's absurd that some other government wouldn't sign it, but I'm not sure any other government would agree to that kind of privatisation. It is not good that this agreement proposes, but the people will say the agreements are to be broken. Clearly, it's a Balkan logic, but we often finance it that way. We can talk about a zero rate, a little later, but just something else about that external debt. We're falling into debt crisis. Last year's debt increased by 4.5 billion euros. In these seven, in fact, in seven months, I have data of nearly 2.5 billion euros and already today in debt amounts to 26 billion dollars or in the seventh month end, it was 27.3% more than in 2003 and represents significantly faster growth than gross social product growth or external debt from 73.8% of GDP in 12 months 2003 increased to 79.2% in the seventh month of 2004 and is already above the limits of stand by arrangement and that for the $600 million circus. That's why I say agreements are to be broken. On the other hand, this leads to one extreme dependence on external borrowing and if we stop this external borrowing chain and we will have to give Croatia a terrible shock. Croatia needs about 5 billion euros or 6 billion dollars for normal functioning. for payments ino of debt increased for current balance of payments deficits. It is only durable if the deficit both fiscally and that balance sheet is continued with the fall, and therefore the job that Minister Schuker must do together with Governor Rohatinski will be very difficult. So, to curb consumption, limit the appetites of its partners and tell the public that it simply has to fit on the ball in a country that has been taught to live off imports of clearly external debt. Therefore, I fear that the ruling party will ultimately not be ready to choose this because it is the most difficult because there is simply a choice between the consolidation of public spending on the one hand and the possibility of losing the election. If this happens secondly, if the coalition loses power for nothing, the government will move to the opposition but if this second one does not happen first to reduce public spending, to lower the deficit to these 4.5% in 2004, this year 3.5, the next etc. Up to 3%, I'm afraid many citizens may move to the streets. Therefore, a minimum of decency would require that, prior to the conclusion of the stand by the arrangements in the commitments undertaken, the opposition in some way informed the opposition about how it did Drnovšek with its parliamentary clubs of the Piran Bay - Savudrija vala. It's clear that a parliamentary debate I don't know at that point before the conclusion might, on the side and the conclusion would be illusory because there would be no agreement between me, but even though I come from a city where official unemployment is 2 to 2.5%, where exports per capita are over $10,000, that's Buzet. No one has such a classic export except Buzet and Buzet has no sea disorders in the country the most painful would feel exactly the environments like Buzet and therefore I really ask the government to put that public spending in some way under control. In this country, someone used to say, I mean Mr. Tadic, there are a few things that we should all agree on. It is certainly a relationship to The Hague, it is a relationship to the IMF, about solving deficits, the relationship with the European Union, the face-to-face of simply living in this country above the economic potential of the Croatian economy, and so it will not go on forever and therefore I have to let people work because we will not be able to live forever on imports or on such borrowing as is now at work. We'll also see how this stand-by arrangement will be translated into the 2005 budget and that's what it is. Now we all know that capital investments should be reduced from this year's 7% to 5.9% of gross social product, social benefits should be slightly increased from 39.4 to 41 billion kuna. It is only for inflation and wages even for less than 18.9 billion kuna per 19.2 billion kuna which is certainly not going to be a policy of social peace in the public sector or the state sector, although in Croatia, individuals from the public sector are mostly strike, rarely when from private evidence that this first means public peace is still incomparably better than in private, so if we want to do so incomparably less work than in private. And finally, the question is how to ask. I think it's best to be restrained even though I'm going to do it again. There's no government that wouldn't cooperate with The Hague and no one who wouldn't cooperate with the IMF. And as for how the IDS Club voted on labour legislation in 2001-2002, we were absolutely against what was a serious destruction of labour security compared to what our workers had before the change of government.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22673	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP Club, respected representative Slavko Linic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22674	Mr. President, ministers, representatives of the National Bank, colleagues and colleagues! The SDP club estimates that the Government of the Republic of Croatia is afraid to present its programme of economic and financial policies and economic movements to Croatian citizens. We estimate that the memorandum of economic financial policy indicates that Sanader's government has no plan for the development and growth of the Croatian economy. We estimate that there is neither the necessary knowledge nor agility in the fight for a higher growth rate, investment in large infrastructure, and the promotion of the economy. The insufficient rate of growth is the reason that Sanader's cabinet is leaving development and construction projects of large infrastructure and unfortunately introduces restrictions to the preservation of the standards of Croatian citizens. From this reason, they will not be able to solve the biggest problem and that is unemployment in the Republic of Croatia. Nor allow for the painless adjustment of the Croatian economy to join the European Union. And that is why the SDP Club then suggested that this kind of behavior that after 3 months we are working on a memorandum, and on the other hand, this text also evaluates the obstruction of the parliament as well as an unacceptable government document on economic and financial policy. Before we try to explain our apartments like this, we might say a surprise. On the right track, I would say the history of socialism and socialist Croatia, but this new era of ours, too, we have a minister who accuses the former government of being the cause of such a memorandum. Socialism has always accused the IMF of being the cause of such a memorandum. The former government had the courage to say it was our program. And gentlemen at the IMF, Mr. Schucker told you it's not their program, but it's unfortunately a program because of the poor work of the former government. It's not their program then we really have to wonder why it's not a program and why Shucker's giving up that program. It is likely that fear of the citizens of Croatia is unlikely for reasons that it is difficult to show that thinking must change in a year. Because collaboration with the IMF is high treason, today is a need.Privatisation of high treason continues today, even a sailline for privatisation in Croatian forests is being introduced which has never been mentioned. Yes, Shuker introduced, Minister Shuker is now very clear data that the reason for this proposed government's economic and financial programme is the reason for the former government and not their will to manage Croatia. To solve problems in Croatia. Now let me get back to discussing the very memo. It is an interesting first grade in the memorandum that clearly states that Croatia is also a market economy country, some reforms have seen significant growth, and some stability. All of this has been stated and this has been the reason why the European Union has positively assessed Croatia in its decision on candidacy. And particularly interesting is the second part of the memorandum that says that the biggest problem in Croatia, imagine, structural problems are too much public spending, too much public spending in GDP, and inefficient public sector. These are the most important problems. And then, in second place, it brings data and high total external debt. And that's what's interesting, because if we want to find a good solution we want to aim at how to solve the problem of structural change, how to solve the problem of over-stakes and inefficient share of public spending, at this point we need to realize that exactly the growth rate is the most important solution that we have to talk about. The rate of growth. And he didn't mention it in the memo. Therefore, it is not the goal of trying to solve major problems in Croatia, but rather of trying to bring down certain instruments to a lower level. We cannot achieve the rate, and then we really wonder if it will be possible to solve the problem of structural problems in the Croatian economy and the excessive and inefficient share of public spending. What to say about that rate, in the four years of the coalition government it was on average above 4.1%. All documents on the RS strategy say that if we are to reach $15,000 GDPs per capita, the rate should be around 6% for the next 5 years. About 6%. Because $15,000 is the minimum we would have to achieve in order to achieve two important goals. Reduced unemployment means guaranteeing people a job and allowing the Croatian economy to adapt to European business conditions in as little trauma as possible. Unfortunately, 3 and a half percent talk that in the next 21 years, we will be able to reach these 15,000 euros per capita. Twenty-one years. And it is evident that it is impossible then to achieve important goals and are already mentioned goals. Is that possible, so you see it necessary to say that in 4 years, the coalition government has grown 75% of GdPi per capita. And it came to seven thousand dollars. She came forward in four years. What we estimate over the next 10 years with a rate of about 6% over the next 5 years, 10 years can achieve 100% increase. But that goal has not been set in the government's document, and of course until that moment, and there are problems that we consider critical. At such a low rate of 3 and a half percent, it is impossible to achieve the government's influence on development projects in Croatia, impossible to see the government's presence and what is most important how to hire not only the government of the entire public sector to be efficient and to be in function of the economy. At an unambitious rate, we're not gonna make it happen. And that is why we very clearly want to say we will never know more fixed dates and construction speeds, neither road to Dubrovnik or highway to Sisak, nor highway to Novi Vinodolski Žuta Lokva. There will be no deadlines, there will be only indications of projects, because the low rate, and of course the low rate that then gives and the unambitious instruments will not provide these projects. And that's why we say there's going to be a stop in the infrastructure, a big one. But we also want to say that this government was not brave enough to introduce 30 limes into the price of fuel to fund the railway project. 30 lipa only had to be provided in the price of fuel, and it wasn't just a railway, it was jobs in Đura Đaković, jobs in Končar, jobs in Gredel in the workshop Čakovec, and we don't list a number of those dealing with cable production. Yeah, they were about, uh, jobs, they were, I'd say the necessary risks this government had to take. 30 limes. But also this government has accepted that because of oil prices and oil prices, we have an increase in fuel of nearly 2 kuna. The price of fuel rises. Two kunas. And what's going on? Well, nothing. The government says we don't need to worry much, we're going to have some increased inflation, but the economy will be able to hurry, it'll hold. 2 kunas can be sustained due to oil growth prices, but 30 lipes for development do not. And that's why it left the project and why the law that was voted in this House... didn't change. Yeah, that shows where we differ significantly. It also says very clearly in this memo, it will reduce support, there will be no more lending, the activities of the HBOR will be reduced and there is then a very clear message. That the workers of the Vortex aren't the reason you're private, so you won't get the help of the state, no, the problem is because the government wrote it. He doesn't want to help anymore. It won't help, because he doesn't think it should. That's what it says in this document. And there are messages to the workers of the Vortex very clearly. But these are messages and "Sisak Irons." And those are their messages. This document says no more attempts. We will not talk about agriculture, because agriculture is waiting for huge problems with structural change and there will be no support for it, perhaps some European funds, but we will see, what is the price of it all. The biggest problem in Croatia is competitiveness, and this competitiveness in Croatia is also problematic due to high public sector costs, but in just 10 months new taxes or higher taxes. This is the result, which does not reduce burdens, nor creates competitiveness. And a new problem in competitiveness, it will cause us European adaptation, when due to environmental protection, the economy will be particularly burdened, which will be even more uncompetitive. And that's why the problem we have in this part is evident. Without the country's strong influence in the battle for development, it is difficult to expect that the economy will be competitive and that it will be able to pass all those transition processes so that we can say that we are successful participants in the European Union market. And then, of course, it's important, that we can justify this absence, to re-create the theories of fear. The budget deficit as one instrument for achieving the growth rate has been the subject of our conflicts and has been fighting for more than a year. I remain that the SDP Club will no longer engage in disputes and arguments, we have no objection, sue us, we are guilty as members of the former coalition government, but your task is to solve the deficit problem, it's yours. He must be with you instruments in a further battle for the economic progress of the Republic of Croatia. You are also scaring the citizens of Croatia with an ino debt and a balance of payments deficit, and in 10 months this year the state has become more in debt than the entire last year. Last year, the state. State. And the second is when we talk about citizens and when we talk about economy. Yeah, it's not about scaring citizens with debt, it's about how they repay debt. And that's the government's job. Well, here I was not able to speak on behalf of the club about the social problems caused by this stand by arrangement, so it will be my colleagues in individual debates. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22675	Thank you very much. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative Maria Byte.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22676	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In a series of incorrect allegations Mr Linic said in his debate, I will correct only one. I quote "Sanader's Government introduces restrictions in preserving citizens' standards". This is an incorrect allegation because, according to a February 2003 stand-by arrangement, the restrictions into the standard of citizens, the former government introduced the key to the success of the fiscal programme as a decisive policy of reducing salaries and reducing the number of employees, especially at the Ministry of Defence, by around 12,000 in 2003, and there was a change in fiscal methodology in the account of deficits and a very high external debt. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22677	Thank you, next correction, honourable representative Zeljko Nenadić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22678	Mr. President, just as my colleague said in a number of incorrect allegations, it is incorrect that the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Ministry of Finance, headed by Minister Shuker, is not concerned with solving the problem that exists, it is incontestable that the causes of the problem are one thing, and the strategy of the solution to this problem is quite another. It is indisputable first, that on November 23rd, the citizens' trust was won by this government, and you lost it, and it is undeniable also that you failed...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22679	A colleague of Nenadić, a colleague of Nenadić, has been correcting so far, you are now no longer correcting.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22680	Yes, I wanted to finally just say that this government headed by the Ministry of Finance has come to an end to solving these problems, and the first step in the strategy of this solution is to sign this arrangement with the IMF.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22681	Next correction, the esteemed representative Katarina Fuček.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22682	Dear President, when correcting Mr Linic's incorrect quote, which compared the projected growth rate of the government of 3.7%, claimed that it was not developmental and compared to a coalition that was above 4% in the previous years, or even 5.2 in 2002. What am I saying? What do I want to fix? I want to correct the incorrect assumption that this growth rate is real, and the growth rate resulting from their programme was the result of increased consumption and state investment. Otherwise, they wouldn't have projected from 2003. 4.3% compared to 2002 when it was 5.2%. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22683	Correction of an incorrect alleged, respected representative Emil Tomljanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22684	Mr. President, I would like to correct Mr. Linic's incorrect claim that the government's programme did not set the goal of development, referring to the rate of growth in unemployment growth and the increase in GDP by detailing some time periods even for 21 years. That is not true because these documents absolutely do not result, however, put other burning problems in priority. First of all, I mean introducing order into public finances, reducing current balance of payments deficits, reducing foreign debt and improving private sector activity, and reducing the role of the state. The document itself does not come directly from what you said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22685	Minister of Finance Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22686	Mr. President, I'm reporting for incorrect, correcting an incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22687	I didn't notice you and you're gone. ... You've reached out, but please, if you're answering, I have to notice. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] You can't answer it in a second. Correction of the incorrect quote, Josip Djakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22688	Mr. President, I would like to correct the inaccuracies of distinguished counterpart Linic, where he stated that the Croatian government, headed by Prime Minister Sanader, has neither the knowledge nor the will to address accumulated problems and unemployment problems, as well as an increase in the rate of growth. I just want to say that the Croatian government has definitely solved two goals in this IMF "stand by" arrangement. In the short term where order is introduced into public finances, Croatia limits the vulnerability caused by the high deficit in the current balance of payments account and the burdens on foreign debts that you have made. It is also the second medium-term, modernising and reducing the role of the state, improving the activity of the private sector and preparing Croatia to be competitive in the European Union. These are two key programmes of this Croatian government.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22689	Minister, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22690	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. I don't think the first part just doesn't have to be answered because it's never been talked like that in a Parliament like this, so I don't think it should be done anymore. But as for the increase in debt, I would just like to say something about the Croatian public. The foreign debt of the Republic of Croatia at the end of 2003 was 42 billion and 221 million kuna, and in 7 months 2004, it was 42 billion 644 million kuna. That's the data. Therefore, this government has not been in charge several times more than the last government. There is, clearly, the responsibility of the Croatian highways and there is a duty to repay the debt. You know very well that this year it comes at a charge of over 21 billion which is the principal, which is interest. But what I'd like to say when we talk about these "stand by" arrangements. It's very interesting when we talk about the deficit, then when I sign the deficit, then that deficit is good and should be displayed as small as possible, even though it is 2% higher. But when someone else does it then it's not in development function, it's harmful, it's catastrophic. It is very interesting that when a memorandum is signed outside the Croatian public that capital investment is reduced by 700 million kuna in half of the year, then it is in the development function and then it is the courage of the government. And when the second government signs that it will introduce order into the financing of Croatian highways and will reduce 700 million for those exceeded, it is not good. With 12 billion capital investments in 2003, miracles could be made, and with 12 and a half billion capital investments in 2004 nothing can be done. Very strange math. So, I would read again from the addendum of the February 2003 "stand by" arrangement signed outside of the Croatian public's eyes, in the 7th month of 2003, where capital expenditure is said to be reduced by the basis of the presumption of delays in the construction of highways, which occurred due to poor weather opportunities in early 2003 and will probably not fully compensate for the period until the end of the year, because certain restrictions related to capacity threaten to achieve expenditure. So there's a proposal to cut capital investments from 12 billion to 12 billion and 70 million. And it is even proposed that the deficit planned from 5% be reduced to 4.5% without pressure from the International Monetary Fund. And it is very interesting that 3 months behind this, the Supervisory Board of the Croatian highways brings an amendment to the income and expenditure plan, where it increases expenditures by billions and 600 million kunas. So, if these 700 million kunas were left inside then, there would be no unpaid what remains unpaid in the Croatian highways. But I ask the question, could 12 billion of them have been made so much more than 12 and a half billion in 2004? That they're such big indicators. Also, when we talk about the growth of national income per capita, then we all forget the impact of the dollar on that growth. How real is he, and how much does a dollar affect that growth? Because when you say 75%, then there is no resistance to any other macroeconomic indicator in Croatia. So that growth is solely due to the decline in dollars. Just like export growth in Croatia, therefore we also measured external debt in the "stand by" arrangement stated that it will be in euro. But also here is the word "wartex" mentioned today. We can mention Sisak. It's very interesting that with all the secret services and the police, we haven't been able to find where the guarantee is from the Mecelj. Very interesting. We came to the contract through a public notary, but the pay guarantee for a thousand 600 workers I with all my services failed to find. Where's the guarantee? "Vartex"? Yeah. "Vartex" is a problem because the government said it would not issue guarantees to private companies, but it did not say it would not help solve the problem of a thousand 600 workers. And I said publicly, it's not a problem, Radimir Cacic, for bail. Why? Well, Radimir Cacic isn't more important than a thousand 600 people. And someone tried to politicize it. So the Vortex will be helped in an adequate way, but not by issuing guarantees to the grandmothers and uncles. Because about guarantees in such a way, it's been a while to issue guarantees. And the Vortex will certainly be helped. So, the rate of growth. The growth rate passed by the government exclusively based on the debt. And that is why he is now afraid of whether Croatia is an overindebted country or Croatia is not an overindebted country. That the growth rate of Croatia was not so much on debt, that Croatia has not been so in debt over the past years, that today, as far as borrowing is concerned, no certain restrictions have been imposed on this government and certain problems have been solved. First of all, the problem of unemployment, the problem of economic growth, but more quality than this way of making it, then you wouldn't be talking about it this way. Last year, Croatia owed $8 and a half billion. However, the unemployment rate remained the same, the growth was lower than it was in 2002, and this growth is so large only because 5.6 billion were invested, in fact 7 billion invested in road construction. Therefore, what is objecting to this government would be very interesting to do screening between these two agreements. Well, among other things, as far as privatisation is concerned. When we talk about fast privatisation, then we need to look at what it said in the past arrangements and what those arrangements simply couldn't erase because you can't overwrite something that the government had committed itself to as it didn't exist. Among other things, it says that the government remains committed to selling all public enterprises and retaining a minority stake in some of them alone. The Croatian Privatisation Fund expects to reduce its pool portfolio to about 1100 companies by about one half by the end of 2003. So much for the accelerated privatisation of the Croatian Privatisation and Privatisation Fund of other public enterprises. This Agreement is not an agreement as well as a programme as Mr Linic says the International Monetary Fund is the economic policy of the government that was carried out several months before this stand by arrangement was signed. However, there will be time and we will be able to read about the wages, and among other things it says in this agreement, says although direct subsidies for railways and shipyards have increased the increased share of all subsidies in the gross and social product is more than compensated for lower transfers to pensions and health care whose growth has slowed down through the introduction of refoming pillar I. Clearly, the way was thought and chosen about Croatian citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22691	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect quote by a respected representative of the Mato Church.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22692	Thank you, Mr. President. Vartex should not be given a guarantee because it is a private company. Gentlemen of the government, don't let Verheugen hear you. Well, for God's sakes, what's the criterion for the guarantee being given to either private or state or mixed it doesn't exist anywhere in the whole world in any economy. Guarantees are given when there are reasons and justifications whether the company is private, whether it is a state-owned company. The past government has helped Vartex to support their capacities in Serbia, Montenegro, etc., why not, therefore never say it again, it is nonsense simply.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22693	Go ahead, Minister Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22694	I'd just like to say to an esteemed colleague that because of the bad experience of giving...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22695	Mr. Minister, go ahead and let the Rules of Procedure read a little more carefully.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22696	First of all, I would like to say that Vartex's problem is not aware of the problem of the guarantee, so this is about the unfavourable loans that Vartex has had since the years before, the loans he's been on, where the mortgage on Vartex's assets and most of the liabilities and the need of Vartex can be solved by reprogramming old loans. So, go give guarantees and end up like Victor Lenac, I don't think it would be wise.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22697	On behalf of the HNS PGS Club, Honorable Representative Radimir Cacic, please welcome.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22698	Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. President-in-Office of the Parliament. Introducing that my name was also mentioned around Vartex, I must say that in all of my life I had 3 shares of Vartex worth 127 kuna, although it is a serious obstacle to giving guarantees, please take that into account. So, however, the fact is that nowhere in the world when the state decides to support the market leader, the companies that depend on the existence of 3800 families, then the criterion is not whether it is private, mixed or state-owned, but all other criteria are those that influence it and I hope it will be here as well. It is absolutely certain that the interest of the Croatian state is not to put Vartex in a position to turn the foundation of its restructuring into money and that thousands of people remain on the road, namely it has property that can be guaranteed, so it can be covered by the state because it is marketable always starting with a retail network and some others, it is already known here. On our subject, of course, I must make it perfectly clear to me and understandably that the government that has made so many promises on one side is very reluctant to hold a public debate on a document that black on white with its signature most of these or all those promises collapse. If I were in this government's position, I'd probably also obstruct the possibility of discussing an arrangement with the IMF, so if not quite then, at least to the fact that it can't be seen through a key media called television. To do this on committees in a way that they usually come to us in my court very serious, educated and responsible people with the thesis that the debate on a memorandum signed by the government because there is no government opinion on that same memorandum is on the verge of madness. Whoever he's making a fool out of, I don't know, but probably whoever's saying it from themselves if I may notice it, and don't do it to us anymore because it's below the level of common sense. So now let's get back to this topic. It is an eternal doubt of any state authority whether to buy a day-to-day survival and perhaps tomorrow's in the chair of the government, staying within the framework of the perception of unaccounted Croatian citizens about politics and not only Croatian citizens, or to act stately, visionary, strategically and be prepared to go against daily ground-level interests, not to buy votes from today to tomorrow morning. This dilemma is always present and every government struggles with it. Of course, the right professional quality government, which can, will and knows at times when it is necessary to choose this path of statesmen and not day-to-day political politicians. It is certain that at all times the development of a country is not the same as the necessary approach. At times, bureaucratic surfaces are sufficient when countries are close to the optimism of using their capabilities then it is enough that there is just some government. But when countries were faced with cutting off a whole series of dramatic strikes by forces that brought down the economy and not just the economy, institutions, morals, professional ethics. When faced with something like Croatia, (a) transition from socialist to market system, (b) war, (c) the decomposition of the south-east market as our economy's domestic market, (d) the decomposition of the eastern markets, all these factors have the same impact on Shkegro's claim in its analysis, and it is good for him. At that time, such a country cannot function at the level of current business, that the business itself is being detached, such a country is seeking leadership, it is demanding strong leadership with vision, it must know where it is going. Such a country, of course, if it must and must sign the arrangements with the IMF, but it is a matter under what conditions at which point. At a time when she needs support to win a European Union bid, to stabilise on that path, she can also be more lenient. And the moment she's stabilized in that space then she sets the rules of the game and then that country, if she knows where she goes, draws out its goals which, of course, are completely different from the IMF's goal. Often and quite the opposite. That doesn't say anything to the IMF, or about that state, it's just about the essence of each of these factors' roles. The IMF in its statutes has drawn up the following. An institution which is required to keep an eye on the extreme liquidity of debtors in order to pay off annuities. And that's all. It is also a) and b) and c) and g). Each government essentially has the idea and task of quality the life of its citizens today and the basis for the quality life of its citizens tomorrow. It has nothing to do with what I just said, nothing to do with it. The goal is for those to pay for the anuity, and the government's goal is quality life today and development for tomorrow. By the way, one of the instruments, not the goal, is the instruments and the payment of the debts. It's just an instrument. The responsible government here today in Croatia has the space and opportunity to say, this is our position of IMF gentlemen, welcome if you want to play on our playground, and if you do not play elsewhere. And I have to tell you that our government may not have said it here, our government has taken such a stand and taken over it. There was no need for any dramatic shifts, but we had enough strength to stand. As Mr. Shuker has already said here, 5.1 is listed in CNB's papers, 5.0 was in our agreement, we reduced ourselves to 4.5, we shouldn't have, we might have made a mistake, our agreement said 5.0. The National Bank of Croatia has 5.1. The National Bank of Croatia has 5.1 in its documents. At the government's request, there is a record made of a modified variant of the deficit that is not in the papers there, but is in the IMFs at 6.3. When asked to the representatives of the bank whose request was made? At the government's request. What's involved in that? Some elements like railroads. Have they ever answered further, have they ever been railways so far since Croatia was included in the deficit? Never. And there's been an earlier tracking of the railroads. I wonder why it's not a shipbuilding that pays a $100 million level? We could've blown that up a little bit. And the third question at the end. If we blew the deficit on one new account for realisation, and not on payment, why is economic growth not properly shown? Because economic growth is no longer 4.7, he's 5.9 gentlemen. Because all these companies have their own reckoning, so just do a little math, that's not so hard and complicated. It's not much of a science, it's just rough math in the economy. That's what we gentlemen are talking about here. We can't go in here like this. We can't go in there like this. Or as we can see, we're trying for the public. But of course, it all has its limits. Let's see if this agreement that was signed gives real space to go somewhere seriously further. This is where the goals are already mentioned. Two targets are set. I am reading point 8. It says, the most important short-term objective of the programme will be achieved by restoring a sustainable pace of economic growth. We found minus 09. We're done with 5.2, which is now 5.9 in this account. What does that mean? So the most important short-term goal of the programme is to stop the country's growth and go back to where we were, and that's what it says, expecting that the credit loss... and restore fiscal discipline to the growth of the current GDP in the range of 3.5 to 3.75, so in 23 years, we're going to get closer to what we're talking about. [[/the speaker doesn't understand.]] That's what it says. This is the government's goal, which it has signed, and it has outlined as its goal, to stop the country's economic growth. Second goal. Stop the deficit. So on the one hand, we cut the development, we reduce growth, and on the other hand we stop the deficit. I'd say, let's at least make some use of the victim. But that's what I thought naively until the moment the papers of this same government were published, where black on white states that the deficit continues to grow strongly. What Mr. Linic said just to say, in total, when he turns into a kuna state, we don't private, not companies, not banks, in total last year, the state added 6.3 billion kuna. In total, up to 9 months this year, the state owed 6.7 billion kuna in 9 months this year. Not in a year, in nine months. National Bank of Croatia's report, quote. What are we gentlemen talking about here? We've signed, we'll stop the salary growth. We signed off, we're going to be counting on real growth pensions, another thing that we went through nominally, but for that, we're not going to have to have a reckoning with the IMF. We'll sign off on a third of the funding of local and regional self-government. We signed a reduction in participation, an increase in participation, a reduction in health care. We signed it all in this document, so of course the government doesn't want to discuss it. Well, I wouldn't be in their shoes either. Gentlemen, this country needs a government that knows where it's going, who knows what it wants and who is able to develop funded and through the deficit policy, of course and through development deficit policy, and not on consumption, to create foundations for the future. That that's what black government charts say in 1995 to 2000, the gray coalition government. What's visible here? These two things are similar to personal and investment spending. Investment is growing something with the government of the coalition, but this one is very different. Strong growth and a strong impact of public spending during HDZ governments and a strong decline in public spending during the coalition government. That's the difference. He once asked me, "Minister Shuker, where's the money?" Well, in that, gentlemen. Re-employing along and across, red tape is growing again by the grandmothers and uncles and we're cutting down the gentlemen's development. That's the difference between our governments. And unfortunately, in three years, we'll be where we were in 2000 and there'll be a bloody development business before us again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22699	Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the respected representative Željko Nenadić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22700	Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues! The esteemed colleague Cacic made an incorrect assumption that the Croatian National Bank had calculated the debt on the occasion of the Croatian government and incorrectly, however, I would have called for a letter from the Croatian National Bank since 16 September and read only one sentence. It says according to a modified accounting principle that includes the total unpaid and unsecured liabilities of the basic budget deficit of the general government in 2003, according to data from the Ministry of Finance, is 12.2 billion kuna or 6.3% of the value of GDP. Signed by Governor Dr. Zeljko Rohatinski and that's true.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22701	Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, respected representative of the Mato Church.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22702	Article 214(4) point (b) of the fourth subparagraph. This is where it was corrected and talked about something that Cacic didn't talk about. The text sent by the Croatian National Bank has nothing to do with the findings of Mr Cacic. Please, it's a violation of the Rules of Procedure, and otherwise, I call on the College to correct the allegations that you have no need to violate the Rules of Procedure like this. Give a replica so that a man may answer you, what you fear.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22703	A fellow Churchman, this fraction of the four you have called on, says the representative is told if he reports a breach of the Rules of Procedure or a correction of an incorrect quote, and starts talking about another subject he has not received. It's a fraction of four. Katarina Fuček, correction of an incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22704	I would like to correct Mr. Cacic's incorrect allegations that, by projectioning the development rate described in this memo, the government has ordered to stop economic growth. I must compare that the rate of growth of the former government or coalition was unrealistic. This rate is a real development rate and the previous one stemmed from debt, increased personal consumption and state investments which also followed from debt. When the CNB intervened and, according to these results, it means in this credit policy towards banks and responsibilities and when these results began to stop personal consumption, you had a halt in 2003 to 4.3% compared to 2002 when this was expansion. I think that's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22705	Thank you very much. The next correction, the respected representative Emil Tomljanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22706	Mr. President, I will try to be brief and precise. Dear Representative Cacic said the government's goal is to stop the country's economic growth. That's what we've all heard and he's still saying it's in these documents. Neither is the government's goal of stopping the country's economic growth nor is it written in these documents. The documents say a lot and Mr. Cacic interprets how he likes it and of course I will discuss the details in the context of the individual debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22707	Next correction, respected representative Krunoslav Markovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22708	Mr. President, here's a series of incorrect allegations about the work of today's government another incorrect and ex-government, which is that the former government has managed to start the economy. Mr. Chacic... His party here was the first to introduce a severance fee for former party members felt by Mr. Sagar first. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22709	Jure Bitunjac corrects the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22710	Thank you, sir... was 5.9%. [[The speaker is off, you can't hear it.]] I think Mr. Cacic is trying to introduce this art into the financial accounting business and accounting and recording of income and expenditures one news, so I think that Mr. Minister this originality of his will be taken into account when changing and supplementing when it comes to accounting records. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22711	Minister Shuker, go ahead!
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22712	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'm sorry there's no Mr. Chacic to show him my diagrams, but you can see here that the public debt has been booming for four years. But it's very interesting about this deficit. One elemental question arises as to why the government passed in addition to the seventh month of 2003 request that the entire fiscal report should be on a modified accounting basis instead of in cash and today, when the modified accounting base shows a deficit of 6.3%, this is being challenged. What was the goal of practically half the year and half the stand-by arrangement changing the model for calculating deficits? What was the point of that? And then six months after that, when you're doing a calculation by that modified method, then you say that's not it. So when the governor of the Croatian National Bank sends a supplemental report that according to a modified method, the deficit is 6.3%, he now says again that it is not true. When representatives of the International Monetary Fund say they cannot conclude the past stand by arrangement, it is said again that it is not true. So the truth is just what I say and there's nothing else. And as for the government's vision of Mr. Cacic, I would remind again of this famous addition to the 7th month memorandum of 2003 where the Government of the Republic of Croatia decided to cut capital expenditures from 12 billion to 12 billion and 70 million because it believes that certain works due to the long and bad winter will not be carried out in road construction. But look at the documents that are very interesting. The same member of the Government is the chairman of the Supervisory Board of the Croatian highways and on 3 November he makes a decision on the rebalancing of the business of the Croatian highways. amending the income and expenditure plan, where total expenditures are increased by a billion and 766 million. So if in the seventh month we cut expenditures by 700 million after three months we increase them by a billion and 700 million. Which is a construction operation that can do wonders in those two months without anyone from the government seeing that happen. And good if Col. Cacic has already missed this to see then it is very interesting that the government, regardless of this decision, makes it in December 18th, so fat after the election of decisions on granting consent to the Croatian highways for this increase of a billion and 700 million. However, the supervisory board's decision has something else, it is said that the total expenditure of a billion 120m will be paid from the 2004 budget. There's the problem. If you'd paid for it in 2003, we'd have a billion and 100 million more to invest in highways this year. This is how we had to cover your loss. The second thing, when they talk about Croatian railways, the truth is that Croatian railways are in short-term debt, the truth is that the Croatian railways' atom was registered through their business books, it was true that it had an impact on the calculation of the growth of gross domestic product. But it is also true that it is not registered in the budget of the Republic of Croatia. which aims to reduce the deficit by one billion and 500. With no other purpose. Because by 2001, such expenditures of Croatian railways were recorded neatly in the budget. And as for Vartex, private non-acceptable semi-primary and private companies, it's very interesting to talk exclusively about the guarantee here. If the company has all the market criteria, then it is not a problem for him to get a loan. If we are going to talk about the social criteria for Vartex guarantee, then this government will not be socially insensitive because we are also aware of the importance of Vartex for that area. So let's figure out what social criteria are, which are market criteria. And let's also talk once and for all about voting our firm's guarantee for preparing a tourist season that does not even deal with apro pro tourism. Yeah, so the IMF's position on the arrangement. It is very interesting that a very flexible arrangement of this government wants to be seen as something blasphemous, as it will ruin the Croatian economy, as something that will bring a beggar stick to Croatian citizens. And when it came to working legislation, when it was defined which rights must be abolished by Croatian workers, when it was said that in 2001 Christmas, regression, and gift for children, it was not a blow to the social and impact on Croatian citizenship. And that's all in the past memoirs. And something similar in this memo doesn't exist. The specified sizes in this memo are 4.5% deficit and the specified size is 77% grossed by euro-measured domestic product. But very interestingly, this 4.5% deficit government will not be able to do anything in 2004 and the past government has said that with a 4.5% deficit it can do wonders. It best says how we talk about facts and how we look at things.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22713	On behalf of the Klub of the Croatian Democratic Community, respected Vice-President Luka Bebic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22714	Pleased Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, I was pleasantly conveyed by the atmosphere when Mr. Cacic spoke about morality and ethics here earlier. I am truly pleased with the meaning of better times ahead, and in fact that more and more will dwell on morals and ethics in our society. Because it was announced by Mr. Chachi. It's very serious and I welcome him in this regard to his intention. Mr. Cacic also vigorously ordered the international monetary fund our playground is our condition, if you do not accept goodbye. Maybe he could have said that when he was in the government that he said it wouldn't have hurt our head right now whether it was 7 billion overruns or not. He also claimed here a little while ago that there was no, it's not a word about it being 6.3 overruns, it's 5.1- So 3.1 billion kuna went missing. And we need to look for that money to find where that money is. Because the government says he's got 22 billion this year. So it is necessary to reduce the government's obligations for that amount, which means it is not owed to him. And it'll make it easier for the government if it's found out that it's not true, that it's going to pay that kind of billions, so it's going to be less. And it can make us happy if it's true. I don't know if the audience is involved, in a confusion of delusion. Because he sat here as you heard in this debate so far using the same arguments to prove one thesis, and then the same arguments to prove the opposite the thesis. So we need to figure out these arguments and see what the argument means and what that argument supports and what it challenges. And how are we going to know how to make money? When I last spoke when it was proposed to form a committee for Vicotor Lenac then I suggested to this committee fda nothing else actually works, not anything else, but to make their main thing a journey of money. Where the money came from, where it was spent, how much it was spent and who spent it. And for what purpose he spent it. So, follow the money, nothing else, so the money that travels will tell you where it ended. And then that money will show if it's 5.1 or 6.3. I would be happy if it were 5.1 and in the end we weren't in debt of 3 billion and 100 million, as the government claims. than we owe less. So, I'm not saying anything here right now I'm just suggesting an investigation detailing how and where the money travels. To demystify the demagogue witnesses was isolated by any other. So we're going to find out if one part of that money might have ended up maybe don't give God up in some private pockets. Here, Mr Tadic said on behalf of the HSPa Club that the International Monetary Fund has different systems of cooperation, from those of the heavy, milder and how they are. And he claimed that there was no difference between the goats of the metric differences between the stand by the arrangements signed by the former government and the one now signed by this government. I do not think that these cosmetic differences are, though, these stand by arrangement is greatly tempered by what is seen from indicators that are presented here to MPs. If it's the same pact as Mr Tadic claims, which is why the debate. Which is why such anger when it's all the same, when nothing under God's love has happened. A new one. And a new one happened, and now I'm going to quote to you that when the first stand by arrangement was passed, the government will be willing to adopt a package of 11 laws that reduces social rights, rights of defenders, birth rights for children, health and pension insurance rights. Among them are the laws on... the state budget and the law on its budget, and the Law on privatisation, the Law on Defence, the Law on the Croatian National Bank and others. And it was all supposed to come along and actually settle for breaking 5.3 of the gross social product in 2001. We need to see how this arrangement has affected all these social elements that I've been talking about here. We were told here by the representatives of the SDP Club that this government has no development, no knowledge, no ability and is leaving the development project. These are Mr. Linic's claims, and Mr. Linic also said, "Let the government do it then, she is responsible because she will do or not do it." And then if the government is responsible, I don't know why we interrupt her after a few months to do what she announced. Why are we constantly planting on her, and why is the credibility of what the government is doing constantly questionable? Let her work. He says, it was here in one statement that the government was not allowed to sign. If the government changed to worse conditions that it had previously signed with the International Monetary Fund in 4.8.2003, how could it have done so without informing the Parliament before? Well, if it were better, she should have notified the Parliament, not if it was worse. When the Government, today's current current, spoke to the International Monetary Fund, it had to come from an existing arrangement, because it recognises the continuity of the government and acknowledges that we are a legal state and that we inherit what we inherited from others, from the former government, because the government is according to the International Monetary Fund, the Government of Croatia and that this government could ignore all those conditions that the former government signed and which gave its guarantees to the International Monetary Fund, overnight. And overnight. And then the government is currently negotiating with the International Monetary Fund, which was in some way deluded by saying that it remained at 4.6%, and as we later saw, that is 6.3%, then the question of what maneuvers could have been available, which maneuver could have been available to this government? The government did in the given circumstances what it could, and this after the clear positions on July 27th and 28th 2004, after which the director's body of the International Monetary Fund 4.8 confirmed the arrangement, in fact, when it entered into force and announced to the Croatian public. If we are going to talk about this, about the commitment made by this Croatian Parliament, that no arrangement with the International Monetary Fund can be negotiated without the Croatian Parliament's guidance, then the question is whether the Croatian Parliament's guide was in the summer of 2003, as it was not in 2004 in the summer. From all this, I plead and advocate that this government will receive support in this Croatian Parliament for its projects, programmes, for what it has concluded with this arrangement with the International Monetary Fund, and otherwise for the implementation of its economic and social policy and for us as a Croatian Parliament to support this policy. And that is why I propose, in the end, that the Croatian Parliament, after this debate, take note and support the government in its efforts, and no one is happy to dictate the terms of it, but also no one is happy, if they inherit something, so they claim that they did not inherit it, but that it is not so and that I return to what I particularly want to hear and to do so, to see where the money sailed, to whom it went, who spent it and in whose pockets it eventually ended. And then we'll finally know if that 7 billion was spent, or 3 or 2 or God forbid nothing was spent, so we could do more this year. If we do so, then it will be clear to the Croatian public where and how much has been spent and who has spent, and in the end that this government has no more mortgages from the past, but to implement its programme that has received the majority support of the Croatian Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22715	Thank you, correcting the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative of the Mato Church.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22716	Thank you, Mr. President. Debt, deficit, liabilities, transfer obligations, they're all very different terms from each other. Mr. Bebić has largely equated them, and these are very different things. Look, the electricity in the power from December you spent in January, and it's perfectly normal, so it's always normal, and that's how every government and transmission will do it, but now you're taking, for example, 2.3 billion dividends from last year left for development to settle certain costs and to pass on. You take the other funds that we left behind, if we included them in the budget, I say, the deficit would be below 4%. What are we talking about?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22717	Honourable representative Zvonimir Mršić, correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22718	Well, I'd like to correct the inaccuracies of my fellow Babyboys that the Parliament is intruding the government. The debate in the Parliament is not a distraction, but a commitment imposed by the Parliament of the Republic of Croatia to the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and the Government of the Republic of Croatia is likely to have an obligation to this Parliament, not only to the IMF.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22719	Comrade Mršić, the MP did not say that the parliament is obstructing the government at all. I don't know how you heard that. ... No, I don't. [[Everyone speaks out loud, you don't understand.]] On behalf of the HSU Club, the esteemed representative of Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22720	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Minister, honored gentlemen from the Croatian National Bank, colleagues and colleagues. First of all, I have to start with, he's not a colleague of Cacic's here, but I have to say that there's no physical possibility that in three years we could be where we were in 2000. I don't think we can even play with these kind of statements. ... Okay, but it can be literally understood by reducing some of the achievements that have been presented in today's debate. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Secondly, I would be happier to discuss today the mission and the vision, the objectives and the strategy of how to reach these goals, the Croatian Government, than to discuss one of the most expended materials that we have been given to discuss today. According to my previous experiences, this Memorandum has no significant difference in this Memorandum compared to many previous memos that have been pro-circulating and signed by the former Croatian Governments with the International Monetary Fund, or World Bank. I want to talk about this unburdened, not in a way that is what he has set up for whom in past periods, but I want to look back at the material that is the subject of the debate. So, to what it says here, what really bothers me and what's really right in this material. I must start by giving one general assessment that this material cannot be a Croatian government programme. It is unfortunately only a limiting part of the Croatian government's programme, whether present or former. These are the conditions we must in some way respect. And as such, I cannot accept it without one broad debate and consultation. Generally speaking, the content of the memo on economic and financial policy resembles the silk-cutting process with an axe, which means that the very sensitive problem is treated very roughly. And then we'll take it in a row. Point 2. The memorandum clearly perceived the deviations of systems and generators of increased public consumption as well as concluded that Croatia is exposed to major risks. Future uncontrollable debt crises, and those who know what a debt crisis is know that for the IMF and the World Bank, they are good debtors who are able to repay interest, not by touching the principal and generating a new debt. In addition, point 2 lacks a risk specification so that the proposed risk mitigation measures can be more qualitatively assessed. Point 3 of paragraph 2 of this text is an acceptable medium-term objective of modernising and reducing the role of the state. However, in further consideration of the content of the Memorandum, there is not a single chapter that speaks in favour of decentralisation of certain functions of the state. On the contrary, he speaks in the function of centralization. It is acceptable to approach in point 5 which speaks of the direct objective of reducing imbalances in the current balance of payments account and reducing relying on foreign borrowing. It's just that we're missing concrete measures. Point 8 is unfortunately referred to in its second section on the lack of a strategy to achieve the objective, i.e. define the strategy of the moment from situation to situation. And that's not exactly our professional approach. For the Croatian pensioner party, unacceptable views are given in point 12 which favour the service of foreign debt to the harm of national health levels, without serious analysis of the causality of Croatian health relations. In such a delicate social activity, the saying "target justifies the means" has no place. The attitudes highlighted in item 14. for the Croatian party of pensioners require answers to specific questions. What does the government consider tax systems? Are tax reliefs in the function of motivating citizens on savings, building, taking care of social security, age, illness, accident? In fact, incentives or not? We want a concrete answer. What goods that have a zero income tax rate affect the tax system. What does "low-income" support mean? Did we finally admit that we have employees of the poor and that we have to interventions of the state to deal with that problem, and we have them. What does that mean, a reduction in some tax rates? We publicly praise the content of points 15 and 16 in the function of reducing the total debt of the state. We are looking for a response from the government to the items in point 17. In which for the third time in the last 14 years, a restructuring of the shipyard is proposed. We ask if this is the third rehabilitation of shipbuilding and whether the other export activities of the Croatian economy are actually the hostages of shipbuilding? In Chapter b), monetary and exchange policy is lacking in answer to questions. How to compensate for the impact of an increase in oil prices on price stability on the small and the stability of the kuna course? Whether the state intends to capitalise on a single domestic bank, become a majority owner and thus be in the function of the stability of the financial market and the conditions governing it, with the aim of developing the economy and preventing capital exports. Therefore, to obtain banks, i.e. in the function of reinvesting capital in Croatia. For Croatia, the pensioner's party is completely unacceptable to the content of point 25, which defines and prejudges something that should have happened by July 15th and has not happened, and this is a change of formula with the harmonisation of pensions. If we want and want to develop Croatia, it is possible in terms of social peace. Then Croatia, rather than the IMF, must determine the social anchors of the pension system and social contributions. To be precise, it must set a limit below which it cannot be, and that must be a consensus, so we parliamentary representatives must by consensus define a political platform against poverty in Croatia. We don't need a supervisor who's in the capacity to protect the interests of capital. It is unacceptable for the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank to determine solutions and give the green light for the implementation of the Croatian pensioners' compensation project. It is our internal matter and the wisdom of Croatia at this time should be to prepare as many social shockers as possible and focus on creating social cohesion. If you're watching, a great France today affirms the creation of social cohesion, and where we're going. And that the social wealth referred to in point 25, therefore, that Croatia saves this wealth from rapid privatisation, which we read from the sale. So, respectfully, just a moment. Respecting all said Croatian party of pensioners gives a kind of yellow card, i.e. a warning to the Government because of errors in steps and because this matter is not discussed, therefore, for principled reasons. But this does not mean that we amnesty and the past government for excessive clientism towards the International Monetary Fund especially in the function of reducing labour and pension rights. The Croatian party of pensioners will accept this report, however, according to any conclusion will be restrained, and we know what is ahead. We are facing a further fight as foreigners and in this Parliament in any function to protect the rights of pensioners and workers.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22721	Thank you very much. We have two corrections to an incorrect quote. The first is Mr. Marin Jurjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22722	The incorrect quote of his colleagues, Hrelje, who said, quotes: "The signed Memorandum can not be a programme of the Croatian government but rather its restriction, etc.", because in this Chamber Deputy Prime Minister Andrija Hebrang said publicly, what we signed was not imposed by the International Monetary Fund, it is not their policy, it is the politics of the Croatian government, and so did fellow Sanader. So this is the Croatian government programme and that is what the leaders of the Croatian government said.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22723	Thank you very much. Correction of an incorrect quote, Mr. Representative Davorko Vidovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22724	A completely incorrect quote by his colleagues, Hrelje, was expressed at the end of his presentation that the past government has reduced labour and pension rights. The latest amendments to the Labour and Labour Reform Act in Croatia have added about 50 new protection institutes for Croatian workers and their position has been improved in this regard. On the other hand, pension rights have increased by 47% in 4 years compared to 99% and if this were compared to 4% of pension growth this year this year, it would take the government three mandates or 12 years to secure it.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22725	Thank you very much. Now we're moving on to a ten-minute hearing. She is the first female representative, Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22726	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Minister, representatives of the Croatian National Bank, colleagues and colleagues. What has happened in Croatia in the last nine months, why the population of the early high expectations that followed whether it was of course and the corresponding enthusiasm of the increasing West in apathy. Here this morning we discussed the welfare of animals, what the Government has concluded one such arrangement to assume is that it is about the well-being of Croatian citizens. But that's the way it is. While our citizens were resting under the colovan sun swept by false Croatian optimism beyond their knowledge without their will and necessary consent, the government unauthorizedly signed an arrangement with the International Monetary Fund. And that's something that's wrong to witness almost and extorted debate by the SDP Club to talk about this publicly, even if it's here at night without television coverage, because we're not even interested in so much television transmission, the truth simply can't be hidden. And the government wants to hide, conceal, ease it as simple as being ashamed of it but ashamed of something that has been done wrong may not be a bad quality. So, he wants to because, in some ways, he wants to cover up what she's prepared for us, by agreement. And you, Mr. Minister, are left here by the government tonight alone to discuss before this House and explain what you signed there, it is already clear, we already know from these body languages how the Croatian government behaves to do anything, you know that well, then we would discuss it in the morning. And you wouldn't talk about it, Mr. Minister, Mr. Prime Minister would talk about it. You, Mr. Minister, have, in the year of Mr. 2000, spoken in the Croatian Parliament: Why does this arrangement with the International Monetary Fund not care what our salaries will be, how the state administration will function, how all this will affect the budget of the units of local self-government, which you have prepared for us from the reduction of VAT has nothing to do with it. The question of our country's security is also being asked, we're making a decision here says, you're criticizing the former government, the country's security is being compromised, we're being dictated by someone else, they've been conducting us in 91s, and then we're conducting it, and it's showing how we ended up, or how we should have ended up, they're giving us even what our salaries are going to be, we don't have any quality experts, and we won't get it if we cut our salaries in the state administration. He is unable to implement certain measures, you say the government and we don't need a tutor from above, you mean the International Monetary Fund, and your colleague from HDZ was much more plastic, so then he insulted the gentleman... when he literally told a man of very handsome mustaches such as in these areas in Zagreb have not yet been seen since the time of the Ilir Revival, he can simply see his feet open the doors of the cabinets of our ministers, our monetary and executive authorities. Experiences show mainly in the last 10 years that those governments, and this government is meant by the coalition government to praise the mission of the International Monetary Fund and says your HDZ colleague and all the governments that praise the International Monetary Fund are losing the election and that's where I fully agree with it and I think you'll agree. You see, really, the government did do it irresponsiblely she was supposed to inform the parliament and then vote with the majority's will, I mean, you don't have that kind of trouble already, even though some of the signs in that direction are going, and then caution is never enough. However, in the end, it is not surprising because responsibility goes hand in hand with its ability. Here I can fully conform to the words he said on behalf of the Club, our colleague Linic. There is no doubt that this agreement is too narrow for the domestic economy and that it really takes so much for the Croatian, or development so much for Croatia, which means that unemployment, not that it will not be reduced but will grow, that the health standard is already worse today, and tomorrow it will be even worse and it will be almost no longer talk about strengthening legal certainty. Simply this has become a deaf time for citizens' problems for the average man's problems that you don't want to discuss publicly in broad daylight, but this night secretly. The government ignores major Croatian economic problems and deals with non-living issues, then it is not surprising that life in Croatia is increasingly on the descending path rather than on the upward path. And of course the government doesn't have its own economic policy and we've been saying it from the very beginning then it's no wonder that you're as fast as we've had to hear, I guess in one school hour you managed to conclude, or the IMF managed to conclude this arrangement with you. So, at the moment the 2005 budget is being prepared, the government has to face itself, I think it's high time to deal with huge political, social and economic challenges. So, at that time when we can really say that although it is autumn but I don't mean these clouds over Croatia, the weather is then, the sky is redressed and after 11 years as the media re-announces, they say they are worried that after 11 years, the bauk of inflation can be restarted or that Croatia is already threatened by the bauk of inflation. Once the price of gasoline has drawn dangerously close to the amount of 8 kuna per litre, it seems as one medium has announced that only the sky will be the limit. However, it is already quite clear that in Croatia the increase in fuel prices will have a multiplier effect and lead to a chain reaction i.e. to the total increase in all goods and services, which ultimately leads to a decline in the standard of living of citizens, raises the possibility of paying out citizens' loans to banks and leads undoubtedly to personal tragedies, personal bankruptcy, so citizens are already living worse today, and tomorrow they will live by what you have packed even worse for them. So the citizens and the whole of Croatia, as has already been said here, and that is ultimately a media quote, pushing into a debt crisis. In a crisis in which Croatia, after 2000, also with the denial of citizens but also with the force of the coalition authorities, managed somehow as much as to accumulate. The announced reduction of tax reliefs on income tax, up to 12,000 kuna for household costs, is announced to be abolished, you announce the abolished benefits for solving the housing problem, for the cost of treatment. Cutbacks on profit tax. And what does that mean? Directly means burdening the economy. And these are investment reliefs today. Tax breaks for new employees. Advantage of zero bread and milk rates announced. Of course, it's for the people. Then you're still preparing for them to be introduced by the financial police. Instead of strengthening tax administrations, tax offices, because it is naive to expect you to increase your payment with the Financial Police. It's just the cost of a new institution, and as we saw how the Financial Police worked, it was just for the chosen ones, i.e. for the authorities of the unscathed. Literally, here you are not to say, or to think that it can be what I interpret, here you have signed, you need to focus on the mass of wages, and reducing the social care of subsidies, there is no real increase in the mass of wages, highway construction should be on reasonable measures, reduction of the legal limit for the borrowing of local self-government. Reduce the number of prescriptions by a doctor who refunds HZZO. Costs of medicines to comply with costs, i.e. medicines abroad, etc. And who else remembers your, or the Prime Minister's guarantee card? No one believes in these guarantees anymore. The Hague doesn't trust you. And the citizens have long since thrown themselves away as a worthless currency.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22727	... We have one, two, three, four, five corrections, one replica. [[speaks later turned on, can't be heard]] Well, let's take it in a row. The first is to correct the incorrect allegations Mr Emil Tomljanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22728	Mr. Vice President, I would only correct one in a series of incorrect allegations, I'm sorry that Mrs. Prosecution came out. But she said this government unauthorizedly signed this arrangement, agreement or contract. That's not true. This Government has authorised it to be signed under the authority of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which has also been developed by the Government Act and the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia in Article 112. If the representative was referring to the content of the conclusions of the month March 2003, it requires a lengthy evaluation that I will dedicate my presentation to an independent exhibition in the debate. Secondly, the fuel price itself or the increase in fuel prices in terms of rising barrel prices, oil on the world market has absolutely nothing to do with the topic we are discussing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22729	Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect alleged Mr. Representative Franjo Arabovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22730	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, I can't correct it because the present lady is not here, because they have such tactics to say, say it quickly, and leave the session, so it means how much they appreciate this house and us fellow MPs who are not in their party or are not attached to them. But I'd say one thing is that it's not true that the debate takes place in the night and mysteriously. We started in the afternoon, we're not yet in the night, and it's not secretive because HRT Plus is transferring this session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22731	Mr. Representative Stjepan Bačić, correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22732	I would correct the inaccuracies of a fellow MP who said that this government is introducing a state into a debt crisis. That's completely incorrect, this government is just trying to stop it with its own measures. And the former government led us into a debt crisis.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22733	That's the same opinion. The lady thinks this government, she has a right to think so. Mr. Representative Jandrokovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22734	... in this terrible and cruel crisis of government policy, I would correct the incorrect assumption that this government is pushing the Republic of Croatia into a debt crisis. [[speaks later turned on, can't be heard]] On the contrary, the former government of Prime Minister Racan has increased the debt by $15 billion, and this government is the debt and it is the borrowing process that seeks to stop it.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22735	It is also not a correction of the incorrect assumption, but of the opinions, which the representative is entitled to, so it is not corrected in any other case. And Mr. Representative Josip Djakic, correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22736	Mr. Vice President, I would like to correct Mrs. Antičević's incorrect quote in which she claimed that the guarantee card is no longer worth anything and that who remembers her at all. I will only point out that the Croatian government's short-term programme sets out in this arrangement to introduce order into public finances the same as it says in the guarantee card under the economic programme.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22737	Thank you very much. Replicu was represented by Niko Rebic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22738	Thank you. Actually, I'd say that this debate of Mrs. Anticevic actually best says why this point is on the agenda, she's talking, so, oh, that they're not even up to the arguments, here I have one and the other stand by the arrangement. And what we've heard from oil collection to wages, I mean pears, apples, which Mrs. Anticevic didn't pick up. So, uh, but the truth is that this stand by the arrangement that this government signed is certainly better than the one signed by the former government. It's just out of the mind that someone who listens to this debate can believe that, because this government didn't sign anything that she didn't actually have in her program. She had in her program a reduction of deficits, therefore a limitation of debt, public spending, so nothing is in this, and what she was forced to do is, therefore, remain in the inherited unfinished liabilities of the former government. And it's simply a health-smart fight to say that by reducing the deficit to 4.6%, there would be no development, and you would be a terrible development with 4.5% social, by reducing deficits. So if this debate continues like this, it will not bring any good, so this debate will only deepen the gap between us. So, I would suggest not to do political, but there's no public and let's all get caught up in getting lessons out of this and, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22739	Thank you very much. Time's up. On behalf of the Government Minister of Finance, Mr. Ivan Shuker, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22740	Thank you very much, I'm sorry he doesn't have a distinguished representative, Anticevic. I have to answer some questions, since she quoted my debate from 2000, and then I have to quote the 9th-month supplement, which says that a 10% reduction in wages will be foreseen in the state budget for 2005 and that, in practice, it is indicated how much funds will be reduced per quarter, and further says, to complete the government's strategy in order to carry out a 10% reduction in the wage mass in 2001, as regulated in Article 53. Budgetary law. To announce that public services and civil servants and tenants will not pay the regress for vacations, Santas and gifts, I would debate today in the same way that this stands in stand by arrangement. Very simple and clear. Another thing about the time of debate. We were having a discussion about the stand by the arrangement and then it got the same sort of discussion at the same time, and like this it was kind of a debate, so then probably people are used to this time of debate. Well, that's how it works. The price of gasoline. A fellow Linic criticised this government for not having the courage to raise the cost of excise duties by 30 June. Dear Representative Anticevic criticises the government that the price of gasoline is so high and so high, however, it should be said for the sake of the Croatian public that nothing practically goes into the state budget from that price. The excise duties are something that's fixed. So, government policy, the past government made a decision on free price formation. Therefore,... Mr. Linic, you've had four years to talk about politics, the results of your policy, and another thing I've never thrown out of your bench when you were talking. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] And as for the security factor in the last stand bay arrangement, it exactly writes that starting with the release of 5,000 defence employees in the first quarter, the government intends to reduce the number of defence ministry employees by 12,000. It all stands in stand by arrangement, but it was here today and tax relief. It is very interesting that those who have not even seen the bill and are afraid to remove any tax reliefs that have had a social criterion, but I repeat these reliefs unfortunately did not benefit those to whom they were intended. I'm responsible for that. They were not used by those to whom they were intended; they were used by those who had great incomes. You've given the possibility to those who have large incomes that 48 thousand kunas reduce their tax returns. This is true and these are the results of the publication of tax returns, these are the results. So, I didn't say the intention was bad, but apparently that social moment was taken advantage of by those who have large incomes. And so, another thing to say is that the government will do something else when the Uzi cabinet hasn't even discussed changing the Income Tax Act yet. Then how can someone say something's gonna end? It says. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] It says a lot of things. Where does it say? It doesn't say. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] It is very interesting that you did not have the courage when Croatia received a positive AVIS to criticise their opinion on the tax policy of the Republic of Croatia. It is very interesting to talk there about removing a zero VAT rate, but then there was no courage to say that Europeans do not understand what it is about VAT, what is happening in Croatia and whether this zero rate is harmful or good. So this provision around the zero VAT rate was just transferred from AVIS to the memorandum, nothing else. Now, very interestingly, we are working at this moment on a pre-accession economic programme. So are we going to do this program countering what AVIS says about Croatia and then enter Europe in this way? Very interesting. Financial police are loud and clear. Financial police are afraid of those who are disturbed by order in the country. You transferred excise duties to the customs office and you transferred three trained employees who knew about excise duties two years ago. You've never formed a control for excise duties in the customs administration. Expenses are collected 8.5 billion kunas in Croatia. I don't mind that at the time the IRS was abolished that education was done and that they were educated people in tax supervision who would replace the IRS and who would exercise that control. Then I'd say all the honors but the thing is that nothing was done, although many people have been replaced, the results of tax oversight and tax supervision plus the financial police are 40% of those joint controls. But I think it's better that this House never finds out what the former secretary of the Ministry of Finance did and by what criteria she employed people. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22741	Thank you very much. Come in, you will get all the words as you will now, for correcting the incorrect quote, please, please, Mr. Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22742	The minister said he would comment today negatively on any wage cuts. There is no debate over the past ten months that Minister Schucker is constantly negatively commenting on the social partners' agreement at the end of last year. Therefore, he denied his statement so as not to negatively comment on salary hikes.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22743	Correction of the incorrect allegations by Mrs. Dragica Zgrebec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22744	It is incorrect that tax exemptions on income are for the rich, according to Minister Shuker. It's obviously a question of his perception, wealth and poverty. For me, they're not rich people who buy an apartment on a loan, who pay for subsistence, who buy medicine to be treated. It is obvious that for Mr. Minister, poverty and poverty are only those who are social cases. We must not deal with such a definition of poverty in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22745	Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect quote Mr. Vice President Mato Arlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22746	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues! Minister Shuker said it is possible to see, on the basis of AVIS, that the European Union advocates the abolition of zero tax rates on additional value. I would like to correct this quote because it is not accurate or at least not entirely accurate. The European Union Guidelines on the harmonisation of VAT rates found that at a general rate, members of the European Union can use one or more reduced rates which Croatia does not use, that the lowest rate cannot be less than 15% and that zero rates can continue to be used by those Member States that had it installed in their tax systems before the beginning of 1991. The Republic of Croatia had built-in zero rates in its tax system before 1991, although not then on a tax on additional value but on a tax on the sales of products and services, which was then called the tax law which made up the tax system as well as on many other European Union countries, and in this respect it is a matter of negotiating how to deal with this issue and not unilaterally accept this solution.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22747	Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect allegations Mr. Representative Mato Churchvenac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22748	When the Financial Police were abolished, it was done a lot at that moment, not that nothing was done. In fact, in his business, the financial police are clashing with supervisors or tax inspectors. She did what tax inspectors did and it's completely irrational and it won't be rational again. In Europe, only one country has financial police and this is for special reasons and all others have tax inspections that solve tax offences. Also, many people are employed, and young people are even very qualified to strengthen the tax administration during the tax control phase of inspections. There are data on how much increased revenues were made by the activity of this tax supervision after the tax administration took all this together. That's why it's not good to say that nothing was done. You should keep working on it, but it's done a lot.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22749	Same correction of opinion, but well, let's move on. Now it's Mr. Representative Nenad Stazic's turn.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22750	What's going on here today? About two things. First on how the Croatian government signed a new stand by arrangement with the IMF and second on the government's economic and financial policy. About the first one. The government therefore signed the stand by arrangement with the IMF, although it was explicitly forbidden by the Croatian Parliament to do so. To impose such a ban, the HDZ insisted. Today, however, the HDZ and the HDZ government are of course fucked by the parliament's position. By his conduct this government insults the Parliament, it is clear to all but this Parliament has not enthroned itself here. He has been elected here by the Croatian people, from the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, to represent them, so by such demeaning the HDZ Assembly, he shows that he does not respect either the Croatian people or the constructions that this Assembly has chosen. That's the first one. And what else is being talked about here is the economic and financial policies of this government. Does this government have it? If it exists at all, then it is contained in this document that we are discussing here today and it is called the Memorandum of Economic and Financial Policy. It was signed on July 13th this year as a result of negotiations with the IMF. So first the negotiations and then the memo. Mr. Ivo Sanader's government has not therefore drawn up its own program. She came here before the Croatian Parliament received the support of the parliamentary majority, her certainly parliamentary majority, and then, with the programme with clear goals, she went before the IMF to the painful and difficult negotiations. Efforts to prove Mr.doin From the IMF that this programme is good, that it is feasible that it is useful for the Republic of Croatia and for its construction. Not the other way around. Contrary to that. In secret, obediently, without discussion, without objection everything the IMF requires is accepted. A government that listens blindly to everything that's being told from the world. It's a picture of this Croatian government. From who he can't go to coalition with and put together a government to co-operate with The Hague and the IMF. And all because the HDZ would crush that democratic world with such an anti-pathic image of that ominous ethics of a rigid, extreme, nationalist, xenophobic party that has been insinuating for a decade. The HDZ is therefore in the transition process and in this transition it is co-operating with the world. And he seeks to be kind and obedient. How do you ask him to do that? And that's good. It's good for HDZ it's good for Mr. Ivo Sanader. But how good it is for Croatian citizens, what price they will have to pay because HDZ is so good and obedient. What's waiting for them. Well, what's waiting for them is exactly in this memo. This is where the 11th indent 4 says how you plan to limit the number of prescriptions by a doctor who refunds HZZO. Well, you know who spends the most of those recipes. They're older people, they're the sickest, logically they need the most medicine. And the drugs are given on the recpet. Well, they don't take drugs because they like to take medicines. It's because they need those drugs. But they need exactly as much as they need. And what to do now, old people, when you spend what you wrote and what you wrote, when you reduce the number of prescriptions a doctor may issue. They only have two exits, either to die, or to pay for their own medicine if they can pay for it. If they have something to pay from, if they have enough money to pay them. That's how you intend to give birth to Croatia. In paragraph 12, it says, unless the health measures achieve the objectives set out, we will increase participation for medical services and medicines and reduce the number of exemptions from participation. So right at the very beginning, you suspect that some of them will be able to achieve their goals in health care, and you will immediately announce what will come next. And there will be an increase in participation for medical services and medicines, an increase. You know who pays for those participations? They pay sick people, so do you have to save on sick people? Save on the healthy if you have to save rather than the sick. The next is that you will reduce the number of exemptions from participations you wrote. And what that means is that those same old people who are also the sickest will have to pay for not only the medications they need, but also medical services. Where'd they get the money for that, from where? Is this the legacy of your pre-election slogan we should start Croatia. You'd think you were planning to raise your pensions. So they can pay for it. So the pensioners have enough money for these drugs and medical services. When those participations are lifted. Not the other way around. You write in paragraph 24 how you plan to change the formula for inexplication of pensions, and so that the increase in pensions is linked to the change in the average real salary in the economy. Look, pensions are now being followed by a nominal salary increase, and you say no, they will no longer be followed by nominal, but by a real salary increase. And in point 11, they wrote that there's no real salary increase. That's what it says in point 11. So you're going to raise your pensions with a real salary increase that won't be there. That's what you wrote about him being gone. They wrote you that, and you're going to harmonize pensions with the increase that won't be. And then what's going to be, what's going to be, it's going to be that there's not going to be a raise or a pension. Let's start Croatia. Here in this document that we are discussing today under point 14. it says how you plan to reduce the number of goods that are subject to the zero VAT rate. Well, er, you know what kind of goods they are. There's not much, there's not much, there's only 5 among them are bread and milk. When you stop that zero VAT rate, the bread and milk collect not less than 18 and a half percent at the same time. It won't hit the rich, which you'll find out less about. That hits the poorest they'll pay the price. Besides, it's kind of hard on them. It's not easy for them. So how difficult it will be for them when you start Croatia by increasing the price of bread and milk. There's more piantiries in this agreement, but they'll be discussed by my colleagues in their individual debates. The fact remains that all this has been carefully hidden from the eyes of the public. The Croatian Parliament did not discuss the memo and probably not. If our club SDP club hadn't put that item on the agenda. Now, see why, because of the bread and milk for the poor, because of the elderly because of the sick, because of all those who will pay dearly for HDZ this return to power. I am convinced that the citizens of Croatia will not forget that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22751	Thank you very much. We have several corrections of incorrect allegations. So we'll get there before that, then you are. Here's first Mr. Representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22752	I thank Mr. Vice President, although the whole speech is, and everyone states that Stazić is incorrect, everything he said is incorrect, he concentrates on those inaccuracies that I find interesting simply for the sake of the public I correct. First, counterpart Stazic said that in secret, the Croatian Democratic Community wanted to sign the agreement, that it was signed and that it remained secret and so on. Falsely, because it was published at Interent immediately after the signing, it was therefore available to all who wanted to read it. DRugo Croatian Democratic Community per Mr. Stazic has shown disrespect for the Croatian Parliament and the Croatian people. No, I don't. On the contrary. On the contrary, we have shown respect because this arrangement is simply more comparable than the one you signed. But you signed it in complete secrecy. And you did not respect the Parliament's decision that bound you to not respect the Parliament in July 2003, either. And when you talk about the transition HDFor then you really have no right to say it because you are the heir to a totalitarian party, Mr. Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22753	Thank you very much. It's been a while. Correction Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22754	Mr. Vice-President, I will correct the incorrect quote of my colleagues, Stazic, in which he claimed that the Croatian government is hiding from the Croatian people and the Assembly of the facts signed by the IMF. It is already true that the Croatian government is fighting a difficult battle to get Croatia out of the task of ai leading to the bankruptcy of Croatia that you, sirs and gentlemen have staged. The bankruptcy you've staged for this country's government must be resolved today. That's the exact quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22755	It's also an open mind. And I'm not gonna tolerate it anymore, but I'm gonna start with a heads-up on whoever's correcting it, and he hasn't fixed anything, so don't be surprised. From now on, I can't do it anymore, because this will end, rich in the morning. Correction of an incorrect quote, Mr. Jure Bitunac.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22756	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Speaking of medicines and health care, Mr. Stazic said, don't save on sick people, save on healthy, and I don't understand in what context he meant it, it's not a correction to an incorrect quote, because when it comes to health care and when it comes to medicines, it's impossible to save on healthy people. I think that's where we agree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22757	And that's borderline, because Mr. Stazic had the right to determine what he had determined. ... On behalf of the Government, Mr. Minister Ivan Shuker. [[Everyone speaks out loud, you don't understand.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22758	It's a shame we only read documents that fit us. However, it is very interesting to read the stand by arrangement that preceded this. Therefore, certain obligations that have been accepted, and among other things says that, he says, "although direct subsidies and shipyards have increased, the share of all subsidies in the gross domestic product has been increased, more than compensated for lower transfers for pensions and health care." It's very interesting that then you didn't take care of the sick and the old, fellow Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22759	Thank you very much. Let's move on with the debate. Ms. Representative Marija Lugaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22760	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Minister. We are here today discussing the economic policy of the government, the economic policy of the government which unfortunately has not been established here in the Croatian Parliament, because we MPs and MPs who have received in the elections the legitimacy and trust of Croatian citizens to decide on the standard of living, we learn about the economic policy of our state after the International Monetary Fund. Between discussing and establishing its economic policy here with us in the Croatian Parliament and with Croatian citizens or with the International Monetary Fund, the government of Ivo Sanader has chosen the IMF. I don't know what those reasons were for Prime Minister Sanader's Vladu hiding his own policy, his own economic policy. I can only guess about that. Could it be fear, might it be shame or ignorance? I don't know that, but I know that these discussions here in the Croatian Parliament today wouldn't have been if we'd waited for the government, but we're discussing on the basis of SDP's demands. We all know well that by the basis of the conclusion of the Croatian Parliament, which is that the matter is to be maximumly interesting brought right on the HDZ initiative, the government was obliged before the possible signing of a new stand by an arrangement with the IMF on its intentions to report to the Croatian Parliament, and the government, I repeat, on the basis of the request of the HDZ, before signing the arrangement, to conduct the debate in the Croatian Parliament. HDZ asked the authorities to do so when it was an opposition, and now that HDZ is in power, he has no idea how to implement his own conclusions. Indeed, the unseen consistency of HDZ policy. My colleagues and colleagues, this debate is not important because of the IMF, this debate obviously, given the delays we have been waiting for this debate, is not important for the Croatian government either, but this debate on the economic policy of the government is important for our citizens. Because our citizens at least need to know what awaits them, what the government is preparing for them. Mr. Minister, our citizens don't care what it was, but what it's going to be. We have heard so many times that the most problematic part of this government's economic policy is a low growth rate and a halt to investment. Of course, in its economic policy defined in this memorandum, the lack of economic growth does not call for those words. The government says I quote "reestablishing sustainable economic growth". During Racan's government, the average growth rate was 4.5%. For the government of Ivo Sanader, the result has already been achieved, the already achieved growth rate is unsustainable and is projected to reduce the growth rate to 3.5-3.75%. So HDZ's government is planning a growth of -1 compared to the one already achieved. For the government of Prime Minister Sanader, it is obviously impossible, they do not know at the same pace to continue development programmes in reconstruction, gasification, road construction, modernisation of rail transport, etc. Very interesting launch of Croatia, obviously backwards. At the same time, with a low growth rate and a halt in development, we have numerous promises, which are seen from budget logic, spending, promises to births, pensioners, defenders. We also had a VAT situation, first reduces VAT, so delay the VAT rate reduction, then suspend after suspension, and give up the VAT rate reduction, which, by the way, the IMF particularly commends the government. That's exactly what the HDZ has shown about VAT so far is unprecedented political consistency. The nation was promised a two-point VAT reduction ahead of the vote. That, we all know well, didn't happen. And HDZ thus deceived all those who gave their voice to HDZ because of that promise. But HDZ not only has not fulfilled its promise and has no intention of fulfilling it, but according to what is written in HDZ's economic policy, and this is much more concrete than what is promised, HDZ is preparing something that little anyone could possibly hope for, to abolish the 0th VAT rate for some of the products for which VAT is not even paid at all today. These products have exactly 5: all kinds of bread, all kinds of milk, textbooks for schoolboys and students, medicines and medical implants. These products will pick up 18.5% at the same time. It's a direct attack on the standards of the poorest people in this country. And that's why this debate isn't important because of the IMF, this debate is important because of the poorest people in this country that you obviously from the government hope out of ignorance, you're about to make this life even harder. Indeed the original way of starting Croatia. Unfortunately, it's not the only blow to our fellow citizens' standards. It's planned to cut tax breaks. What is the government of Eve Sanader planning to end? In the last term, we have introduced a number of tax reliefs aimed at facilitating the everyday life of citizens. Tax exemptions for the costs of health services and the purchase of orthopaedic aid have been introduced. The government of IVe Sanader, not only plans to limit the number of prescriptions per doctor, and increase participation, which will mean that citizens will have to pay for these health services themselves, the government is even planning to abolish tax reliefs for the costs of these same health services. Isn't that a hit on the most endangered standard? Old and sick. Our citizens must know that the economic policy of this government, defined in the Memorandum with the IMF, does not deal with any abstract, incomprehensible creatures, but rather sets out very concrete what the standard of living in Croatia will be in the future. For example, health care, the obvious fall of standards. For example, housing needs. The past government introduced tax reliefs for the purchase of apartment and house, investment in existing housing, and the payment of sub-inhabitation. These measures were intended for a direct goal, as well as for improving people’s housing opportunities. This was especially true for young people and young families who today have major problems in solving the housing issue and who are having a hard time alone from their parents and their primary families. Young families who first buy an apartment, now do not need to, based on a decision by the former government to pay real estate tax. This means, in particular, if you buy a garage smaller in Zagreb, which costs 50,000 EUR, you will not pay the state 2,500 EUR. To young families, it's a big help. For 2,500 EUR furniture can be bought, kitchens can be equipped, etc. The HDZ government plans to abolish this assistance to young families, but that is not all. Apartments are mostly bought on credit. The former government introduced tax reliefs to increase the non-taxable share of income by the amount of interest on housing loans. These aren't abstract things, which all of our fellow citizens who, during this year, have received tax returns this fall and summer. According to the HDZ policy defined in the Memorandum, the government plans to abolish these tax reliefs and writes so in this Memorandum. It will be a direct blow to living standards and young families. Such a policy, especially when it comes to young families, is particularly surprising if we know about the pledge and the government, especially the Vice-President of the Government for Demographic Reconstruction. This demographic restoration will be difficult if young families have no place to live. These aren't all my inventions, they're not my interpretations, that's all the government wrote nicely in the Memorandum. Because of what I said, because of what my colleagues and colleagues have said, which they will still say, because of the government's poor economic policy, because of stopping Croatia's development, because of the suspension of investment, and most importantly because of the destruction of Croatian citizens' standards, I cannot support such an economic policy that Croatia is moving backwards. And I'm quite certain that such a policy that breaks their standards doesn't support our fellow citizens either. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22761	Thank you very much. We have one correction and one replica. First correction to an incorrect quote, Mr. Marian Bekavac.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22762	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. A colleague, Lugaric, claimed that HDZ is starting Croatia backwards. Dear colleagues Lugaric, HDZ does not run Croatia backwards but must first patch up the black holes in the budget that you left so that it can run Croatia and raise the standard of Croatian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22763	It's not a correction to an incorrect quote. It's an opinion. Ma'am has the right to think HDZ is returning Croatia What she thinks wrong, that's her problem, but you don't have the right to make it right. ... [[Intruder: But wrong thoughts.]] Replica, Jure Bitunjac. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22764	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I would only like to see my colleague Lugaric mention economic growth when it comes to what the government drew for 2004, 2005. This government must have seen all the circumstances when it comes to the domestic economy and the position of Croatia when it comes to the world and European market. And therefore, if this plan is from 3.5% to 3.7%, it is real and you said it is less than 1% of the rate of economic growth achieved in the past year. But you must also bear in mind that, for economic growth, it has been achieved on the basis of debt, based on a targeted import economy over the past four years. And when it comes to investment that they primarily went to the public sector, and it wasn't about creating a de facto new product and exporting what would be a major qualitative shift in, when it comes to the economy. Therefore, the former government has achieved an economic growth of 4.5% based on an enormous debt, and that is the naked truth. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22765	Replication response, Mrs. Marija Lugaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22766	I'm glad, fellow Bitunjac, that you've come forward to clarify this because all the tamperings, all the attempts to explain can be denied by the National Bank's reports, but the government of Ivo Sanader is being denied on its own. Here is the proposal for a programme of government work that we received here in the Croatian Parliament when we voted, i.e. some of you voted for the government. So it says that the goal of achieving new economic development is possible, while maintaining a high rate of growth in the social product. Then you stood up for it when you stepped in to maintain what it was. Now you have to re-establish a new, smaller one that's more sustainable. You deny yourself, and this is clearly proof that you do not know what is going to be done, how it should be achieved and that there is no movement in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22767	Thank you very much. Let's move on. Madam Representative Dear Zgrebec, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22768	Mr. Vice-President, ministers, representatives of the Croatian National Bank, colleagues and colleagues. I do not at all dispute that today's government has the right to negotiate and sign the Memorandum and the "stand by" arrangement with the International Monetary Fund. It's her right, it's her responsibility. But when the minister is constantly returning to the previous memorandum signed by the previous government and attaching him to this Memorandum, then the following should be said. The last Memorandum was discussed in the Croatian Parliament, ahead of me was the conclusion of the 20th session held on 20 March 2002, which said in its first point that materials related to the "stand by" arrangement between the Republic of Croatia and the International Monetary Fund are being taken into account. That's all we want. That's all we wanted. To present its activities with the International Monetary Fund here in Parliament, to discuss this and that the majority who supports this government accept such such material, accept this Memorandum and then our citizens would know what awaits them. The previous Memorandum was treated as a precautionary measure. And this Memorandum is treated as a precaution. So there's no big difference in that. There's a difference and what we're criticizing is how this Memorandum happened. If it were more information, then it leads to difficult situations to motivate society as a whole, to motivate every citizen to help solve the problem. This way if we have problems and we hide them from our citizens, and they'll feel them on their skin sooner or later, then it's really not a good way to go. I don't believe the IMF put pressure on today's government. He didn't do it to the last government or do it to a future government. It's the definition of our Croatian government. That's what Minister Hebrang said. Although he once told us here in the Parliament that he wasn't always telling the truth. I believe him when he told him the IMF didn't put pressure on him and that these were the conditions and the government's programme. That this is the case, I am also assured of the letter sent to the Director-General of the International Monetary Fund, signed on the one hand by Minister Shuker, on the other hand by the Governor of the National Bank, saying in the first sentence, "We have prepared an economic policy programme for 2004 and 2005". Paragraph 2 reads: "The implementation of our programme described in the attached Memorandum of Economic and Financial Policy", etc., etc. So it is our Croatian government's programme. What were we looking for? We've been looking through this debate and we're looking through this debate to answer two questions. The first question is why did the government not respect the conclusion of the Parliament which says it undertakes to sign a new "stand by" agreement with the IMF before the agreement is signed with the IMF on its intentions to report to the Croatian Parliament and not sign the agreement in question before the debate is held in the Croatian Parliament? There is no answer to this question, but there is no reason why the government did not because it has the necessary majority to gain such consent. Obviously, there's something else in the background. And the second question we didn't get an answer is why didn't the government do it when the Parliament was sitting at the last session in the spring part of the session? Why didn't she initiate the debate, at least post-festum, at the first session, so, which began on September 15th? And why did it take a month from the SDP initiative that joins the HSP Club to do so? So, those answers are gone. The possible answer is that the government did not want or was afraid to say to the Croatian public that there will be no pay increases, that health rights will be reduced in a way that limits the number of recipes, that there may be an increase and participation in health care, that there may be no cuts in the exemption in participation, that it is possible to introduce increased excise duties which have actually been realised in the previous session of the Assembly, that it is possible to abolish tax reliefs, to abolish zero VAT rates, to give up the reduction of VAT rates, that this is very interesting for a large number of our citizens about the Pension Fund, which has been so important to discuss, but imagine a consultation of the IMF staff and the World Bank prior to the establishment and before the implementation of this Fund. So, I'd like, in the next few minutes that I've been told something about privatization that she's imagined in this government programme that's going to last almost to the end of this government's term. Namely, when Prime Minister Sanader presented his government and its programme, he said the government would prepare a new privatisation strategy and that its main goal was to increase efficiency and productivity. Reduce the role of the public sector in the economy, promote economic growth, reduce the cost of the state and achieve the main objectives of economic policy. Under the current circumstances, Sanader says the government considers the primary through privatisation to ensure the momentum of economic growth, and look at what it says in the Memorandum. In point 12, we are firmly committed to achieving the target deficit of 4.5% in 2004, and we are prepared to take additional measures if necessary, and all revenues from privatisation and succession are said to go into debt reduction, where there is economic momentum. In point 16, we will continue restructuring in the most important public enterprises, so we list Croatia's forests, Jadrolini to improve property management, reduce the number of employees, and ask again where the momentum is. And prepared these privatisation companies, it is said, we will set limits for the total borrowing of 8 large public enterprises in 2004 and the 5th year, which means that there are no investments in these companies, where there is economic momentum through restructuring and privatisation. Point 22 says DAB's bank accounts for privatisation, Croatian roads and Croatian highways will be eliminated. In point 25, the stakes will be privatised up to 25% of the state portfolio by the end of this year and the entire remaining portfolio by 6 months 2005. It says at least 15% of INA shares will be sold by the end of 2005. Croatia's privatisation plan will be developed by 6 months 2005, the third phase of HT privatisation will be implemented, the state will withdraw from Croatia's bank by the end of 6 months 2005 and the options for privatisation or for finding a strategic partner for Croatia's postal bank will be considered. Therefore, a real sale of the remaining state property was announced this time in the short term and why there is a risk that all the negative effects of privatisation of the 1990s will be repeated. I will give an example of HT, which after the majority package was taken over, so when it was privatised in the majority section and when several billion kunas of dividend were withdrawn from the state. It thus guarantees that it will not happen tomorrow at the INA the day after tomorrow in Croatia's insurance, the Post office, etc. Privatization revenues will be used to repay the debt once, will not go into development as President Sanader said in presenting his government and its programme. We do not know yet what the privatisation strategy is, whether it will be a model of public private ownership through the Skegrin Fund, whether it will be just a sale for one kuna or something else, that neither we in the Parliament nor the Croatian public know. These are reasons why we want to talk about it even after signing it when it is already a done deal and when most of it will anyway want to be heard and that the Croatian public knows about it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22769	Thank you very much. Correction of Mrs. Maria Byte's incorrect quote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22770	Thank you very much, Mr. President, I am correcting the incorrect quote of my colleague Zgrebec, who says the government will sell out state property in a short time. Namely, this is an incorrect allegation because according to a February 2003 stand by arrangement, the government is, as it writes, determined to sell all public companies and keep a minority stake in only some of them. The Croatian Privatisation Fund expects to reduce its pool portfolio from around 1100 companies by about one half by the end of 2003, then by the end of March 2003 and to 25% plus one share of HEP by 2003 division in private companies, privatisation of power plants possible by 2004. Then, the government plans to sell 30% of Croatia's insurance on the Zagreb Stock Exchange in 2003, etc. So it's an incorrect quote from a colleague. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22771	Thank you very much. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22772	Article 214 has been injured because I did not speak at all about the 2003 memorandum but I literally quoted the 2004 memo points and it really said that the final privatisation would take place by 6 months 2005.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22773	214 is about incursions and so on and not about that. Mr. Minister Ivan Shuker, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22774	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. It's very interesting how we judge identical things differently. So what we did was in the development function, it was in the state's progress function, it was in the function of transparency, it was in the function of this function in the function of that. And when a much lighter formulation for the same thing makes someone else then it's a grab, it's a sale, it's a setback etc., therefore, I'm going to have to quote again last stand by arrangement for the simple reason that these negotiations didn't start somewhere in the air but started based on something that was inherited. So, if you noticed in this stand by arrangement, there is no speech at all about how to sell the Post Office Bank, however, in some questions about how to sell the Post office Bank, to whom the letters of intent to the IFS should be sold. They were signed and it says exactly that on 10 June 2003 we sent a letter to the core capital of the Croatian Post Bank with strong veto rights, expecting with the IFS to sign an agreement on the entry of shares by the end of 2003. It's in the agreement, and now I'm not going to go into what was the motive of the last government, why she wrote it like that. It was an assessment of the last government that it should be done and that it's so good and I respect it. And I can't think of anything today that I've criticized this decision of the last government, but I've just tried to combine the same things that were in the past stand by arrangement with this stand by arrangement and I think that's how we talk about it so that it would be much easier and much simpler for all of us. I still repeat the basic problem was that we met at the 4th month, where the International Monetary Fund did not want to conclude the existing stand by arrangement. He wouldn't lock it up. Why didn't they want to lock him up? That's what my predecessors know. I can only talk about what I found. So, in the situation where the International Monetary Fund did not want to conclude the old stand by arrangement, we find ourselves in a situation where the European Commission decides on AVI for Croatia, and whether to continue negotiations or not to continue negotiations. But I say, the basic problem of all our discussions and all this together, but be assured tomorrow when we start negotiations with the European Union we will have to reach a consensus on some things. As much as anyone likes it or doesn't like it. It cannot happen that a representative from Croatia goes to the World Bank and informs that the World Bank has said that it has seen the budget. A budget that virtually no one has seen, because in this one, so should the World Bank deny the second day that they have not seen the budget and that the representatives of the Croatian Government have not submitted that budget? So let's not be our own greatest enemy. I only ask one question. Why wasn't the amendment to last year's memo that was in the 7th month discussed at the Parliament? It also has very important decisions on it, including this change in the methodology for calculating deficits. 99% of this stand by arrangement is discussed in the debates in the Parliament, among other things, and during the budget rebalancing is practically discussed all. Where is then the Prime Minister and I have made it clear that the budget rebalance is going due to a new stand by the arrangement. We, to tell you the truth, weren't sure until the end of the 7th month that the Board of the IMF would accept such a proposal for a memorandum. Why? Because he's extremely flexible compared to that old arrangement. We weren't sure because some false information was sent, guilty reports that it wouldn't squeeze our government tighter. It's clear and loud, honest and open. But to convince ourselves here that one government wanted to privatize something, and the other one had the same intention, and that was okay, this is not right now. One government with a 4.5% deficit could perform miracles, and another government with a 4.5% deficit leads the country to collapse. That's amazing stuff. These are amazing things, if you could have ended the year with a 4.5% deficit last year, I'm sure you would have finished it. But you couldn't finish. And God forbid you set a deficit for 2003 6.5%, there would probably be more money for development for you, but it would be a far bigger space for us in 2004 and 2005. But colleagues and colleagues understand one thing, a deficit of 4.5% since 2003 that was not such, but was much larger, is a deficit of 3.5% in 2004. Who in 2004 could perform a 3.5% deficit? Let's think that way. How to pay a billion and 100 million unpaid bills in highways, how to pay 700 million unpaid bills from Croatian Health care? How to cover those costs not recorded in the 2002 and 2003 budget for reconstruction? And this year, these loans come in for payment, and they have to be recorded as expenses. And put it all in a 3.5% deficit. And remember your budget projections. It has projected the 2005 budget to 3.5% of the deficit in 2004. So you could do wonders with 3.5%. And there's nothing we can do about 4.5. That's amazing. It's another thing. The question is, what would have been the growth in 2003 if it hadn't been for the excesses that were there? Loud and clear. Take away the influence of billions and 600 million and of the road, take away the influence of billions and a half in the Croatian railways that have been invested, which are registered, which are measured as such, and then see what would be the growth of the deficit. But very interestingly, we can't agree on elemental things. Bookkeeping gibberish doesn't come to this government's mind. Let Pe talk to whoever she wants.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22775	Thank you very much. We have two corrections to an incorrect quote. First Madam Representative, Dragica Zgrebec, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22776	I suppose this is the opening of what the minister was saying was about my exposure. Well, then I'm correcting, if I hadn't said at all what the government did, which was in the last memo, I didn't look back at it at all. I only looked back and made a comparison on President Sanader's government programme in the privatisation section at the beginning of the mandate and 7 months later as defined in the memorandum. And I agree that important issues for Croatia's future need to be reached by consensus, but in order for it to reach the necessary debate here in Parliament. So, only then can we reach a consensus if we discuss important issues here in Parliament and clear up all the problems we have.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22777	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect quote Mr. Representative Slavko Linic. Thank you. Correction of the incorrect alleged representative Dubravko Vidovic, please. Davorko Vidovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22778	Davorko, yes. In the last word, I'm replicating, or I'm trying to figure out what's going on here. - Oh, shit. - Oh, shit. No scrambling, Mr. Minister. If you have one argument and evidence of the mugging take it out here. You can't give a flat rate, you didn't come here to argue with us, for God's sake, so you're the minister in the Croatian government. So let's get this debate serious, or this whole thing doesn't make sense. You're no longer a representative to be able to talk to us like this. So what are we talking about, what is the subject of debate here? So all the time you're quoting us past stand by arrangement. We're talking about this, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22779	Davorko, yes. In the last word, I'm replicating, or I'm trying to figure out what's going on here. - Oh, shit. - Oh, shit. No scrambling, Mr. Minister. If you have one argument and evidence of the mugging take it out here. You can't give a flat rate, you didn't come here to argue with us, for God's sake, so you're the minister in the Croatian government. So let's get this debate serious, or this whole thing doesn't make sense. You're no longer a representative to be able to talk to us like this. So what are we talking about, what is the subject of debate here? So all the time you're quoting us past stand by arrangement. We're talking about this, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22780	So here are these little over three and a half hours of debate on the IMF agreement, and I think that thanks to your discussions, Mr. Minister has confirmed that the government has no economic policy to launch Croatia and that there is no solution to the current problems in this country. If you had talked about this memo, if you had stuck to the topic we're talking about today, if you'd said, if we had signed it and we thought things in Croatia could go that way and that way, we had a solution to these and those problems, I would indeed be pleased after this debate and I would think that we have a very capable and competent government that can solve our citizens' problems. Unfortunately, with this rhetoric that you are constantly returning to the affairs of the former government, on a memorandum signed a few years ago, you confirm that only this way you can address the Croatian public. Croatian citizens who gave their opinion in the elections on the work of the previous coalition government, who gave you the opportunity to put together the government and run the state, these citizens are not at all interested in the former government, it is a dog for them, they are not interested in the agreement with the IMF signed by Slavko Linic, it is for them, they are interested today whether their standard will be lower or not by 2006 thanks to the signed memorandum with the IMF that you signed, whether their standard will be lower or not. Whether they live better in this country or not. According to the fact that research is being done in public change, the citizens of this country already believe in a very high percentage that you are leading in the wrong direction in Croatia and are very concerned about your future and their standard. Unfortunately, coming back to the past means you have no answers for the present, and I think that's what's definitely in this debate today. In the very memo you signed, it is said that many of the privileges that the former government has imposed will be abolished. In your opinion, these benefits are only used by the rich. I'm not sure that these rich people live in hill-mounted areas, that these rich people live in areas of special national concern where we've secured some relief. I'm not sure those rich people are tenants, that those rich people who, for the first time in very high years, are buying an apartment so I'm not sure I'd like to be with you about the reliefs they can use, and all those teachers and scientists who sent us a document here a few days ago during their protest saying they don't agree with their first apartment benefits because many of them with their salaries say they're rich and have big salaries at 50 years old still don't have their own roof over their heads, and it's very important that when they buy their first apartment, they're freed from part of paying their obligations to the state. Unfortunately, you're also showing here when you change the tax system that you're unable to deal with the real problems. The tax system in this country is not a fundamental problem. The main obstacle is the failure of the state, large systems and monopolies, it is a problem but it means that you should work much, much more to go into certain reforms, to have to go into many unpopular moves that do not occur to you, and therefore you will find out by who who knows which times you reach out to eliminate some tax reliefs in this country. The same way you signed this agreement with the IMF and that you will reduce the number of goods subject to a zero VAT rate over a certain period of time. Definitely at that zero VAT rate are those products that are most important to our citizens, they are bread, milk, so basic food products. According to the State Statistics Service, the average personal consumption per household for food is about 1/3 and consumption is therefore a very large share of the total consumption of our households. Therefore, removing the zero rate and increasing that rate would certainly mean a blow to the largest number of our citizens and to their standard. In the Government of Croatia's programme, I quote, Croatia's top priority is to increase the overall social standard of particularly social layers in a difficult material situation and a stimulating tax system that will increase the purchasing power of citizens. According to this now, as you have committed to an agreement with the IMF, there is no regrettable increase in standards. Unfortunately, all of this will only make it difficult for those who are already living very hard. To be somewhere I would be very much to say the picturesque ones in the paper have calculated that life in just the last eight months has accumulated about 400 kuna, and if you cut or abolished a zero rate per milk and bread if only in a four-member family you would buy a daily pound of black bread and a liter of milk, so only a kilo of bread and a liter of milk would you get an increase in the budget so that family per month by 60 kuna. For you and me, Mr. Minister, 60 kuna increase per month is not a major blow to our standard, but those who barely survive are certainly that entire fortune. Every year, it's a 12-month thing. Therefore, this way we will not come to what you have committed in the pre-election campaign, which is an increase in the standards of our citizens. We also suggested that when you talked about reducing the VAT rate by 2%. We then suggested that this zero rate spread a little bit more to children, to their food, to their needs. Unfortunately, there is also, as we were told last week, it is obviously not the government's priority to discuss this more seriously. So, not that there is no expansion of zero rates for some needs and equipment for children but even the zeroth rate for bread and milk is abolished. In any case, the standard of our citizens was primarily to be discussed in this House and not to sign it with the IMF, and only then to insist that the SDP should be discussed in this Parliament. In the end, I would like to say that all of us together must, and primarily you who are in power now and who have received the mandate from the citizens to solve their problems should certainly be concerned and one spirit of pessimism that is spreading to Croatia. In fact, it is very explicitly established research that conducts certain research houses and this index of optimism for economic opportunities, for the quality of their own life and optimism for the personal financial situation are never lower, so pessimism among our citizens who are primarily connected to their standard of living and how they will be tomorrow is therefore, pessimism is very, very high and it is something that must certainly be one of the factors that you need to take care of. Here, after today's debate, I think if this continued rhetoric that would be talked about what the former government had done if the former government had said so, which it had inherited, which all the problems it had encountered in its work would not have been Mr. Minister or the positive AVIS, there would be no highway to Split, there would be not all those shifts that have happened in the past three and a half years, so I think it would be much better if you too started to solve problems in this country and didn't keep going back to agreements that have been past and the government that are no longer in power. Now you're in power and start solving this country's problems.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22781	Thank you very much. Corrections to incorrect allegations. First respected representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22782	Mr. President, thank you. Well it's incorrect and constantly trying to impute something that doesn't say in this stand by arrangement. Nowhere does it say that a zero VAT rate on bread and milk will be abolished. It's simply incorrect. Therefore, your entire statement based on this is based on one inaccuracy.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22783	The esteemed representative is dancing to correct the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22784	I'm correcting an incorrect quote. My colleague Opačić said that you, Mr. Minister, said this in a different way than you do, I would trust you, I would be pleased. That's not true. You will never be satisfied with this HDZ government.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22785	Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, respected representative Milanka Opačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22786	Well, Mr. President, the Rules of Procedure of Mr. Matusic, who was correcting it, was injured.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22787	What article?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22788	So article 214 correcting something I didn't say.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22789	No, it's not 214.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22790	Or rather in your... [[The speech room is off, you can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22791	It's not 214. Let's learn. Josip Djakic corrects the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22792	Mr. President, I will correct the inaccuracies of my colleague Opačić where she claimed that the past government had not dealt with all the negatives of that government until 2000, but I will argue that that is how the vice president of the last government said he would deal with HDZ and its satellites. That's right and you did it.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22793	Honorable representative of the Mato Church.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22794	It's a discussion, isn't it?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22795	Yeah.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22796	Thank you, Mr. President. The deficit, gentlemen with ease, could have been below four and a half percent last year. I can show you that below 4%. Even below 3.5%, but that would be. Don't be surprised, it would be very bad for Croatia if it were. Here's how he could have been below those deficit numbers. You should have.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22797	Gentlemen, let's hear from the MPs, don't throw or interrupt.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22798	It was supposed to slow down the highway work. And there would simply be no obligation transferred this year. We wouldn't have done those papers. There'd be about two billion kunas. But it was time for you to be this spring when it rained. If you were to build a road. The truth you could in that case from joining the road of the Dalmatian and continental sides. dRugo, we could easily put in the budget 2.3 billion just from HT and from other great companies and all other dividends. Well, we've directed it into the development of Mr. Minister. Defined a smak of software and information industry projects. And we couldn't take that money because we went with the PR development chart. Please, we could have taken other dividends from other public enterprises and that deficit wouldn't have been nearly 3.5 percent. We could have, please, spent 55 million from Basel without any problems, and that would have covered a good part of the deficit. We could not leave for this year but spend a hundred million other tranches of fat. We could have had a proposal from the Russian Deputy Minister of Finance to cut out and withdraw a substantial amount of dollars for the quinine deficit. You have now realized that the deficit would be significantly below 3%: but that would be bad for Croatia and let's get out of these chorus discussions. The deficit should therefore simply be managed. A deficit sometimes if it's even bigger it doesn't have to mean it's bad for the state. And it's up to you to get rid of these wrinkles about who left him some kind of debt for this year, you just have to get the government to solve the problems because that's what it's about. I can speak individually on this subject more broadly. Gentlemen analysts usually know that every policy, every memorandum of its time. You cannot compare this memo with the one from 2001 or the first from 2001 and the second from 2002. Every memo for your time. Please, we had a problem in our first memo, because not simply the state was at the time of permanent political isolation. The growth rate was negative. At the same time, we had 23 public companies with debts with Ina headed in debt. We had at the time please Croats who are for 5 billion marks a year shopping abroad. We had 23 business zones, we had 23 business zones in 2000. Today there are 188 Croatian today is not Croatia 2000. And those memorandas can't be passed. It was not in this memo to accept all this that was accepted. I testify that the people of the Croatian National Bank can, if what the IMF demanded of Racan's government was accepted, there would be no metre of the Split Zagreb road. We didn't accept that. And here the shadow and was supposed to accept a lot. Although HDZ now claims it's his policy. That's the wrong approach. If this is your policy, then your policy is to slow down investment and develop social restrictions, no increase in wage mass, no pension growth, no reduction in VAT and promises. ALL will be privatised by 6 months next year, which is in the Croatian Privatisation Fund's portfolio. So how do you plan on taking people out? Anything you can do to shut down the fund's account in the summer next year. It's shrinking, and the islands won't go on a cheaper boat anymore. And a ferry. Not to talk about the rest. The Huboru is limited by the plasma, no longer able to support exports as much as it should. Investments in infrastructure are reduced from unreasonable to reasonable frameworks. And with all that, gentlemen, the debt is still growing. Debt's growing. It's growing just as much. No matter what this is all about. And don't repeat that he's in charge of paying back the old debts. That's not true. Now if that were the case, then the debt wouldn't grow. We know why the debt is growing this year, and it will grow, unfortunately. Let me just get back to this. Mr. Representative Lino Cervar said an important sentence. The truth had to go to Athens to say it, it would have been better if he had said it here in Parliament. To all the president, to his party president and to the government, to all of us in the Parliament and so on. August 29th, he said. If you have no visions of the idea, there's nothing you can do about it. The old truth that unequivocally confirms it. You gentlemen here today have had the opportunity to show what the vision of Croatia you have, which is behind this policy of yours. Today, it is not clear what Croatian priorities Croatia is defending in Europe in its accession negotiations. In which way we will run an industrial, regional, any other policy, these policies actually do not exist in the same way that there are no reforms in place. What are these goals, which is a movement like the one in Ireland that we now have in front of us. Or at least we figured it out so we could see better tomorrow. We have problems, for example, in exports, which is a key issue. UI exports weren't made of anything. 55 measures of the Competition Council have been taken and none of them have been taken. Please. What was done in launching certain projects to withdraw funds from Europe. Foreign partners' funds and so on. Gentlemen, I won't be long. More than a quarter of the term of office has been spent. You try to count. This government has already spent about 35% of its mandate, given the time... that exists. In the application of measures and so on. And I'm asking you what's more important is what the government's more important move is made. Name it. What the government did and what we have ahead of us would change the situation in Croatia. And now we have this memo here that cements the unfavourable state and brings things back by strengthening tensions and social but also limiting the potential for development. And it's just not good. I don't expect an answer why you didn't respect the council and give this to the debate. I don't care. And I don't even need it. But it's bad for you for the government and for the majority not to seek public support for your policy. How will you achieve your policy and reforms if you do not seek public and public activity to support you in this. And let me just add that, it's often said, public finances will be redeployed. When they were set up to take them out again. Was it then when the pension funds were privatized, in private pockets during the privatisation period? Was it then when 2000 was inequitable that no entrepreneur could have been removed. Was it then when tax collection was much weaker, in 2003, than it was this year, etc. Look, the state's risk isn't perfect yet. It won't be long, those who have it long, it's not perfect, but it's made significant progress. It's four times more covered over a cash register in four years. The grey economy has been reduced by 8 percentage points and so on. The improvement of public finances is actually a matter of a process in which they must be involved and so on. Improving public finances is actually a matter of process in which many have to involve. Especially here, I resent the fact that the government has no view of reviving investments, actually restricting them. There are six sources for investment, none used. In particular, it's a shame what opportunities at local level don't go well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22799	Thank you, five correcting false allegations. First, the esteemed representative Katarina Fuchek.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22800	I want to correct the inaccuracy of fellow Churchmen when he was talking about withdrawing dividends from public companies. In a sentence "we could take dividends from public companies", imputing the rest of that capital for growth. It is true, or it is true that your government, your government, did not know the exact list of assets or businesses, or the obligation of these companies to the budget, which states the state's audit in its report, that some companies were paying off the funds without anyone withdrawing those funds from the Ministry of Finance. Please. ... [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22801	A second correction to an incorrect quote. Dear Representative Emil Tomljanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22802	Mr. President, I am going to correct a briefly incorrect assumption that the fact that a respected colleague of the Church said, once again interpreting the agreement, will increase the cost of transport to the islands. We now have a situation from the master shiper, so "Jadrolinius", not only a statement but a situation that will decrease, which confirms that often in this debate today is the interpretation of certain, let's say, parameters, absolutely not the reality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22803	Correction of the incorrect allegation, the respected representative Drazen Bošnjaković. ... Please, please, leave, now you're done arguing. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22804	The esteemed fellow Churchman that the debt is growing equally. That I don't think is true, because debt is really growing, but it's not growing equally. Debt growth dynamics are not the same as last year's dynamics. It's much smaller, because if it were the same as last year, the debt would be much bigger at this point.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22805	Dear Representative Ivan Jarnjak, correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22806	In a series of inaccuracies, he said, he says, "and a reduction or no increase in pension at all", 4% of this year's pensions increased. 4% increased. Bracek, but that's an increase of 4%.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22807	And Krešimir Cosic, a respected representative. Correction of an incorrect allegation.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22808	Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor. You said you started a lot of software IT projects. Unfortunately, that is not true, I would be very pleased to have done so and I would like to say that the seriousness and argumentation of exposure, I have listened to many professors in my life, but the statements run many software information projects and Croatian industry, is not correct, is not founded and shows one level of improvisation when it comes to serious and responsible things in this country. Dear Professor, in 2000, I personally addressed you with a letter in front of a series of scientists, among other things...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22809	Representative Cosic, thank you very much. It's more... Honorable representativeplatimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22810	Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor. ... But I haven't even started talking yet. You can't replicate. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22811	Yeah, you're right. I have a line written down, so I forgot. Excuse me. Honored representative Stjepan Bačić, a replica of the respected representative Mati Church.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22812	Mr. President, I would like to look back on the two issues of Mr. Church. One is about respecting the Parliament, and the other is the the thesis that some economists represent, that the deficit is in the development function, and that's all true. The deficit may be in the development function, but it is a matter of which procedures must be respected. This Parliament has adopted a state budget and has passed the Law on the implementation of the state budget and this brings about every year and every government must adhere to it. It's not a matter of respect, it's got to be. And what did you do? You say, we could, so we could do less, and we did more. You're in charge on purpose, because you said, we made roads, and it's all right. You invested in Rebro Hospital. And that's okay. But what's wrong with that? That you did it without the Parliament's approval. You have violated the Law on the implementation of the state budget and you are going through it, and you are constantly calling for the Parliament's respect. You understand? It's no problem to do something, but you're in charge, and for that you didn't have the Parliament's approval. You could and you had to come before the Parliament and say, we have a project, it's well completed, and we ask the approval of the Parliament, that is, to make one rebalancing. You didn't do it, and now you're constantly calling for Parliament respect. That's the problem. The law must be respected.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22813	The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of the Mato Church.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22814	Thank you, Mr. President. I was actually talking all the time about the current memo, not this former practice, and I was just.../Laughter/... and I don't mind opening up a debate on any subject from the past, but put it on the agenda, gentlemen. It's not on the agenda now. And I'm telling you, and I'm telling you, things aren't comparable, things aren't comparable to any serious analyst and there's no improvisation, especially when it comes to deficits. So, and about who he is to whom he left in what situation. That's one thing, another, Professor Cosic, Mr. Representative Dr. I'd like to answer that very simply. Public enterprises, but not before, were twice a year placed before the Croatian government and filed reports on how they implement the programmes the government has given them. Out of the debts they were in 2000, they all came out, except for two companies, with high profits. And also, at that time, the government discussed and established programmes that would continue to develop, related to the activity of these companies. For example, the money that was made in HT was related to projects that were prepared, Mr. fellow professor, in the field of software and information industries, not only to the dispersion of Siemens and Erricsson, but to a number of smaller companies for which it was prepared. So, all that was done was to start development, and I today think that even under these conditions a slightly higher deficit was not a problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22815	And a respected representative, Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22816	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor. We are talking today about something that the government has promised the IMF and it has very quickly accepted it. But the question is, did the government promise the IMF want citizens? Is that what citizens would like to spend the next four years? Do citizens, therefore, want to eliminate some zero rates, to create a whole series of other measures prescribed by this IMF? Just because we represent the views of citizens and give the government a clear mandate for negotiations with the IMF is an obligation to discuss this here in the highest representative body of citizens before the start of negotiations. That we, as representatives of citizens and representatives of the interests of citizens, can show what citizens think about the possible measures that should be done. That's why that obligation was made. Not for someone to criticize or praise. And then, I believe what Minister Schucker said, if we were to talk about the same things differently, then maybe we'd talk about the same things because we'd sort things out in advance. This is really how we talk about the same things today. Since this was not the case, the talks, according to the prime minister's statements, lasted very short an hour. For this average man can't even read this "stand by" arrangement, but here, within an hour, we've been able to negotiate such a good "stand by" arrangement, or we've got one Memorandum of Economic and Financial Policy. As a statement of this Memorandum of Economic and Financial Policy today, you can download on the website of the Ministry of Finance a document called "Timetable obligation by stand by arrangement signed on 4 August 2004". And it says very clearly what the Government of the Republic of Croatia will do this year and the next two years in exact terms. I didn't know what we were going to discuss today when I came to the session. I don't know what we're going to discuss tomorrow, we don't know when the next session is going to be, but here the government has made it very clear not to the Parliament but to the IMF what they will and when they give him the opportunity and what he will discuss with him. And I am surprised that today there is no government budget of the Republic of Croatia with projections for the next two years. Because it says very clearly here that by the end of September the budget for the three-year period should be prepared starting from 2005 to 2007 according to paragraph 23. A memorandum of financial and economic policy. That's what the government signed and what commitment it made to itself. Now, either this isn't worth it or the government doesn't respect what she signed or the budget exists, but we don't know in the Parliament. It is obvious that the IMF should have received an agreement, this, the budget by the end of September, and we still don't know when we're going to get a budget in the Parliament to discuss this budget. I am pleased that the IMF has influenced the government to draw up a budget for next year under the Budget Law, not to adapt the Budget Law every year to each budget. But that's how much principle. I only want to look back here at one sentence in this Memorandum, and he says the following. That it would reduce the legal limit for borrowing the local state from 3% to 2% of the annual revenues from the previous year. First, local self-government was to be written, not local states, because the local state as such does not exist. But I'd like to say a few facts about this. We were after a whole series of years when we didn't have a limit on borrowing units of local self-government, which was until 2002, including 2002. In 2003, the government and parliament introduced in the Budgetary Law that 3% of the previous year's income is a limit in debt. This year we had 3% in the budget, but in the budget rebalancing we reduced it to 2%. When you look at it, it looks like this in Croatia today. That the central state currently owes more than 93 billion kuna, and that the overall local self-government where these citizens of the Republic of Croatia live and solve all their daily problems and want to raise their quality of life, is charged with a total of 2 billion kuna, of which is the responsibility of the City of Zagreb, which still needs to be observed in particular, 885 million kuna. Which means it's total, all units of local self-government are in charge at this point with just over a billion kuna. Therefore, we cannot talk at all about the impact of the task of local self-government units on the debt of the state because these are total disproportionateities. On the one hand, you have a state that has 93 billion kuna and a local self-government with a billion kuna debt. You have a state that has a budget of 80 billion kuna and such debt and you have a local self-government with about 12.13 billion kuna budgets. So we're talking total disproportionateness. And instead of allowing local self-government to achieve a developmental stopper next year, try to raise the quality of life in its municipalities and cities and counties with various forms of funding. To solve some problems in these municipalities and cities, we will come to the conclusion that next year units of local self-government will be able to nominally borrow around 250 million kunas. Now that you turn it into a school, it's one of four schools. When you turn it into some sports halls, it's one of six gyms. When you turn it into biological purifiers it's two good biological purifiers, but only two. So we have to isolate all of this. Thus, in the following year, not in the next year but in 2005, 2006, we say that local self-government will be able to make, for example, 2 biological purifiers in such a way of financing. The local self-government can no longer be entrusted to those goods credits with the contractors. We have not prepared legislation with the form of franchise, leasing and partnerships in private and public. We are indeed limiting the possibility of local self-government trying to solve the big problems it has in the next three years with capital investments. Local self-government has suffered for 13 years because some problems need to be addressed at the state level. And really now is the time after we built most of the highway, after we built some other capital projects at national level, to allow local self-government to breathe. But I'm sorry, if next year the state might be in debt or, we heard, this year that the state is increasing its debt by about 7 billion kuna, and at the same time we've given local self-government the opportunity to owe it 300 million kuna, then we really can't talk about the independence of local self-government. The ability of local self-government units to borrow is an increase over the past 3 years from 70% to about 87%. The local self-government unit has the ability, therefore, to raise the loan. And we're telling them today, over the next three years, only few will be able to get into a position to raise some credit, and it's probably going to be 2 or 3 bigger loans which will solve the whole situation. I think it should be quite certain here, at least this, that this provision of the Memorandum should change and allow units of local self-government to ensure the desired quality of life of their citizens in a way that they can implement these projects through various forms of financing of capital projects. Remember that we have decentralized secondary and primary education and are expected from cities and counties to build high schools. The plan is to build 300 schools in 10 years. I don't know how local self-government units are going to build schools, if we're not gonna let them raise even a loan to build a school. For the construction of kindergartens, this is not about some projects that are not important for citizens' lives. This is about everyday life for citizens of important projects. And the other thing is because of the restrictions agreed in the budget is that there will be nothing since decentralisation either, unfortunately, that Minister Schuker did not insist on his words when he was an opposition representative and that now as a minister, he does not advocate that more money remains where taxes are created. Obviously, in the future, the state will not give up its tax revenues and not only that, but on the other hand, we will now make it impossible for local self-urps to be in debt. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22817	Replica is a respected representative of Mato Church.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22818	Ladies and gentlemen, local self-government is one of six important areas of resources where funds and investment forces can be activated in Croatia in the short term. And that's very real. That was said by counterpart Mršić, however, I do not see that the government and one of those 6 sources that could maintain and support investment and design and develop and how it will be activated. At the same time, it is clear that the capital market has developed. Although there are findings that public finances are unsettled but major reforms have been made in the financial system from banking, payment transport to the Law on the Croatian National Bank, the new Foreign Exchange Act has been implemented in pension reform and new health insurance which provides significant opportunities for the capital market further and for investment opportunities overall. Now, in 2004, I told Mr. Shuker before Christmas, 2004 is the hardest year Croatia has in service of its obligations to abroad until 2011 and you see they are still serviced without problems without the state coming into liquidity problems. As easily as possible in the domestic capital market, the state withdraws funds, due to the existence of a capital market. Of course, when there was indifference and everything else couldn't have happened, and that's why I'm still trying to deepen all the variations and they're real, they exist here in our midst. About how to support and run certain development programs is one of the very ones Mr. Mršić is talking about and what Koprivnica and some other cities are doing.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22819	Reply to the replica, distinguished representative Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22820	I would just like to answer to my fellow Church that some units of local self-government have indeed made innovations in funded capital projects, today we have 5 units of local self-government that have financed or financed projects in the past period by issuing... bonds, this year it was Koprivnica and Zadar. And it's a little absurd but we have a call on the table, the Zagreb Stock Exchange is calling for an annual conference of the Zagreb Stock Exchange in Istria to come and talk about the financing of capital projects in local self-government. And now we're going to sit down to push that stopper that started this year to push as many units of local self-government as possible to decide on the issue of unitary bonds that are absolutely empty and pension funds are hungry for such papers, we're practically making it impossible because no serious pension fund can even buy a bond emissions that will be 250 million in total. And one more thing I failed to say in the main debate, it's that there's a thesis that borrowing on the domestic market is going to reduce the ino debt. It will be difficult to reduce the ino of debt if you issue bonds denominated in euro and it will be difficult to reduce foreign debt if customers of such bonds are mostly foreign-owned banks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22821	Thank you. The word has a vice president at home, the esteemed Mato Arlovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22822	Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. I think we should actually discuss a much broader segment of the issue than this debate itself is about the memorandum. Why? Because, in its content, the memorandum actually enters the entire programme policy of the Government of Croatia and Croatia on the one hand and on the other hand, at the same time, we have very large and justified state and national objectives of interest for all of us regarding the foreign policy, related to European integration, and regarding the internal policy relating to achieving economic growth and the development of the resolution of social issues and the problems that we are in. Now you can see that we might be able to do so, then we must first of all know who is responsible and who can help and where it can help, and in this context I must open two previous questions. They seem to be formal at first sight but it is actually one serious question why it is marginalized, so if you will and do not respect the Constitutional position of the Croatian Parliament. Please, first of all, the fact that it was not possible to approach the conclusion and accession of the debate on the memorandum at all, without prior notification of the Croatian Parliament, or to sign the agreement without prior hearing. But that's one problem. For example, the second issue that follows from the content of this memo, we have here for the first time publicly written that the Croatian National Bank will, among other things, consider the introduction of price-oriented... capital in the event that the foreign capital comes, and what is our role in all this, and in fact whether we will adopt it after that Law or we will reject it, to the issue that the government undertakes to discuss in more detail the settlement of the Constitutional Court's decision on the return of debt to pensioners and how it will be resolved together with the International Monetary Fund, or that, for example, the so-called "Issuing of the Constitutional Court's decision" and how it will be resolved together with the International Monetary Fund. So they say we intend to seek the technical assistance of the IMF to address pressing problems and thus in order to adapt financially or, in particular, when you take the contributions by which the supervision of the implementation of the memorandum is actually entrusted to the International Monetary Fund in cooperation with the Government. My lords, it is with the Constitutional Position of Parliament which controls the executive authority and controls the achievement of that part. In this regard, I believe that the conditions of business have matured for the Government to submit, on the basis of paragraph 2 of Article 111, a report to the Croatian Parliament on its work and the state of the individual areas covered by it, and, if not, to the Croatian Parliament, on the basis of paragraph 1 of that same Article 111, to the Government to report to the Parliament on its work in the policy it implements, etc. In particular, what I would like to point out is that on the one hand, it can happen in one country that we have one programme for economic policies and a single country's overall programme and development policy for domestic use, another programme for the international community, specifically here for the international monetary fund and the World Bank and a third programme that is actually ad hoc pragmatically realized in reality, which is not based enough on that programme which is for domestic use and even less which is for the International Monetary Fund. My colleagues and colleagues, I have here a programme of the Government of the Republic of Croatia for the term of office of 2003. - 2007. That's when you read and read the memo, those two can hardly be compared. This is a program that offers a single development component, of course its specific way the Government is for 2003, 2007, which tries to solve both certain social and economic issues and this is a program that is a base, an IMF based on so-called The monetary approach, which primarily comes from being part of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the saddest part of it, puts the Croatian People's Bank in a position that needs to be secured in fact by the return of debt to creditors who placed their financial capital in the Republic of Croatia on the one hand. and, on the other hand, that they should be allowed as foreign partners, large companies that have entered the economy of the Republic of Croatia so that they can extract even the opposite of the signed agreements and contracts they have signed in privatisation as for example in the case of HRT. So that they can extract that capital from the Republic of Croatia, not that they invest it, place it, create new jobs and employ it, ensure that new technologies and new jobs are conquered. Look at the deal with HT in privatisation. What did we do? Exactly according to the IMF, the government, under a memorandum with the IMF, has managed to extract two billion and, of course, make it possible for the other two billion kunas to get out of it... So instead of getting a developmental one concept, we've actually got one... approach that primarily protects capital that needs to be secured. And what hurts me in particular. [[/the speaker doesn't understand.]] The colleagues of our Constitution have some kind of special protection. And we have accepted here, among other things, that we will open a specific form of privatisation not only of financial and economic capital, but also of the natural resources of Croatian forests, which is said to be restructured first, and then privatized, etc. And compared to what was written in the Government of the Republic of Croatia's 2003-2007 programme, where it is said to turn into holding companies, to form special companies that will enter holding and manage differently, etc. It's quite different from what the IMF says. So we need to know what the government wants. We need to know clearly what the government wants and it is the government's duty to make such an account to the Croatian Parliament, and to the majority, or coalition that has given it confidence. After all, for the people. I have something else to mention as very important to me, too, a very interesting question. For example, the further high degree of integration between the Croatian banks and companies with the international capital market limits the possibility of the CNB affecting the level of economic activity, current account deficits, foreign debt, etc. And gentlemen, why are you proposing to the International Fodna, the Monetary Fund that you will continue to privatise Croatia's insurance,... Croatian Post Bank, Croatia Bank that you will privatise what are actually companies that have the largest national profit, i.e. profit as INA, as telecommunications... etc. [[/the speaker doesn't understand.]] What are you doing this for? If you will, you are actually further deepening this link of capital with our domestic companies and harmonising the possibility that and what little the Croatian National Bank has in this respect... It's another thing I have to say openly. The question is, in fact, in what way and to whom is this programme turned socially? This memorandum is addressed to foreign, bank, foreign companies that placed capital in the Republic of Croatia, not to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, not to the development, not to the resolution of the issue of unemployment, not to the resolution of the issue of social justice in relation to certain categories of citizens, because if it is said here that the abolition of zero rates will be reconsidered, if it is said here that there will be no pay, if it is clearly said that it will be financed only from the portfolio of state ownership, the companies in which the owner of the state is the owner of the debt to the pensioners, then we actually say that we will not do anything there. And now there's a very open and clear question, actually why and where is this memorandum intended? I'm afraid this memo is directed, firstly to protect foreign capital that is passive. Second, to enable foreign capital to be further placed here and to enter the most vital and significant pores in fact of the Croatian economy, including natural resources such as forests etc. agricultural land. and I'm afraid he's headed that way to actually allow foreign companies that have entered the Republic of Croatia to extract that capital... Now, in that respect, I don't mind the government's decision, and that's the program. [[/the speaker doesn't understand.]] Because there's nothing to argue about here. That's what it says here. It says here, you know. It says that the government, together with the Croatian National Bank and the International Monetary Fund, worked together to develop a programme economic policy that has two main objectives, is on the first page of this memorandum. So it's either this or that. We need to know. There's one more question I have to ask openly. Is the issue of actually constitutionality... Gentlemen, before that, we had a conclusion that the agreement cannot be concluded without the debate being held in the Croatian Parliament. [[/the speaker doesn't understand.]] If you notice the last memorandum concluded by the government by the former one, it was held in the Croatian Parliament and noted, so the parliament did not approve. But here, gentlemen here is asking a serious question under the Constitution, this is about taking on certain financial commitments and certain obligations in changing the legislation of the Republic of Croatia. and in this respect, this is not a mere memorandum as a preparative legal act which obliges the Croatian government, i.e. the Croatian State to act. No, I don't. Rather, certain rights have been adopted, the fulfilment of certain obligations is accepted, even provided for sanctions from an international point of view if they are not met in connection with the financial blockade. Gentlemen, I say this program should be confirmed by the Parliament and by the two-thirds majority. Please, Mr. Minister, we're discussing your program. Therefore, I ask you to seriously consider this issue for a simple reason, because it is about the interests of this country and of the citizens of this country... in this part of the country. I didn't mean to count the dots on purpose. Every one of these thesises...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22823	Vice President, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22824	I'll be right there. Based on the dots and what's signed, I could elaborate much longer than 10 minutes at our disposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22825	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, distinguished representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22826	Mr. Vice-President, I will correct the incorrect allegation of the esteemed Vice President Arlovic, who is saying that in this signed arrangement with the International Monetary Fund all the negatives stand, and that in theirs it was quite different, I will only remind him of one point in their agreement that the key to the success of the fiscal programme is a determined wage policy and a reduction in the number of employees, especially the Ministry of Defence for about 12,000 people in 2003. This is your real policy.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22827	Replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22828	In the other part, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22829	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22830	..there are also health reforms in which you increase participation, introduce a budgetary limit for consumption, for clinics and for polyclinics. And I mean, what are we talking about today when you compare each other?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22831	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22832	Mr. Vice President, Article 209(2), which he says, has been injured. If the MP asks for a word to correct the incorrect allegations, the chairman will give him his word as soon as he finishes speaking to him. In his speech, the representative must be limited to correction, otherwise the chairman will take away his word, etc. A respected colleague violated this provision of the article for a simple reason, because I did not speak at all of the comparatively comparing this memo to the former government's memo, but rather with the government programme of the Republic of Croatia for the period 2003, 2007, or the government of Dr. Ivo Sanader. It's something else.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22833	Replica. Honorable representative of the Church.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22834	Ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Vice-President Arlovic spoke of the funds achieved by privatisation. I'm here to collegiately say it's always been a problem. But now it will be a particular problem, because the IMF will very tightly tighten this government in relation to every digit and every decimal that stands in this arrangement. At least that's my grade. And right now, we're nowhere near the 4.5% deficit for this year. Roughly, I have no insight into the details. I think at this point, there's more, there's about 2.5 billion at least. To achieve a 4.5% deficit. It's going to be very difficult and the question of how we're going to end this year. Secondly, I say again, it was a bad strategy for you gentlemen. It was to show the biggest deficit in 2003, so we cut it by something on the decimal, so it will still be high enough so that we can master it in 2004. That's not good, with it we didn't hit Racan's government, but we hit on Croatia's neck with a load that made you easily gripped by the IMF and said, so much of that data. I claim, this arrangement will be very difficult this year and I doubt it's possible in that way, and I don't know what that means any further. The government I believe has backup solutions and knows what to do. It would be good to know that in the coming days and around the budget, etc.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22835	The answer to the vice president's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22836	Mr. Vice President, my dear fellow Churchman, in principle, I agree with your point of view, I would only like to further deepen and argue that part. I'm afraid this kind of privatisation as offered in the memorandum will not respond to the programme objectives adopted by the government of Dr. Ivo Sanader, that it will revive the economy, encourage its growth and development, open employment and address a whole range of other issues. I will, for example, blow it to point 17. Where, among other things, it is quite nice to say in this area, we ask for help from the World Bank, we intend to continue and restructure the shipbuilding site in state ownership in order to reduce their dependence on the budget and prepare for privatisation. Finally, we will continue restructuring in the most important public enterprises, especially in the Croatian forests and maritime business of Jadrolini in order to improve property management, reduce the number of employees and prepare these companies for privatisation. Gentlemen, instead of getting growth and development by opening new jobs and employment, we're actually going to privatize in a way that's signed, in a way that the new workers are going to lose their jobs, without employment, we're going to destroy one part of the metal industry, because it's the most accomplished in the shipbuilding process and... In particular, instead of passing a law on how to achieve this particular interest of the Republic of Croatia in the case of the Croatian forests, we say that we will restructure and sell in a way that reduces the number of employees in them and actually reduces the profit that will come out of them, and if this potentially achieved profit at the sale occurs then we will give it to pay off public debt rather than to solve employment issues and create new jobs. [[The speaker is off, you can't hear it.]] I personally think that in such a situation... The opening of growth and development for the economy and in such a situation no matter what we want to say is that what is signed if it is achieved is a pity for the Republic of Croatia. [[The speaker is off, you can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22837	Thank you. Replica is a respected representative of Tomljanović.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22838	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here, I will replicate to my esteemed colleague Arlovic in advance, looking forward to a quality response to the replica and in connection with his presentation regarding the constitutional and legal relationship between the Parliament and the Government, in his view, on the basis of the signed role or constitutionally define the position of the Croatian Parliament. In this regard, my opinion is quite the opposite that the signing of this stand by the arrangement has not disrupted in any sense the relationship between the Government and the Croatian Parliament in particular in terms of the provision of Article 114, so where the Government is responsible for its work and in Article 112, inter alia, between the government or the tasks to be carried out, is that it takes care of the country's economic development, leads foreign and internal policy. So he also cares about the economic development of the country. What do I want to say? It is true and no one escapes that in March 2002 this High House reached a conclusion that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has committed to certain matters, namely, Article 122. The Rules of Procedure set out the government's obligations in this regard. But what are the specific obligations? These are the obligations to report to the Croatian Parliament about their intentions to conclude such or similar arrangements or let us say the rights and obligations of the Croatian Parliament which she has done unequivocally and we have had the opportunity to hear the moment among other things when there has been a debate here on changes and additions to the State budget for this year. And on the second segment of the obligation under the conclusion is that the arrangement in question is not signed before the debate at the Croatian Parliament. The same parameters should then be used as in the previous ones. But I'm not just saying that for the sake of this comparison as in the previous amended, substantially modified and truly similar or identical arrangements. Just one more sentence, and that's the next one.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22839	You've already passed the time.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22840	Here's another sentence. If the conditions for signing this arrangement had finally been met on 4 August of this year, then at a time when the Parliament did not sit and the debate would have meant either calling an extraordinary session or I would like to conclude that the conditions had now been met.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22841	Thank you. Time's up. The answer to the replica of the vice president of the House.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22842	So, I don't doubt at all that there are conditions that the Government can sign this memorandum on 4.8 or rather not signed by the Government, but ministers, and under our Constitution, such a contract can be signed by the Government. Therefore, ask whether the ministers when they signed had power over the government because they do so on behalf of the government rather than on behalf of the ministers and the National Bank. That's another question. But it stays, it's not controversial here, Article 112. Article 139 is controversial. The constitution that clearly states, I quote, "The Croatian Parliament confirms international agreements requiring the adoption and amendment of laws, international military and political contracts, international contracts that financially bind the Republic of Croatia". My colleague, this memorandum obliges Croatia to amend its laws and to pass some new laws, and in this respect it should be confirmed in the Croatian Parliament. In addition, it commits Croatia to certain financial acts and, in addition, it delegates constitutional powers related to the supervision and control of the implementation of this Memorandum from the Croatian Parliament to the Government and the IMF, and the fact that the opposite is the same as Article 112 again than Article 80. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, which "expresses verbis" as you well know it among other things, says the Croatian Parliament is overseeing, quoting, overseeing the work of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and other public officials responsible for the Croatian Parliament in accordance with the Constitution and the law. Therefore, it is obvious that here the Croatian Parliament has been brought into an unfavourable position in relation to its constitutional position and its constitutional responsibility in relation to the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I don't think it can be fixed. It can, but then we need to open a debate on the confirmation of this memo in the Croatian Parliament. It's something else.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22843	Thank you. The word has the esteemed representative Joseph Leko.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22844	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister, representatives of the Croatian National Bank! Just before I prepared my presentation, I will present the event that happened to me today in the Parliament. I had a visit from a young citizen of the Republic of Croatia, he is 21 years old, the medium professional training has ended, he does not work and does not know when he will be employed, so he told me by listening to this from my room, so do you know that you fellow Leko there are 4 million people in Croatia who are outside of political parties. It doesn't matter to me which party is in power and what you parties are having there. I wonder if I can get a job in Croatia or if I have to move to New Zealand. I want to know which government guarantees me that I will live better, provide me with a job and ensure that I feel good in this country. I say it works, and every government, every government has that goal. He tells me he has a goal, what kind of openness the government is when you talk about such an important document. So, not about the document but about my future at a time when no one will even look at you, when your arguments are hidden, when the agreement is signed outside the agreement, means you represent me and the citizens of the others. What's this about? Either it's a guilty argument or you have no argument or you're hiding it from us citizens. Why are you doing this? I said I don't know but I'm going to ask that question publicly at the Parliament. I really don't know. If the parliament has reached a conclusion and has obliged the Croatian government to have such an important document that determines the future of the country and its citizens for at least 2 years because it is spoken at the time. But even more because economic measures are far longer in action than they are in use. Then there's really no excuse that the citizens didn't know before the signing. That they can dictate what awaits them. Now there's something I was going to say. This problem, including today's government, needs to be really responsibly approached. Indeed, the current HDZ government announced its goals at the beginning of the mandate. And they are reducing taxes in the Republic of Croatia to achieve economic growth, to achieve employment growth, to achieve living standards, to join the European Union and NATO. Indeed, in my court, the government has well seen the goals that support the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. These are, indeed, the most important objectives of the public and of the state in my court. But for this to happen, visions are needed, programmes are needed. What happened today? The government has already given up some of its goals. In fact, most of the goals. Why? It is not just good wishes or political will that is not enough volunteering when it comes to the market and market economy. Programmes, measures, projects and moves are needed. I really expected the government to come out with a strategy and a vision of speeding up employment on the good projects it has prepared. We don't have that. Is there a job project to be offered? Is he offering? It's not offered. I thought the government would try to put creative experts in the Republic of Croatia and creative potentials into function of the development of society. However, fans are hired, political fans they can generally cheer well but cannot solve the problem. They don't even create a new value or make a profit. What the government has done to improve the specifics of our economy, especially competitiveness as a condition for exports. I don't know if anything's done. I don't know if there's any program again please say so. Our economy suffers a huge tax burden, suffers high banking interest, suffers expensive energy, suffers an ineligible exchange rate policy that does not encourage exports, but encourages imports. The state has not developed other measures that would neutralise unfavourable exchange rate policy and would increase the competitiveness of economic operators in the Republic of Croatia. How the government intends to reduce its foreign debt when it does not plan to invest or even complete all projects from the last government. This encourages the competitive ability of our competing states and our companies. It is not possible to pay for the competitiveness of domestic goods and services when interest on loans and financial resources is significantly higher than in the Eurospa Union, which is, of course, often targeted by the Croatian economy market. through the high interest of business banks, the bank can be said to be a basnoslvone profit, on the burden of mentioning the competitiveness of Croatian businessmen and Croatian goods. These same banks, on our misfortune or luck, we rescheduled, unloaded, and gave up. And it's all on the field of tax collectors. There are still living actors and the party is now in power to convince our citizens that emergency sale of banks is necessary and that the sale of banks will create market conditions that will lower the interest and price of capital as in the countries from which the customers of our banks were. Did that happen? It is not, but a basnoslovous profit of business banks and a large part of the newly created Croatian value of the domestic economy through the acquisition of these banks is coming out of the country. It should also be repeated that energy prices are really high so that our goods are competitive on the European market. Is this government really just thinking about keeping your hands in your pockets? This makes economic trends worsen. This international monetary fund and stand by arrangements make it more difficult to make the situation more difficult, as is the case with these economic conditions. He concretes those terms. And we can't measure if we can not our citizens. They're looking for development. They're looking for perspective. They're looking for a future. We need to secure new projects. We have to take risks. In order for the government to act, osugarti instead of suspending HABORu's 200 million kuna loan, in response to foreign banks, she closed it. This further weakened the Croatian economy. We need to show more responsibility here. In such circumstances, please, we promise the International Monetary Fund that we will privatise our companies. Who's gonna buy them? Who's going to buy them when there's such a restriction. It seems to me that this policy reminds a great deal of politics in 93, 2000 when a Stabilisation Agreement was adopted. When it went to privatization, when jobs went missing and companies went missing. He can't buy companies for Croatian citizens when he's not employed. 300 thousand unemployed workers, that means again those who have this policy will have even more money, and those who were poor will remain even poorer. We can't deal with it. It's not the international money fund's fault, he's just asking that the engine that's our weak one, and that's our big-ass consumption that's huge, is guaranteed by the sale of our companies. That's what they want to know. That's what they want to know. We can't agree to that. It's not a government that's responsible for the people's benefit and towards the future. That's why the debate is this afternoon. Not in the morning. That's why a memorandum was signed past the debate in the Parliament. It was not a promise from the Croatian government regardless of which party it came from. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22845	Thank you. We have four replicas. The first is Marin Jurjevic, a respected representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22846	A colleague, Leko, had cancerd that HDZ had announced before choosing its goals, it was actually not true. Since he has only just published them now, since his colleague Hebrang said this is a programme for HDFor this is a restriction of the number of prescriptions by a doctor who refunds HZO. It will increase participation for medical services and medicines. Reduce the number of releases from participation. Lower further investment in roads and highways. We delay the VAT reduction, we will reduce the number of goods that are subject to the zero VAT rate. And what do we say from Dalmatia, compared to those roads? What do we say about that tilt train? There's no fellow Shucker here who assured us that he would be coming to Split by 6 months, so let's drive him to the river, just don't lean, drive a Drito, straight, etc., the story of Jadrolinija, etc. That's where my colleague Tomljenović mentioned "Jadrolini", yes, yes, they reduced the price of karate, but it says here that "Jadrolini" will be privatized, that a significant number of workers will be fired, and what about the subsidies? No more subvenics. The price of tickets, de facto companies, will be reduced, its price on the market and will be sold cheaper, that is living truth. What about shipbuilding in these conditions when you say, when you talk about guarantees, what about pensions? Here you know, when it comes to pensions, the question of "long pensioners". You can't even admit here in this synagogue that this debt exists because they wouldn't fit it into quotes. As the former prime minister has assured me ten times, I think of the HDZ government until 2000, that there is no debt, and that is now the implication here, and it is normally the crown of everything, we intend to speed up the privatisation process again, and in principle it was until 2000. It's Mr. Leko HDZ's program, not what they said in the election campaign, so it's not exactly what you said, that they announced ahead of their goals.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22847	I say thank you, I suggest that you inside the club agree, not have this many replicas on your representative's exposure. Replication response, Your Honor, Agent Leko. Or one break of 10 minutes and you can make a deal.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22848	Mr. Vice President. Coliga Jurjević, a very good judge of what pains him and his Dalmatians, and I wanted to talk in general about the citizens of Croatia, so I talked about privatising Croatia's insurance, Croatian bank, Croatian postal bank, HT etc. when Croatian citizens have no money to buy those shares, so those who bought in the last privatisation will become even richer. I object to this policy, and whether it's from Dalmatia, Zagreb or Slavonia, anyway. ... [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22849	Replica, the esteemed representative of the Mato Church.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22850	Dear gentlemen of the HDZ.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22851	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22852	I have a replica, now you'll hear everything. Mr. Leco was saying... Please, I'm giving up until you make order and you start... [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22853	Here, I've made the order, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22854	Oh, you didn't do anything.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22855	Here you go. I'm asking you to make it possible for the esteemed representative of the Church on the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22856	Thank you. Mr. Leco was talking about serious financial problems. I understand that's not what you're interested in. You're even suggesting that we discuss it at your club, Mr. Vice President. But I think you're wrong. This memo says to Croatian citizens and entrepreneurs: you are ill-written. That is what the Memorandum said to Croatian citizens and entrepreneurs. And now if you don't care what we're talking about, then it's really not your problem. You're gonna take this, this pain of our debate, and tomorrow we're gonna go on normally. But I'll ask you soon, how long. Because these financial problems can't be overcome. These are problems and employment and development. Please, it's well shown here. In such conditions of poverty and of citizens and entrepreneurs who will privatise, who will buy Croatian property? Where are your balance sheets? And allow me, in this year, gentlemen of the HDZ are arriving further restrictions, you will propose to Croatia this year and introduce additional restrictions, both in social and investment. Hold my word, which means, that means, let me, we invested 4.4 billion from the budget in the development of the 2004 budget, with the infrastructure 6.4 billion. And in 2003, 12.4 billion, with export support increasing from 576 million to 2 and a half billion. None of this can be done if we have a situation like we have today that will not allow for the implementation of development programmes to continue, while at the same time leading to poverty both citizens and the total impediment of entrepreneurs.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22857	Thank you. Replica, the esteemed representative Vujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22858	Mr. Vice-President, I have no illusion that in international relations, especially in economic relations, friendship is a government and that these are not the same as by prolonging different interests which, through globalisation, are very sharpened especially when it comes to transition countries and especially when it comes to such countries as Croatia, which still has, which is small and has a lot on its neck. What I've been offered by Mr. Leco and what is a replica, and others before him, is to say, voluntaryly stripping their underpants in certain things of this policy that we wouldn't have to do in that way, and that's how we behave. It is amazing to me, though I can explain to myself that we are talking about sovereignty and that we are talking about sovereignty and that this is just coming from the bench of our esteemed colleagues, and that we cannot answer any particular question of what this sovereignty is about. Does it have aspects of economic sovereignty, where we have sold out factories, whether it has aspects of monetary sovereignty, where we have given banks, whether it has aspects of financial policy in which we cannot establish our own financial policy, tax and buy the whole system rather than as dictated. Finally, does he have any aspects of media policy? Because we've sold out everything in the media, and in fact this country is gone, not able to send its own messages to someone, but to actually have neutral bases, and there are these globalisational and I don't know what other interests are. It's all clear to me. It's not clear to me next. And that's that the government doesn't ask a program that would otherwise answer all these questions, that in this whole stand by the arrangement and the Memorandum there's not one aspect that would say, well, that's now this mobilization ground on which we're going to continue to organize and run this society, so we're going to say to reduce social rights, so we don't know what we're going to do, but we're going to get caught up and build this country out of this. No, I don't. This is a declaration of the total passivity of the Croatian Government against any initiative it owes to these citizens and to the Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22859	Thank you. Time's up. To be honest, I don't see the connection between the presentation of the esteemed representative of Lek and your replica, but well. There isn't any, so there's no answer to the replica, probably. Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22860	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. I think that colleagues from the SDP are violating Article 209 which states that if the MP asks for a word to respond to the SDP, the chairman will give him his word as soon as he finishes his speech. I don't think colleagues who appear on the line are responding to any allegations, but they use time, using time to argue.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22861	I don't think it's an Article 209 injury, but we're a little bit of an abuse of that replica. A little bit, a little bit. Replica, the esteemed representative of Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22862	Mr. Vice President, I'd like to initiate an initiative to change the Rules of Procedure so MPs can't replicate within their own club, and then we won't be doing that, but I'd like to rephrase to my colleagues the question of who's going to buy this state property. I assure you, my colleague, that they will be very interested in buying state property in 2004 and 2005. This was not the case in 2000 because there were then a thousand 943 companies with a total basic nominal capital of 83.1 billion kuna, of which just over 30 billion were state-owned. But 47% of those companies were insolvent. 29% didn't pay for more than 360 days. The total liabilities of all companies amounted to HRK 49 billion or 54% of the total share capital. They made a year before 5.6 billion kunas of losses, only 2.7 billion kunas of profits. 244,000 workers worked in these companies, out of which nearly 90,000 were insolvent. Indeed, there were no reflectors at the time to buy these companies. But in that period, there was a privatisation programme, and then, through restructuring and consolidation, more than 10 billion kuna was invested, for example, in shipbuilding. In agriculture over 12 billion kunas. In some other companies, there is also significant resources, and today there are really reflectants to buy these companies. So this is also the subject of a Questus fund run by a former finance minister who is very actively involved in both privatisation and concession in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22863	Thank you. Replication response. Dear Representative Leko.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22864	Dear colleague Zgrebec. That concerns me even more, I am even more concerned because just a small layer of Croatian citizens will be able to buy. This will turn the schedule of economic, financial power in Croatian society into a very small circle of people. Was that the other policy of the ruling party?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22865	Honorable representative of Gordana Sobol. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22866	Thank you, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Minister, wherever he was at this time. So, I'm also one of those who thinks that this Memorandum, therefore, is a "stand by" arrangement with the International Monetary Fund signed in secret and it was purposely so done and a bit funny is the excuse that he said today, that is, the excuse that the Minister of Finance said today, that it was actually not true that this arrangement was secret because it was published on the Internet pages. It sounds a little funny, if I hope you know how many citizens of Croatia use the Internet. Unfortunately, I can also say that it would probably benefit more citizens today if you had, for example, respected the SDP Representatives' Club proposal when we proposed that the purchase of computer and IT equipment be made into tax relief. However, regarding the "stand by" arrangement between the International Monetary Fund and the Government of the Republic of Croatia, I would say that it was actually reached for mutual satisfaction. On the one hand, by signing such a "stand by" arrangement, the IMF has somehow signalled to foreign financiers that the Croatian economy is stable and that there are no risks of paying off due annuities to foreign lenders. On the other hand, I am convinced that the Government of the Republic of Croatia is also more than satisfied. Because actually through this arrangement, through this "stand by" arrangement, the IMF supports most of the main government's, measures or intentions so far taken, so, what it means to bring. In fact, no matter what most of my colleagues and colleagues have talked about it so far, I think that even in such a small later hour it is worth a repeat. The main points of the agreement are to remove parts of tax relief, to give up VAT cuts, to plan new tax burdens. This agreement results in a full privatisation of all companies where the state has up to 25% ownership by the end of the year, from everything else owned by the state, including the largest enterprises such as HEP, Croatian Forests, by 30 June of next year. This agreement envisions the abolition of the Croatian Privatisation Fund's jury account, which in my view also opens the way for a new non-transparent spending of money from privatisation. Furthermore, this agreement goes towards freezing pay masses and going towards non-fulfilment of agreements with pensioners because the real share of pensions in salaries would fall, instead of growing in line with promises, that only resolving the debt to pensioners as clearly as it says in this agreement would go only with the previous agreement of the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank. One of the main promises, i.e. guarantees as he called it HDZ and current Prime Minister Sanader, was to reduce the tax burden on citizens and businesses. That was particularly true, I guess we all remember that, and the reduction in VAT rates. Under the agreement, however, tax burdens appear to be increasing further. Since the VAT cut, we've already voted on that, or one part of you voted, this is where you gave up. The abolition of some more tax reliefs introduced by the government is announced and is essentially contrary to the HDZ initial announcements, so it is right to ask whether this government has any economic strategy at all. It is also obvious that there is, in fact, an immediate answer because I am the Deputy Prime Minister, Mr Hebrang, said that this signed agreement with the International Monetary Fund, that is, the economic policy of the government. Under the agreement, I said, the government must implement the quick privatisation of the largest firms in a very short time. Of course, we are all asking a question with the right, how this will affect, for example, the promise to the pensioners and, for example, to create, under quotes, a pension fund where they should be found, under quotes, some quality shares. Another problem that arises in privatisation is the abolition of the Croatian Privatisation Fund's jury account. I'm here to argue that it opens up the possibility of possible malfeasance, and I think not so far past teaches us that we have to fear something like that. The agreement is fundamentally restrictive, the agreement requires the government to freeze wages in the public sector, the agreement means a failure to fulfil promises made to pensioners and to interrupt or significantly slow down the most significant development projects in our country. This is actually an undeveloped, non-investment arrangement which, not only could but would negatively affect Croatia's economy. I'll repeat what my predecessors said. This agreement has not been written for the next month, two or three, this agreement has been written and valid in some way until half of 2006. Let me just have a few more sentences to look back on, I think my colleague Leco said a few sentences about it. What about exports and how does the Croatian Government actually treat exports to this agreement? We all like to say that exports are the key to the success of the Croatian economy and should be the main focus of long-term sustainable development. Unfortunately, in this agreement, those who have carefully read, exports are paid the least attention. And while on one side of the IMF should neither be expected to insist on this element of economic policy, I must say that it is at least astounding that the government has not tried to "stand by" the arrangement to boost the role of exports in the economic policy of the future period. Because it should be recalled that the current government as a political party in its pre-election time rightly highlighted exports as the most important part of future economic policy. In real life, however, economic policymakers are doing nothing either in the measures of the current economic policy. And basically neglecting exports, I guess we can agree here, can have far-reaching negative effects on growth and the overall development of the economy. In line with that, a few more sentences about tourism. In fact, we all like to highlight tourism as one of our most prospective export branches, however, and according to what it says, or even more that it does not say in this agreement, it is estimated that tourism does not have the right place in economic policy. So while on the one hand it can be understood that the IMF will not highlight those branches that are the priorities of our development there is no justification that the Government in this stand by arrangement does not seek solutions that allow sustainable growth and development of a branch that, on top of the importance of overall growth, means the inclusion of the Croatian economy for the foreign market. In addition, I would like to remind myself, recently a special body that has been formed, I think it is still existing that the Competitiveness Council has proposed 55 truths of a number of general measures but these are the first 55 measures to increase competitiveness but none of these proposals and measures absolutely nothing can be seen from this agreement. What I want to conclude from all of this, from everything that has been said so far, can definitely be confirmed that exactly the widest layer of the population, those who live in Croatia on average or below average will feel the most in the future what is signed by this agreement, and it is certain that all future social policies of this government will currently suffer the most because of this agreement. Now, I will end up with agreeing that every policy currently in power bears and the greatest responsibility for bringing social giving into the real economic and financial frameworks but it does but I also believe that it deserves a social and professional conviction to make unreal promises that cannot be carried out.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22867	Dear Representative Davorko Vidovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22868	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. I regret that there is no Mr. Shucker here because I would like to polarise with what is in the opening and during this debate repeatedly repeated but we do not or should not lead this debate as a controversy, especially for reasons of showing who is right, who is better, who is burning, but primarily because we all seem to care about the interests of the citizens and the improvement of the citizens of this country. I am afraid, unfortunately, that this Memorandum is bareing all the impotence of all the ingenuity, incompetence and I would say the lack of any developmental vision of this country, and that is why it is a serious issue, and that is why we should discuss it. By listening to the comments and explanations of the Minister of Finance, we could actually say that he too accepts the thesis that the Memorandum and what it says is worth nothing, that it is bad paper but that this paper was produced by our predecessors and it was actually created in the workshop of someone else rather than the current Government. We've actually been listening here all along about how they've been signed and what's been written in some former and past memos, but that excuse is not the answer to the key question of what the economic, social future of this country is in the next two years, which is what we're going to live for. If we oppose visions, then I will be pleased to remind the Minister of Finance as well as those who agree to such restrictive and, above all, compromise texts and the idea of Croatia's future that it is a religious debt and there was a debate that went on to say that the money that is missing is always missing and that it will always be missing, that this money has been used to develop the well-being of Croatia and its citizens, and for the sake of citizens it should be mentioned. We wouldn't be going back in time if she wasn't called by Minister Schucker. From inherited minus 0.9% of economic growth occurred at one point in time to 5%, however relatively the nature of this economic growth is a fact and it is a four-year period of five-fold increase if you want that GDP growth. We, Mr. Minister, inherited 475 thousand unemployed people in Croatia. That number's down and it came to 300 grand when you got power. It'll be very easy to explain, I guess, and you can count on that, 355,000 people were registered at the Employment Service, and 150,000 worked and didn't receive their salary for 6 or more months, so they were unemployed too. That's where 470,000 unemployed people are from. We inherited Croatia with a net salary of 3055 kuna and gave you Croatia in which the salary was 3981 kuna, which was 31% growth in 4 years. The peace offerings were 1172 kunas, and when we left they were 47% higher, they were 1724 kunas. The consumption of Croatian households has indeed increased by 24% in 4 years, saving Croatian citizens in banks has increased by two and a half times or 240%, Mr. Minister. The amount of approved housing loans doubled, 100% increased, and the agreed savings in housing savings increased compared to 99. 29 times. It has been sold every year by 30% more vehicles than it was in 99 years, foreign exchange reserves have been increased by 100%, and I don't say that when you mention it like that, what is clear to every citizen that has traveled to the sea this year, how many highways have been built, that's what is visible to everyone, clearly without any figures. Tomorrow when they compare your government and that former government will be relevant to those citizens, and that future that this party was in power. To the citizens, it's totally real and whatever. But if you come from this poor vision of ours, at least part of it will be fine. But we can't keep our mouths shut to stop the road construction. We can't accept to stop the development of the railroad. We cannot accept all of this to stop the growth of Croatian citizens' standards. It's all in this document, too. Let's just take the linguistic level of this document. Watch out, it says like this. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Watch your It saves about 700 million. Reduction of the legal limit. Control, preventing re-emergence, limiting numbers, setting prices for domestic medicines, reducing prices, increasing participation, reducing the number of exemptions from participation, curbing wage growth, reducing further investment in roads and highways, further limiting health spending, reducing costs, reducing the share of current consumption, delaying VAT rates, abolishing a certain number of companies, etc. The reduction, the abolition, the reduction, the restraint, the savings, the control, etc., speaks of your vision, Mr. Minister, and that's what worries us all over this story. What is it with the vision of Croatia? What about social justice in this country? What about social development? What about building municipal infrastructure, economic infrastructure? How do we respond to the fact that tonight reporting 79 places we're competitive in the world, 78 is Uganda. We are the last country in Europe, only Serbia, Montenegro and Bosnia and Herzegovina are behind us. Well, these are questions that this memo does not answer. And that's why it's a memorandum that I'd further say it sounds ominous to people whose future is created and as someone said today with such a restrictive philosophy that's being looked at in the language you're giving here has no future. We are neither Denmark nor the Netherlands that we can afford a civil government, we need a government with a vision, a brave one, who will know the emerging development projects and serious reforms to take if we want to make a improvement for our citizens. Unfortunately, this memo does not testify, but rather vice versa.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22869	Replica esteemed representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22870	A colleague of Vidic's. You say the last four years have increased enormously the number of housing loans. So you see these housing loans that the citizens took, they enter into that total external debt. And that's why Minister Schucker and this entire government are accusing the former government. That it allowed citizens to raise their loans and resolve their housing issues.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22871	Come on, please. Yes, the answer to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22872	If you fellow Stazic wanted to replicate me in this sense, then you could indicate, for example, that the number of populars with another television has increased by 42% compared to 99. That the number of personal computer coups also increased 42%. With the dishwasher 27%, with the microwave 61&a, you could have said all that if you wanted to replicate me.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22873	Ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, the replica contrary to some of the views expressed here is the answer to the quote of one of the previous representatives who spoke. Replica is not a polemic, replica is not something used for a whole other purpose. The fact that whoever previously chaired you here told you it wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure, it was a violation of the Rules of Procedure. And in this way, I will no longer allow anyone to answer the line. HDZ Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22874	On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, Mr. President, I'm looking for a 15-minute break. We're not a humble brother. A minute's break to take some views on the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22875	Thank you. Representative Piploic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22876	Here's on behalf of the DC HSLS Club and I'm looking for a 15-minute break. I have to consult.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22877	I approve of both clubs break of 10 minutes. ...representative Ivan Jarnjak to explain the proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22879	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues! The HDZ Club has asked for a break to discuss this debate and we have assessed that it has indeed been very diverse, rich, contentable and that everything that is important and said about this problem is practically everything. We therefore propose that parliamentary representatives in further debates not repeat themselves but say if there is anything else new, try to shorten and sum up their debate. First of all, I can ask members of the HDZ Club to join in, and especially some to give up further discussion, because I do not think that repeating this issue is necessary and that it is clear that such a further debate will not bring any new quality. Therefore, the HDZ Representatives Club proposes such an attitude for the rationality of work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22880	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Frano Piploic on behalf of the HSLS and DC Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22881	Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues! The DC and HSLS Club is also of the view that during this nearly six-hour debate, everything that should have been said about this topic that was on the agenda has indeed been said. Clearly, we were expecting a little more sensationalism, but obviously there's no room for sensationalism. I am glad that the SDP colleagues have really considered this problem from all sides, so I believe there is no one in the hall here who is not clear what has to be explained about the International Monetary Fund. I was about to say and say another sentence like this, she said, "It was shaking worse, the International Monetary Fund was born." He is here among us and the former government has worked with the International Monetary Fund and the current government. So we know what we're all doing here. And I also suggest that we bring this a little bit of an end, not to repeat ourselves, because any repetition can actually bring such a quality effect into question to the end. Let the government rule. We ask her constructive questions when the time comes, when there are opportunities. The only thing that would make me at the DC Club and HSLS resent the government for not really coming out early in front of the Croatian Parliament with this material because it really had nothing to hide. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22882	You heard the appeal. So let's move on to the debate. Dear Representative Zdenko Antesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22883	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! I would refer to respecting the appeal of distinguished colleagues primarily on the memorandum and its influence on Croatian tourism. In fact, not to repeat what has already been said several times, however, it is necessary to say that this memorandum definitely gave up the VAT rate reduction from 22% to 20%. Therefore, it also does not accept the repayment of debt to pensioners, reducing social rights to certain categories of population such as reducing the number of prescriptions for HZZ-refunding drugs. It reduces or decreases further investment in roads and highways and also reduces the number of goods subject to a zero VAT rate. However, the announced or new tax reform will increase the tax burden on the population and the economy. It is interesting that this memorandum completely marginalises Croatian tourism. I suppose this memorandum is signed under the pressure of the International Community, which does not aim to develop Croatian tourism and Croatian economy, but primarily protects its tourism, so Spanish, for example, Italian or Austrian tourism. It is simply amazing that a branch that is said to have significantly improved the current account situation in its revenues last year gives meaning to some complementary activity of the economy, which is obviously not. While mentioning the importance of exports for the overall development or state development of tourism as one of the strongest export levers is fully marginalised. I think tourism should be given the proper and concrete support of the state or economic policy, and in fact become one serious generator of Croatia's overall economic development. Tourism is here and yesterday we had opportunities to witness it mostly talks conveniently about celebrating when gathering guests and income from tourism, however it is systematically ignored and marginalized. For this reason, the government must set itself up towards tourism as a strategic branch and must assist and develop a series of coordinated activities. This is unfortunately not the case in practice and we can create that tourism is still happening to us as a philosophical phenomenon and primarily thanks to tradition, natural beauty and maru of valuable people who work in tourism. The confirmation of this is a series of moves the government has made in its current mandate, which certainly did not contribute to encouraging Croatian tourism. First, by abolishing the tourism ministry or by attaching it to the ministry, it is an act that tells itself what the government's attitude towards tourism is. Secondly, the high VAT rate for tourism of 22% is certainly the highest rate, the tax rate of all of us competing countries in the environment. Third, the provision on the Road Safety Act of 0.0 has changed, the provision is contrary to the civilization gains of our society and directly endangers the consumption of tourism. In addition, the start of this decision in the middle of the tourist season is certainly out of every sense. Not to mention how many Croatian winemakers are going to suffer, who have recently made a remarkable improvement in production. It certainly is not an incentive for them to deal successfully with the unholy international competition. The fourth, earlier start of the school year, and since September 1st, he has forced all parents who have school children to finish their vacation early and thus cut even shorter the tourist season. We also need to know that the countries from which most tourists come are also experiencing a crisis and they also shorten our vacation. That is why domestic tourism should be encouraged and developed because without it there is no quality tourism and this measure, I think, at the beginning of the school year, is in direct contrast with that. Fifth, reducing incentives and unsettling agricultural development policy. It is a national shame that Croatian hotels serve Dutch tomatoes and potatoes, Spanish and Greek fruits, Hungarian meat until our agricultural producers can sell their products. I wonder if it's someone's interest or if we're not able to deal with negotiations with the International Monetary Fund, which is obviously not interested in developing Croatia, but rather in protecting the interests of their own countries. Six. The lack of a vision of fishing development and giving up on a fishing ecological zone will lead to the destruction of our fish fund by powerful international fishing fleets. And then at the Croatian Hotels we will eat the same thing that happens with meat, vegetables, fruit or imported fish. Seven. The black market, both on the sea and on the mainland, creates an unfair competition for our tourism and generates a terrible flow of money beyond any social control. The government has found an effective mechanism so far to deal with it. Finally, it can be concluded from the above that Croatian tourism may even be a random form of some sort of secondary economic branch. And this signed memo confirms his status. Tourism must be one of the levers of long-term sustainable growth, and development and one of the main economic activities and should be given adequate and concrete support to state and economic policy and, unfortunately, it has not been the case so far.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22884	Thank you very much. Dear representative Jelena Pavicic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22885	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Your Honor, I'd like to return to the document myself in a moment. We've all read it many times today, and I really think we know all the details. The first fraction is already very positive, and I think it is, unfortunately, one false hope that the same memorandum in the positive light actually looks at the future of every Croatian citizen. But in the drug chapter, the attitude of course is infuriating, and it says here that, for example, the public sector is large and ineffective as if it were a novelty. Well, actually, if it took the Croatian authorities eight months to figure it out, I think the Croatian citizens knew that much earlier. Every day, in fact, it also encounters a tromium of bureaucracy, with arbitrary authorities and their arbitral approach to solving the problem. This chapter also mentions, of course, foreign public debt in the public and private sectors. And the concepts of the interpretation of this debt to the public are actually long known. While one is for development, for investment, others are obviously unable to follow that pace sign this memorandum and in some ways seek an alibi, escape or even justification for their own failure. But who will actually explain to the citizens the sentence, which I have actually verified with my signature by the Prime Minister, Mr Ivo Sanader, where, with this point 12, says, if the health measures fail to achieve the objectives set and we will increase participation in medical services and medicines, we will reduce the number of releases from the participation, and introduce changes to supplementary health insurance that will reduce expenditure by November 1st. And there is a fundamental problem for most Croatian citizens. What measures are in health and what are actually the objectives set out, these measures must actually be taken. I think it's quite clear that it's a reduction in public spending. The measures that will lead to the objective, thus reducing public spending in the health sector. And how that public spending can be reduced at all. So only if there are fewer patients who need to be treated in our health care system and we really can't influence it. And it is quite certain that, in fact, with those first November citizens, I can also expect an increase in the participation for medical services and medicines. A reduction in the number of exemptions from participation, including an increase in compensation for supplementary health insurance. In the chapter on the intention of starting the mid-term process of tax reform, we also read that the government is its citizens because of the trust shown to HDZ in the elections. In fact, it also intends to reward a certain number of exemptions from personal income tax. So by eliminating tax relief, i.e. By abolishing the tax relief on the medical service provided, which we have paid for ourselves. By publishing the content of this memo, which has been persistently wanting to hide from the public and the debate in the Croatian Parliament, and which has been trying to marginalise by the signatories for two and a half months if something irrelevant. I think the Croatian public is getting much clearer. Instead of negotiating how we will have better quality living conditions, the government has actually left the IMF to set the standard of citizens in 2004, 2005 and 2006. For this very reason, Klub's representative of the SDP and proposes not to accept this stand by arrangement with the IMF in this House. We actually think that the citizens have been cheated three times. It's the first time it's 2002. The HDZ then asked for the signing, before signing the stage by arrangement, to hold a debate at the Croatian Parliament. Secondly, because the same HDZ without a parliamentary debate at the time of the July parliamentary session signed the same document. And the third ptu when the public saw the content of this memo, which is completely contrary to the social and economic components of HDZ's pre-election programme. Today we have already heard the launch of Croatia, unfortunately it can be reversed. And let's just let it go for a very short time, which is what we're actually expecting next year. We are likely to be expected by some more expensive and expensive nose drops, the introduction of participation for children perhaps even for Croatian defenders, disabled Homeland War. The addition of supplementary insurance policies, and the elimination of naturally tax relief on a whole series of medical services provided. And what's actually going to give our pensioners ultimately an increase in their pensions by 4% when they're going to give it all anyway, but unfortunately, poon more back to the state for more expensive medications. Equally contrary to the promises of Croatian defenders of the disabled of the Homeland War, it will be obvious and not participated to the medicines, and the HDZ unfortunately promised in the campaign the introduction of a participation for all Croatian defenders and members of their families. Or we can expect restrictions in the field of health, therefore saving in the investment maintenance of health care facilities, stopping investment in the construction of new health institutions. Maybe restrictions mean saving in hospital consumables, or perhaps even in modest hospital meals. All these questions are actually Croatian citizens expect an answer from you. It's not just how they're going to live one and more of what they're going to live. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22886	Dear Representative Jagoda Martic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22887	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, representatives of the CNB colleagues and colleagues. It's human nature to forget things easily and easily, and what we want to remember and what we like to remember, we don't forget so easily. Because of the truth that we need to say in this debate, let's remember that in this high House now ruling and then the opposition HDZ spoke about the IMF, and stand by the arrangement with the IMF signed by the then coalition government. So they could be heard at the expense of the IMF and the following epithets such as IMF models, global police officers, top tutors, and the following finding is further stated: The fact is that no regulated country of the world, no government that holds itself will sign a stand by with the International Monetary Fund, have it neither our neighbours, neighbouring countries, Slovenia, Hungary or Bosnia and Herzegovina. And then who takes and then signs contracts with the IMF. As a rule, those who cannot repay their loans, who seek reprogrammes and then the IMF responds: OK, can, but under conditions stand by. Since it is a Croatian state that can repay its loans, there is no other way but to conclude that the global financial and political public does not trust this government too much and therefore seeks and condition a stand by the arrangement of the IMF and our Croatian government. All this has been said in this assembly by HDZ deputies. Does the analogy of such thinking mean that the global financial and political public does not trust today's Croatian government? So, if he doesn't believe it, it's not against them, because it's hard to trust someone who speaks one thing from the position of the opposition, when he comes to power, rhetoric changes, who promises one thing in the pre-election time, and when he starts to exercise power, it's very easy to give up easy promises. Those are really hard to believe. But back to the Memorandum of Economic Financial Policy that is ahead of us and which is the subject of tonight's debate. In point 11, there is, among other things, no real increase in the wage mass, which is to be achieved despite higher payouts due to the ongoing rationalisation of the defence sector, and that actually means that in translation, the salary mass remains the same, only increases in payments, one increases in payments, in particular to the defence sector, and then automatically means that others must be paid, or the number of employees must be reduced. On the other hand, we have announcements from individual ministries, specifically the Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity, announcing a significant increase in the number of employees, as interpreted by Minister Kosor, a lack of teaming of the ministry. Next, in point 13, the 2005 budget will seek to achieve a general government deficit of 3.7% of GDP, with constant efforts to limit the HBOR's net lending. In order to achieve this goal, we intend to curb the growth of the general government's wage mass, so that it does not exceed the inflation rate. So, salaries and internal spending will be limited, and this particularly applies to public sector salaries, and let's remember what the MP then said, and the current finance minister, Mr Schucker, spoke two years ago in this assembly. I quote, "The IMF has not made sure with its experiences how to help us do things better, but to the smallest details they have entered the spending side, and even to determine what our salaries will be. With the pay cut, we will not get any quality experts in the state administration, and we cannot expect that with unquality people and poorly paid people, which is dictated by the IMF, we will have a quality administration." That's what counsel Shuker said, and Minister Schuker is telling us a different story today. So, on the one hand, there is no increase in the wage mass, and on the other hand, in the next period we can expect a price increase, because of the rise in oil prices, price pressure has already been formed and it is expected to affect the market. So, to expect a rise in costs, with more inflation forming than it has ever been, as the IMF points out. If we take the union budgets and the union forecasts a little bit, they say the consumer basket was for the Republic of Croatia in June 2002 5,069 kuna and in June 2004. 5,332 kuna. As in the winter months, primarily because of high heating costs, the costs increase to 15% of the union estimate say that this winter will first pass the 6,000 kuna border union cart. And if we play it a little bit now and turn it into U.S. dollars, then we can say it took four years for the union cart to grow from $601 in 1994 to $762 in 1998, so by 161 dollars it increased to 4 years, and now it's obviously going to rise from $900 to $1,100 in 4 months to $200. And one of the promises made by this government, which we've pointed out more than once tonight, is the growth of living standards. If we don't have wage growth on the one hand, and on the other hand we have inflation growth, I really don't understand how the government thinks it's going to have a positive impact on citizens' living standards. The famous guarantee card pledged tax cuts, economic growth, employment growth, living standards and membership in the European Union and NATO. These promises were made and are in the program of the government that was presented to us in this high house. All this sounds wonderful and there is no one who would not wish for the fulfillment of all these promises, but unfortunately the memorandum of economic and financial policy that is before us tells us quite differently. There is no tax reduction, even more expected to increase the tax premium and new tax burdens on citizens and economic growth has slowed down, nothing has been done to boost exports, a rebalanced budget narrows the possibilities of a new momentum, even less will be invested in science, education technology, and therefore there is no more permanent solution to employment. There is no chance for larger foreign investment and the country's investment will slow down quickly, and all of this will have a negative impact on citizens' standards. Without any exaggeration, it can be concluded that the population in the next period will most come under attack from the stand by the arrangement. And finally, all that I've listed and everything my colleagues have said before is, at first, a new guarantee card from this government that does not guarantee the citizens of Croatia a pink future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22888	Thank you. Honorable representative Anton Perusko.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22889	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister, gentlemen from the Croatian National Bank, colleagues and colleagues. I must say that man must face the truth at least once in his life, that the truth must look into his eyes, no matter how bitter she may be. False promises may sometimes win elections, but then comes this moment of truth and the moment of truth for HDZ and this government, which is less important. More importantly, the moment of truth has actually come for Croatian citizens and that is what hurts the most. In my view, the Memorandum speaks of what Croatia's citizens expect in the immediate future, and in my view, as I read it, the least painful thing that awaits us is fast and non-transparent privatisation, the economic crisis that will break on the back of workers, the new participations in health care, the freezing of the mass of wages, the reduction of investment on the example of the road by 700 million, the restriction on local self-government, the means of concessions instead of going into development go into the budget, that means, in consumption. Reduction of aid in agriculture, fisheries and shipbuilding subsidies, which I will say something special later on. Elimination of certain zero rates such as milk and bread. Surely, in my opinion, further dismissal of workers awaits us, we are also expected to reduce the share of the mass of pensions in the GDP, not an increase as the ruling party in the pre-election campaign has promised, and we are definitely expected to have an economic crisis which, as I said, will break on the back of the poor. I'd like to make a mistake. Not because of the SDP or HDZ, but because of the citizens of Croatia, but I am afraid that I am right and most concerned that, in my opening statement, Minister Suker has not offered any solution other than calling on the past. I'd like to tell Mr. Secretary, well, let's face it. The former coalition government was a failure, brought the country, you say in a 6.3% deficit, which is not true, but I'm not going to explain it here right now. But that's why we lost the election and now we're wondering what you're offering, what you're offering it new, what you're offering to the citizens of Croatia, how you intend to get out of this difficult situation. I think it is a key issue because it is not the government's task to seek an alibi but to seek out a situation where, as Minister Schuker says, it was found guilty of the former government's sins. I think that's a key question that should be answered, and I would now, in my follow-up to short exposure, refer to something that particularly entangles me, which is support and subsidies. I mean, of course, agriculture, fishing and especially shipbuilding because I come from a place like this where there's a giant ship builder. I read a little bit in preparation for this discussion of the phonograms from the presentation of Minister Cobanković when we talked about the support in agriculture and fishing and a lot of promises about cattle for slaughter, olives, vineyards, I don't know what kind of agricultural cultures. The investment of support in the production of food from the blue field, and on the other day, Croatian fishermen met on Rab and presented a very accurate assessment to me, which is that no Croatian Navy, no Croatian police, Croatian captains, and neither the Coast Guard will solve the issue of overfishing in the fishing ecological belt unless there is a Croatian fishing boat, and it will not be there because they are reducing support among others and for shipbuilding. And now I'm asking myself what is the fate of Croatian shipbuilding? What is the fate of 5 large and more smaller shipyards in Croatia? Which is actually the fate of 12 thousand workers in the 5 largest shipyards and about 5 thousand cooperatives if it is known that the state is mostly, and it is a particularly majority owner of these shipyards, and in manufacturers of various ship equipment it is employed throughout Croatia by about 26 thousand workers. Croatia's shipbuilding was affirmed on the world market as a top industrial product, complex structures, and it is proof that in the last 25 years 22 ships have been built in Croatian shipyards were declared "a ship of the year". In the cost of costing the boat today the share of the domestic substance is climbing to about 65% and the shipbuilding is very important not only for the Adriatic region, but for Croatia as a whole, and it has a large number of employed and significant social components. Exporting between $500m and 700m makes a significant contribution to balancing the country's external and trade and balance of payments. Croatia's shipbuilding is located in 5th to 6th place in the world by production, forecasts for the next 10 years say demand for new ships will grow. Of course, with inevitable cyclical, cyclical offers and demand. The coalition government, with the conclusion of 2002, has committed to subsidising the construction of a ship in Croatian shipyards of at least 10% at the realised sale price of the ship. If this HDZ, or Croatian government, collapses it, and brings the shipbuilding into an unfavourable position, which is undoubtedly the result of point 2. A memo because it's about reducing subsidies, and we know that other years more ships will be delivered than current ones. Therefore, the means to subsidise these ships after they are delivered are needed bigger than they are this year, and we are going to cut these funds. Although we know that in the books of orders in the Croatian shipyards there are 72 new ships worth more than $2 billion, then how and how to go to reduce these shipbuilding subsidies. The ship is, of course, a joint venture of the shipbuilding and accompanying industry. It is agreed over a longer period, and as a product through multiplicity effects, there is a significant increase in state finances than the state subsidy and, I underline, it has a significant social component. Therefore, what is being taxed into the state budget and on other charges is a more significant amount than the subsidies given by the state in shipbuilding. And if we plan to reduce that, and no doubt from point 2, that comes out, then I wonder what the fate of these high-quality 5 major Croatian shipyards is. And as I come from Pula, from a city strong and world-renowned shipbuilding industry "Olinik", an Istrian giant who has employed up to 10,000 workers at the same time. Today something over 2 with employees in a group of about 3 and a half thousand of them. All the workers we trained in "Olinik" and who were fired, unfortunately, easily found employment in Italy and Germany, etc., which speaks of their quality. In addition, "Olinik" belongs to then Croatian shipyards that achieve a positive result and only "Olinik" has more value than the basic capital. If we go to these restrictions, in the subsidisation of shipbuilding, I ask you, gentlemen of the government, are we going to destroy what we have quality? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22890	Thank you very much. We have three corrections to an incorrect quote. The first representative is Mr Emil Tomljanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22891	Mr. Vice President, I really need to correct the incorrect factual allegations of a respected colleague who said, "this agreement will result," I quote, "a economic disaster that will break on the back of the poor." Not only is it not true from what is written in this agreement but there is one sound of such a disaster of creating an atmosphere, I don't know, failing or not using another worse word. I think absolutely at the end of this debate this kind of address or attitude is unnecessary. ... [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22892	He has, he has the right to consider it a disaster. ... So, please, don't. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] You can shoot yourself, you don't have to bargain, and you're wasting gunpowder, right? Let's move on. Correction of an incorrect quote, Mr. Jelkovac. Here you go, Vlado.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22893	Mr. Vice President, my colleague, Peru, said that HDZ and the government have deceived the citizens, which is simply not true, and it is not possible to evaluate it now. It'll be possible to estimate after a while. And the other thing I want to make right is a statement that the minister did not offer any solution during today's debate or speech. It is also not true because the solution was offered in agreement with the International Monetary Fund in the programme of economic and financial policy as well as the Government of Croatia programme. The final score, of course, will be given by voters in the next election. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22894	Thank you very much. Another correction to the incorrect quote Petar Mlinarić please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22895	In four years, it's an example of the payoffs of the wheat, and the incentives you didn't even have in your sleep. [[The speaker was subsequently activated.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22896	Thank you very much. We're moving on with the debate. Mr. Marin Jurjevic has his word.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22897	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. I wouldn't even say that if my colleague minister had been here while I had that little replica while they were still allowed, but actually what I'm interested in, from this over 6.5 hours here, we're talking somehow there was no contradiction, and that's what Mr. Hebrang said that this is HDZ's policy. So it's not imposed on us, it's our policy. And I appreciate that approach openly, honestly and honestly politically and humanly, it's our policy, it's not imposed but we imposed this on the IMF because he didn't have such great demands from us, that we at such restrictions, and we said we could do more than you can imagine. And now it seems to me, Mr. Minister, that I have such an impression, that this is like a whip of this memorandum, but which will be beaten on the back by the most endangered layers of society. Neither do I have any parliamentary representatives, nor do you government members, but would you like to explain this sentence to me, for example: "limiting the number of prescriptions by a doctor who is refunding HZZO". Who will be affected by this restriction? Neither you, nor me, nor many of us, nor those who belong to our social status or layer as you wish, will be affected by the most vulnerable who need that kind of help if anything, about treatment. So what's essential to a socially sensitized state. If you would explain this sentence to me: "We will increase participation in medical services and medicines, reduce the number of exemptions from participation, further limit spending in health." Who do you think this is gonna hit? Not those who can pay for a private clinic, in a private clinic, who can go to Switzerland to operate, although it's good here but when you can't. They're going to hit those who have nothing almost, who depend exactly on this, on what the state is helping him to be alive, to be healthy. Maybe I got it wrong, so I'm asking you to explain to me whether I think it's right. Which means this is to lower investment in roads and highways, so we've heard so much about who started building, who imagined it, it woke up first morning and said it, etc., I know that many have spoken but that the highway was almost over when you came to power and that there were stories before. Does this mean now to lower further investment in roads and highways that this is going to fail or not to be maintained and what to Dubrovnik highways, a little tomorrow which some would say, does that mean whether I'm wrong or whether this is some phrase, syntagma or sentences that I can hardly exchange in view of everything I've heard in the campaign on your part? You promised to cut the VAT rate, here you say it's giving up but you're adding that you're going to decrease, we're going to reduce the number of goods that are subject to a zero VAT rate. If I were to ask you now how much is a liter of milk I don't know if you'd guess but that's what anyone who's threatened and who doesn't have any money knows. I don't mean you, let's tell someone else, you would. A kilo of bread, one or one that's cheaper. Who do you think they are waiting in line to pay the electricity bill, they don't go to the post office because it's expensive for them, it's going to put this at risk. That's why I kind of see a whip in this paper that's going to hit on the back of the most endangered, not our backs, yours and mine. Shipbuilding, my colleague said about shipbuilding I was saying something about Jadrolinija when you were gone so I want to repeat that, my colleague Tomljanović mentioned it was reduced prices now and it is good that they are reduced now, it is past season etc. but what will happen when there is no subsidy to what will happen to the company we promise with the Croatian forests, we will fire one large part of the workers, and we will sell you, which will happen in the conditions among other things when the prices have decreased... whether the company will be offended, then sold, by a company of unquestionable state interest. I think we in Dalmatia are very interested in the island, so I don't even know what that means. We are here Mr. Minister one night in the late hours as well as these when there was no transmission but it doesn't matter, people we're talking about and without television, which we don't care about among ourselves for the good of the general good, we talked about the Croatian railway. You said at the time that he wouldn't take the slope train until 6-5 months, so Mr. Kalmet said he would, so you said come on he wouldn't, etc., he was on his way. He was on his way, but he traveled much longer than what was intended, not a reconstructed railway, today he drives to Rijeka of the compositions, between Split and Zagreb. IS this memo a delay for an indefinite time in the movement of this tilt train between Zagreb and Split? I don't think it's going to hit you or me as much as the students and all those who are headed to Zagreb, or the one from Zagreb to Split, etc., who would travel that train at the speed and price they were promised. They mention here and the pensioners I told the Syntagma, the debt to the pensioners was put in quotes, I'd like you to explain to me why, do you suspect that this debt is not as long as it was spoken from your circles, that it was the washout of those who came to power in 2000 and confessed to that debt. Which means putting in quotes a pensioner's debt. I do not know why it is in quotes if it exists and if you intend to return it and if you intend to fulfill your promise that by the end of the year the average pension will be 50% of the average salary in Croatia. Is it going to be Mr. Ministers because they're one of the most endangered layers that also affects those recipes stories and so on? And in the end, we have often listened to the accusations here that we have sold out family silver, to privatize the unloved, although the truth is quite different, etc., there may be some criticism that it has not been done enough, but you have finally concluded we intend to speed up the privatisation process again. It is no wonder that in many people this causes mild anxiety, because we are not sure how this privatisation will take place, God forbid in such a way as it was until 2000. Here, these are some questions I wanted to ask you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22898	I especially thank Mr. Jurjevic, she is very encouraging, if I may comment. It's very stimulating, thank you. There are two corrections to an incorrect quote. It's the first Ivan Bagaric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22899	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I would correct the incorrect allegations that are regularly repeated tonight, and it is related to participation and recipes and the bringing of participation and recipes with stand by arrangement and the International Monetary Fund. Therefore, Minister Hebrang announced as part of the reform of the health sector and before signing this agreement, and they were exclusively in terms of rationalising public spending, in health care, other countries that had nothing to do with the stand-by arrangement, where they signed it with the IMF and participation as such have other effects, not only raising money, but also deterring people from over-use of health care and spending money which could be used in other ways and for other purposes and for the purpose of solidarity, so to preserve more funds for both, and directed and where the need is greater. So it has nothing to do with this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22900	Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the representative of Ms. Ruža Lelic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22901	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, there's a colleague who fixed most of what I thought. However, here, on several occasions, both counterpart Jurjevic and several SDP MPs pointed out that there would be a reduction in the number of recipes, an increase in participation, so I can't help but wonder if the materials might have been replaced? Because I see health care reform here in the last memo writes a fine reduction in the level and length of payment of sickness benefits to increase, introduce participation for medicinal products and certain health services, and reduce the number of those who are exempt from the payment of participation, introduce the budgetary ceiling for the consumption of clinics and clinics and reduce capital investment in health investment. And also as far as these concerns are concerned, so much health care here we have the same in the material of the former government and in the memorandum is also clear, that although direct subsidies for railways and shipyards have increased the share of all subsidies from the gross social product is more than compensated for lower transfers to pensions and health care. Well, there's really no claim that this government means signing a memo is going to harm health.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22902	Thank you very much. Here are the gentlemen, the appeal brought by a representative of the club did not bear any fruit. And unfortunately, here I must conclude that only three parties, HDZ, SDP and DC, sit in this assembly. Which shows that those who were saying something at the outset do not care about the debate. And I think since he didn't bring this appeal to bear with his colleagues and there are 15 of them, we'll listen to them, so when we're done. Now there's a minister's word, before, here's another word.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22903	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Thinking about whether it makes any sense to come forward at all, but it is obvious that today, all the time in this memo, he wants to read something that does not appear in it. And it's there all the time. So he wants to read that he won't invest in the highway. Which simply isn't true. Budget projections, and fiscal projections in 2005, are available to all, it clearly states that the deficit of Croatian highways planned in 2005 is 3.2 billion. The planned deficit in 2003 was 3.4 billion, and you reduced it by 700 million by amending the memorandum. The 2004 budget is slightly lower than 4 billion since the 2003 budget. and very interesting that this budget guarantees nothing, no social contributions, no pensions, no development, no wages. And it's very interesting that with 4 billion smaller budgets all of this could be done, everything was fantastic. It's a very strange math. Today we heard a series of theories, so we heard that the deficit is not dependent on debt. And a million other things. Also here today, it has been said that this government is abolishing the zero VAT rate on milk and bread. Let me see where it says it. Let's also show one statement from any Croatian government official that he said so. You've been talking a lot about getting rid of the relief here today. Let me see a document from the Croatian government where it says it. You were reading what you wanted to read, what you wanted to write inside, so you could attack the HDZ government. Unfortunately for you, however, and fortunately for Croatian citizens, it does not say inside. But at the same time, you forgot the memos you signed. and you can't skip one period that's been before and say it doesn't matter, let's talk today. I've been here for four years listening to the story of nine billion unpaid. And today, out of those nine billion, five billion salaries this government has paid, because the bonds that come to the bill have been issued. So then you could object to us for inheriting, and we today God save that we should compare some things. You said this government and I as a representative of the government didn't offer anything. So read the phonogram of the opening explanation. But you can't say that spent money in advance that the debt at the border is already critical is not something we should be worried about. If you're the concept of economic growth based on one uncontrollable task, we don't think it should go like that. But there's one other thing. I heard a story here today that this government is holding back the development of local self-government units. I'm like the mayor of a city that's been waiting ten months for my license to be in charge. Why? Because it was said, in fact, it was in the Budgetary Act, an absolute ban on the borrowing of units of local self-government. Why? So they don't affect the deficit, and that's what it says in your stand by arrangement. Then, when you rebalanced the budget, you gave the Budget Implementation Act the opportunity to assign units to local self-government. Why? Because by the end of the year, only a few units that had conducted a complete procedure could be charged. So, in 2003, it was okay when the local self-government unit was not supposed to be in charge at all, and in 2002 when local self-government units could be in debt, it was wrong. Unbelievable, that's fantastic logic. At the same time, we're talking about competing who can do better. Well, this government didn't start off with a 5% deficit, so it's only 4%, as it happened in 2003, and it's been a very strange discussion today of a fellow Churchman who said, so we could have made a deficit like this and like that. You started negotiations with the memorandum, with a deficit of 5% in 2003, to reduce that deficit 4.5% on your proposal. I wouldn't mind if you made him. But the basic problem is that you always want to read something that's not in there. There's nothing in there. That's your problem. And that's why you asked for an argument. You were talking about some secret signed documents, I don't know what. You said the memo was signed in half an hour. There's been a lot of things. I don't know if any of you were sitting in the opposite room while we were negotiating with the IMF? And how easy the negotiations were, amazing. You fought to fight and we agreed in half an hour what you were fighting for. If you had a $3.4 billion deficit for highways this year, we have a 3.4 billion deficit for highways, next year 3.2 billion, then I don't understand what your grand successes are or on the other hand our massive failures and the financial indicators are exactly identical. Croatian railways, yes, if you had written down those billions and 600 million last year above the line so we wouldn't have had to book them this year, and that was the problem of the prone train, because you spent the money in advance, the money you didn't want to show, the money that was neatly recorded in the Croatian People's Bank as a debt, the money that was recorded neatly in HZ's business books but was not recorded in the state budget. We're talking tax relief here today. Speaking of which, I never once said that certain reliefs had a social omen. I never slowed that down. I didn't even dispute that as a representative when I was talking about these reliefs, but you can't dispute another thing that's a note bene fact, which is after 25% of the tax returns processed that unfortunately to those who are destined for those tax returns, in fact those tax breaks, those who need to just buy apartments they simply can't use 48 grand because they don't have that kind of income, unfortunately they don't have that kind of income. I'll give you statistics, and you'll see that a very small group of citizens have used over 80% of these income tax benefits, but at the same time you're willing to claim that this government is going to abolish tax relief, I don't know on what grounds. It doesn't say here. That's not true. That's how you read it. So, what I said last time I spoke today is our biggest problem to ourselves. We change the methodology and say no deficit can be calculated by that. ... It's important. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You can say that the deficit is 5.1, we're going to talk that 6.3, but most importantly, taxpayers' money is paid for what you spend, that's the most important thing, and no one can argue that. All these accounts can be documented and can be displayed. The other thing, to defend someone from speaking, to use the terms that were unimaginable in this House in the last term because no HDZ agent has ever thought to use such expressions is something that surely we as a ruling coalition will never descend to such a level because even to claim that AVISU writes anything else from what it writes is at least ridiculous. Nowhere mentions zero-foot gains before 1991, it simply doesn't say AVIS. Well, one is the AVIS of the European Union, not written by Sanader, not by Zuzul, no one else, the AVIS has written by the European Union and is inside writing about the zero VAT rate. So, in accordance with this positive AVISU, we just put it in the memorandum that, at the end of our mind, there is no elimination at this point of time of zero feet on bread and milk, and you're pulling it out all the time, politicizing it, and you normally expect, on the other hand, that as a representative of the government here, I am silent and that I am not saying anything and that I'm letting you keep pulling out something that just doesn't say in the memo, but it really bothers you when you guys are subscribing what you're signing. And what the fellow Churchman said was good. All memoranda are signed in a particular political environment, in certain situations and economic development and everything. So your first one is different from the second memo. When we talk about whether he needed to be discussed in the Parliament or not, I'm asking you one question why you're a memo that was actually an addition to a memo that was very important you didn't discuss in the Parliament last year in the seventh month. Why? And this one you discussed, this one you first discussed for the simple reason that in the first memo nothing was disputed because it was just a continuation of the memo that was going out. However, the basic problem, I repeat, was that these governments were having a stand-by arrangement that was not concluded and it was not because of this government but because the International Monetary Fund concluded that the last government unfortunately withdrew did not meet almost any criteria from the signed stand by the arrangement.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22904	Thank you very much. Before, here's three, there's an correction to the incorrect quote, I'd like to beg you. I would ask you to be patient, listen to everything you have to say and with great hope that when they come to order after 18 of the SDP's so far, when they come to the turn of HDZ MPs that they will be heard collectively as HDZ representatives and Mr Piploic listen to this. That's what I'm saying because they won't accept the appeal we've brought here, so we'll keep working. There's seven more and there's another 25 discussions. Now there is a correction to the incorrect allegations first Mr. Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22905	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, it's simply not true that we are reading something that doesn't say here and that we are inventing and that we are setting you up to lift the zeros on bread and milk. At first, we are not illiterate enough to read what is not written. Point 14. says you plan to reduce the number of goods subject to a zero VAT rate. These goods are five, bread, milk, books, orthopaedic aids and medical implants. If you don't mean bread and milk, say which one you mean. Do you mean the books, do you mean orthopedic aids so that if we know the disabled, you won't be able to buy orthopedic aids at zero VAT rates anymore, but tell us which of those five goods you're imputing to us that we're reading something that doesn't say because that's exactly what it says here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22906	Thank you very much. Correction of an incorrect quote, Mr. Ivan Leko.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22907	Mr. Vice President Joseph Leko, not Ivan Leko.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22908	I'm sorry, it's just... It's... It's... It's... It's... It's... It's... It's... It's... It's... It's... It's... It's... It's... It's...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22909	Don't automatize me, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22910	I apologized to Mr. Joseph Leco, so I hope when a man apologizes that you accept it.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22911	It's all right. I accepted the apology with no automation. The Honorable Minister accuses us of reading something he doesn't have. I would say that we should be accused of looking for something and there is nothing like a government programme that would enable employment or, as the government has promised, create a smaller and more efficient state administration to be there and that the funds are provided for it. It is not, but the state administration has increased and is even more inefficient. That's true.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22912	Thank you very much. Correction of Mr. Miroslav Korenik's incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22913	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister said there were no expressions here in the previous assembly that were inappropriate from opposition to power. I must say that this is simply not true because we just remember the debate on defenders, the debate on the fishing area when we from the then government and representatives and members of the government were declared traitors of national interests. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22914	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect quote Mr. Slavko Linic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22915	I am correcting several times today the claim that the pre-final stand by arrangement is not realised and that it is not realised because it has not met almost one criterion. It is evident that Mr Shuker will not pass, provoj, the second third report of the IMF mission and that he writes in that third report what else has to be done to meet the stand by in the last session. And his fate is also known. So I can accept that a thousand times repeated untruth may be true. But that's not true. That's not true. The last stand by arrangement was realized and completed and completed. And only one point remained incomplete. Just one. Just one. See, that's your truth, and you want to repeat it a thousand times. But it's not a problem, Mr. Vice Prime Minister. No, I'm done. /The speaker has turned off/... very clearly say, the last signed stand by the arrangement has been completed and expired. And only one unfulfilled obligation. And you can check which one. It's an exact fact and we'll document it when we have 1,000 times the truth.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22916	Thank you. I think there's been plenty of time, right? As long as you like. You can't do this now, Minister. You can't do this when you're having another discussion. Then it's Mr. Representative Mato Raven's turn now.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22917	I appreciate that time has moved away and tiredness. My name is Mato Gavranl, Mr. Vice President, Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister. Dear gentlemen, representatives of the Croatian National Bank, colleagues and colleagues. Here I was for seven hours patiently waiting for my turn. What I certainly hope is, it confirms that I belong to a group of those who care very much about taking part in this very important topic. Not because I would attack our government, I repeat our government not because of the sensationalism that someone here said tonight, but simply because of the concern about what is being read has given from this memorandum of economic and financial policy. A guarantee card has been mentioned down the road so far, so I'm going to go with it, which has undoubtedly marked the path that dr. Ivo Sandar at the head of the Croatian Government and the party wants to go and then through the Government of the Republic of Croatia programme. During the term of office between 2003 and 2007, which we had opportunity to hear all together here on December 23rd last year. The government has guaranteed tax cuts, economic growth, employment growth, standards growth, or Croatia's launch. Less than seven months later, leaving out on purpose or on purpose the least important thing is to report on it to the Croatian Parliament and the public, the IMF government and all of these discussions so far are evident and I dare say, it has committed itself to the contrary. Instead of starting, she committed herself to stopping Croatia. Instead of achieving high developments, the government offers lower rates. We heard from 4.5 to 3.5. 3.7 percent. It doesn't matter, but we're going down. Which are and what are the consequences of this obligation, as the government has taxed them and I've removed them from the document, I hope we're talking about the same document. So this is a memorandum of economic and financial policy that has as many pages as it has. So I'll take the turn. First of all, there is no real increase in the mass of salaries, which means that the main financier of adjustment is an unequivocal Croatian worker who does not have an increase in the standard of living because of this, but now I see that we have workers on the streets for various reasons, it has been less time, so there is no need for elaborars. Secondly, it saves approximately 700 million kunas that will succeed as the writers of the memorandum say I am quoting. By returning spending on building highways to a more reasonable level. And that in translation means stopping the construction of the highway, which in collaboration with Bechtel has achieved a rather painless way. Third, a reduction in the legal limit of local government debt, from 3 per cent to 2 per cent, respectively, by 33%. Which means that it's been said here a number of times by fewer children's playgrounds, less plumbing, less sewerage, local city planning roads. I come from an environment that feels good on its skin because, despite everything, we are cut off for some 8 million kunas of budget funds. From the state budget that I'm not talking about funds, there are my colleagues who know very well, and I'm certainly Mr. Minister. 4. measures will be taken to improve the control of spending in the health sector, which was spent by the health minister in his praetorian way by leaving not only the scientific and professional but also the entire Croatian public without words. 5th, an income of 2 hundred million kuna is planned from raising excise duties on cars, which means a drastic blow to the stander but also to safe citizens. Just 15 days after the government wrote this promise to the IMF, the number of cars sold was halved. From nine thousand in July to four and a half thousand in August. Six. Reintroduction of the financial police. Once again, a solution is sought in the police force, in the discipline, or in the discipline. But it does not surprise me at all when it comes to those who obviously love a firmer hand. Seven, withdrawing 2.1 billion kuna dividends from public companies and concessions for the third GSM network. As a result, there is a lack of development not only for these companies but also for the overall development of the country. That's how I read what the government taxed on 11 fiscal policies. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I did not write the critics of this government, she did not write an opposition, it was written by the government itself. And that confirms that it's clearly a government program. Expressed here down the road. Adding immediately to the next 13 items quote. "We are firmly committed to achieving the target deficit in 2004 and we are prepared to take additional measures if the need is to ensure that the target is achieved, we plan to use all revenues from privatisation or a surplus agreement, which exceed the amount set out in the current budget for the reduction of foreign debt rather than for the financing of consumption. If the health measures fail to achieve the objectives outlined, we will increase participation for medical services and medicines, reduce the number of exemptions from participation, and introduce changes in supplementary health insurance that will reduce expenditure by 1. November." It's a finished quote. All of it clearly points to the conclusion that the government has allowed me freedom of expression, lost orientation. And instead of forwarding Croatia ran backwards. The deficit, or debt, we have heard here along the way and none of us are running away from it, but it needs to be handled with the return of the same, to ensure development, not the halt of Croatia. From the above, the impression is, again, the impression is that this government obviously does not know or does not want to do so. Unfortunately, Croatia's citizens are also scheduled for the coming years, and I will show it only briefly through the example of road construction, it is almost identical in other areas. That's what my colleagues and colleagues used to talk about. In 2005, the government plans to reduce further investment in roads and highways under the new four-year plan of the Croatian highways and Croatian roads, which means that the investment cycle will be extended over time, thus reducing the return effect, reducing the value of the property, jeopardising the funding model and in short, slowing the development. Of course, such a reduction will also reflect significantly on the business of road construction companies, which have sought to increase competitiveness, while believing in the safety of the existing model, have significantly invested in equipment. Of course, the people. There is no doubt that there is no economic growth in this segment, nor is it to be expected, but unfortunately, there is a surplus of employees. Whether there are public finances reform and large system operations through the state treasury, as announced, but in principle already seen from the time of 97-98, which some of you remember well, it is justified to worry that Croatia will be re-rounded by the exchanges issued to roadmen with 12 months, and therefore the open question is whether the Government is starting Croatian road construction from 2004 to the 5th year, to 97th and 98th respectively. And in the end, it's not clear, so I expect answers on which routes will be saved. What's going to keep Mr. Minister unedited? I expect answers and answers, of course, to the questions previously asked, and I hope that there is no question of the end of the highway to Dubrovnik, the highway from Županje to Lipovac, corridor 5c and other significant roads in Slavonia. Of course, but also other economic and capital projects, because according to all indicators, we in Slavonia are already now in spite of the potential on bread and water, so it is unimaginable to take away more, as it is almost completely unimaginable for the whole of Croatia to be like Slavonia today. Time does not allow me, the rest is, I hope that, like all other colleagues and colleagues who are patiently waiting for their turn, I will be able to get answers to these, but also other questions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22918	Thank you very much. Thank you very much, here we are, not even a little short, let alone give up. Here, we have one correction to the incorrect quote and we have two replicas. The first correction to an incorrect quote, Mr. Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22919	Mr. Vice President, I will correct the incorrect quote of my colleague Raven, who claimed that by this signing stand by the arrangement, the Government has committed itself to stopping Croatia. This is an incorrect allegation, but it is true that you who have deceived Croatian citizens under parole, work and honesty, who have said, honestly, and you have honestly entrusted us with Croatia, filled the pockets of your friends and your own companies, humiliated Croatian defenders, left an atomic bomb to be disarmed, removed and sanctioned.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22920	You haven't corrected an incorrect quote. It's no one can order Mr. Raven to think what you think and that's why Mr. Djakic, which, despite my constant reminders, you correct other people's opinions, you got a warning, and if it gets too loud, then we won't do it again, we'll extend this session, so please don't react like that. As you can see, let's move on, if I may say so and congratulate the 18th staff of SDP, Mr. Mimica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22921	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Mr. Secretary...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22922	We skipped the lines, I'm sorry, and it's better that they're gone, so let's cut it short.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22923	Mr. Minister, Mr. Vice Governor of the Croatian National Bank...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22924	I'm cutting short on this side, but I can't get anything off this side.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22925	Here, in collaboration with the International Monetary Fund, the Croatian government has drawn up a Memorandum of Economic and Financial Policy setting the foundations of macroeconomic policy this year and next. This, in itself, could be a good news beyond any possible context, but the news in our existing conditions is certainly not good, as it is because of its content, and because of the way we are familiar with it. Among all proven legitimate objections to the government's ability to act on the plan of internal development and the failure of the pre-election parliaments to launch Croatia, one fact all this time was particularly worrying, and it was that the government had no economic policy and that was true until some unusual times the light of day saw this memo. Then it became clear, the government has an economic policy, but what kind? For nothing, the competent ministers are trying to convince themselves that the Memorandum reflects their original will and mind and that their content and the content of the memo are not forced by the IMF pressures. Whoever knows the approach to which IMF representatives enter into negotiations with governments knows that it is difficult to defend the thesis that the final content of any stand by arrangement is as large as the government initially imagined it. It is always only a question of what will be more, in agreement with the IMF, of national interest in economic policy or well-known IMF recipes? But the question is whether the memorandum is an expression of the independent will of the Croatian government and is not the most important. For the government, it is even worse if it is originally the Government's office, because the content of economic policy in it is potentially fatal to the development of the Croatian economy. Today, there were plenty of speeches and evidence that the policy defined in the Memorandum was undeveloped, that it was satisfied with the growth of the GDP of 3.5%, that it was not using the instruments and resources that the state could use to promote economic growth, to deny significant parts of transport infrastructure, that for consumption, rather than for the development of industry and investment, the profits of public enterprises created for years by the former government's economic policy, to uncritically assume the privatisation of the entire remaining state portfolio within an extremely short time period, to undermine all possibilities for the implementation of commitments made by the government to pensioners, to mean a direct blow to the standard of public investment and development. From all of this, this is about a harmful contract, a corrupt policy that makes Croatian citizens absolutely no longer need or can expect better days, a better standard of living during the term of office of this government. The government, with its air-raiser and approval of the IMF, has taken the priority of reducing the general government budget deficits and establishing order and transparency in public finances. This cannot, however, be the most effective policy at a time when, in a relatively short medium-term period, we must prepare the economy and society as a whole for better integration into the conditions of membership in the European Union. Increasing the competitiveness of the Croatian economy is a fundamental issue of the success or failure of our adjustments to EU membership. And this very competitiveness will not be able to increase the conditions of fiscal and other restrictions. We are therefore at risk of losing the period of membership in the European Union, which is the only possible period for a planned and effective increase in economic efficiency and competitiveness. Most of the countries that have recently joined the European Union have not outlined a reduction in the budget deficit as a priority. On the contrary, they temporarily resorted to a larger, but sustainable deficit policy by investing public funds in development projects that guarantee the possibility of returning funds. In doing so, they resolutely opposed the attempts of a restrictive approach as advocated by both the European Union and the IMF. For example, the Czech Republic entered the European Union with a budget deficit of 9.5% of GDP, Hungary with a deficit of 6% of GDP. The problem of balancing fiscal incomes and expenditures and the countries left for the next stage when it will be necessary to meet the Mastricht criteria that determine the conditions for entry into the European Monetary Union, therefore, for the introduction of the euro and certainly not for joining the European Union as some of the Government would like to present it today. As shown by the practice and theory of integration, the benefits of integration are allocated among the integration members depending on the level of preparation of the member for the integration and achievement of the level and quality of its economic structure, efficiency and competitiveness. Therefore, the period prior to accession to the Union itself is particularly sensitive in the development sense and will be decisive and decisive for the future position and level of benefit that Croatia will benefit from from membership in the Union in the long term. This pre-accession period should simply not be implemented under restrictive development policy conditions. I'd like to point out one particular question in this whole IMF relationship. Building roads and transport infrastructure means building a country. The former government knew that very well and acted accordingly. Does this government think that the creation of the Croatian state is definitely over and that nothing more needs to be done to make it better, more developed and stable. Should we give up the role of state in the construction of transport infrastructure, then, in the construction of the state and resort to tight, fiscal calculations which are a contribution and the commitment of the state in this area to investment from limited public enterprises. I'm sure we don't need to speak up or say the right answer to these questions at all. For the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union, the issue of a Memorandum and an agreement with the IMF is twice as significant. On the one hand, the content of this Memorandum indicates that its application will give Croatia far greater problems in meeting the economic criteria for membership, especially when it comes to creating an efficient and competitive economy, rather than having them in terms of implementing a different, more open and growth-oriented economic policy. Simply put, a much better ticket for the European Union would be a high economic growth of 6.7% than the low budget deficit that this "stand by" arrangement advocates. And therefore, this agreement with the IMF directly makes it difficult, slows down, extends and threatens the approximation and adaptation of Croatia's economic standards. On the other hand, the way the agreement with the IMF is concluded points to the government's willingness and willingness to accept, without sufficient arguments and negotiating ambitions, and perhaps without sufficient negotiating skills and experience, already the initial demands of international partners, which is certainly not a good sign before very demanding negotiations on Croatia's accession to the European Union. In the end, we come up with another big problem. The way the government negotiated and concluded a "stand by" arrangement with the IMF. While there may still be room for political and less professional competition on whether the content of the Memorandum could have looked different and better, for the way the Memorandum and the agreement with the IMF was concluded, there is no longer any valid justification. The Parliament's conclusion of March 20, 2002, was reached, with a staunch advocate of the opposition at the time, clear and impossible to find any justification for its disrespect. The government had previously had to report its intentions to the Croatian Parliament and it was not allowed to sign the arrangement with the IMF before the debate was held in the Croatian Parliament. What about now that the government has shown a marked unwillingness to respect the constitutional position, authority and dignity of the highest representative body? The issue of trust in a government that has no confidence in Parliament is being imposed in itself. The question also arises: Is this House of the High and most of its elected MPs ready to move through the demeaning of its constitutional authority and position? What is more important to the MPs, their party or constitutional position? I leave it to each of us MPs to decide on their own conscience what kind of reaction Parliament may have to the unequivocal violation of the conclusions and will of the legislative authority by the executive authority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22926	I thank you for 40 seconds of saving time. And now on behalf of the government, Mr. Minister Ivan Schuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22927	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well very strangely, I don't know which time tonight, that 4 and a half percent deficit in 2003 was satisfactory, and the 4 and a half percent deficit in 2004 was limiting. The 2004 budget compared to 2003 is already slightly less than 4 billion. They're incredible math. And as for the last "stand by" arrangement, the mission never wrote the third final report and filed it... For the simple reason that performance criteria have not been implemented and BOR officially following the submission of the final report and mission should be determined that the "stand by" arrangement is completed. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Unfortunately with this "stand by" arrangement not made, the Commission has never submitted a final report, BOR never found that the "stand by" arrangement was completed and he was simply released for the reason that this government agreed to this "stand by" arrangement. Therefore, it cannot be said that the last "stand by" arrangement has been concluded. And Mr. Linic,... What? ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] No, it's not true. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Well, look, you can say whatever you want. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] You guys have a theory of your own all the time. In order for the "stand by" arrangement to end the Mission must submit a final report, the BOR must adopt this and must conclude that the "stand by" arrangement is complete. It's a technique. So, we can fight all we want now. This "stand by" arrangement was not done because performance criteria were not implemented and please be nice. So we can talk whatever we want, but obviously this just points to the essence of tonight's debate. Notoral facts where BOR hasn't concluded the "stand by" arrangement, we claim it's over. But I am impressed by Mr. Mimica's evolution. From HDZ, from SDP to some third government.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22928	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Mimica is right, so what are we going to object to? Now, it's like 19th, and I have to say as one that's not SDP is Mr. Jandrokovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22929	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs. It seems to me that everything has been said and especially now after this last debate by Minister Shuker. I think it's clear to everyone whose side the arguments are on and whose side the truth is on. It's just amazing to me what the SDP colleagues' energy is trying to avoid arguments that don't contribute to their government. But obviously it's an impossible mission that best shows that none of your former coalition partners are here. It's probably how they show you how much they care about your arguments and how they feel about your arguments. And I'll just say briefly that in the Memorandum it's been defined that the government begins its mandate with a heavy burden from the past. This burden has been defined as a large and inefficient public sector, a high fiscal deficit and foreign debt, which has reached a high level that puts the Republic of Croatia at high risk. So that's the legacy of the former government and we all probably agree, I don't think there's anything controversial about it. The third chapter says that accession to the cause and mitigation of this burden is crucial for the health of the economy and for the immediate and successful entry into the European Union, which is the most important strategic objective. The Government and the Croatian National Bank, with the support of the International Monetary Fund, co-operated in the development of a programme of economic policy which has two main objectives and defined that it is a short-term return to public finances in Croatia and limit the vulnerability caused by the high deficit on the current balance of payments account and burdening foreign debt and to modernise and reduce the role of the state in the medium term, improve the activity of the private sector and prepare Croatia to be competitive in the European Union. So we have an identified condition and we have defined goals. These goals also lead to defined policies already several times today by Minister Schuker. Today in Dnevnik we heard that professional circles also confirm that such a memo is only possible and that it corresponds to the current overall state in the Republic of Croatia. Since it is already too late and since everything has already been said I will not repeat anything but will conclude that the memorandum is the same as the response to the existing state of affairs that it does not stop growth and development but rather creates a prerequisite for Croatia to become a regulated country of the future member of the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22930	Thank you very much. There's one correction to an incorrect quote and one replica. First, Mr. Slavko Linić, please choose the correction of the incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22931	I am correcting my colleague, Mr Jandrokovic, who noted that the memorandum begins with the negatives as a series of structural problems, the debt is not true, you forgot point 1 which speaks of market economy, traditions, growth, low inflation, but also that all of these are the elements for which the reception for the EU's bid was decided.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22932	Thank you. Here's a replica of Mrs. Darling Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22933	I won't use much time, very short. There are no SDP coalition partners as much as I can see from HDZ coalition partners in this debate but the entry into the European Union has several conditions I will list two or three. It is necessary to prepare a common society, so it is necessary to have a good judiciary, a good economy. Human rights should be respected, etc. It is necessary to harmonise domestic legislation with European Union legislation. Let us count the agendas of the current sessions in this term as much as we have brought this law into line with the EU legislation in the programme that we have come under the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, and you will see that there have been 16 numbers and letters in these nine months.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22934	Thank you very much. The answer to Mr. Jandrokovic's line is here.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22935	In short, the fact is that there are no coalition partners, but probably people didn't want to waste time on this political debate that we have on the other side of the assembly. There's a coalition partner.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22936	Thank you very much. Let's move on, we're back as the 20th Mr. Miroslav Korenik.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22937	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary. By signing this Memorandum, the government has shown above all that it is irresponsible and that it does not respect the Croatian Parliament's institution. I remember and by preparing for this session I read the report from the Croatian Parliament when it was on the other side of this hall came the excerpts and wishes and demands that before each signing of the memorandum must come and discuss in the Croatian Parliament. Interestingly, those who asked for it suddenly forgot it. In this lies the irresponsibility and disrespect of the Croatian Parliament's institutions would still be understandable if it were happening at times when the Croatian Parliament did not take part but it was occupied by respected gentlemen and this delay shows that something is certainly hiding. On the other hand, and the incompetence of this government is evident in stopping even before signing this memorandum of some significant projects in this country. I'll look back at a few of them. Croatian railways wanted me to admit it or not, which is the ability to negotiate and negotiate, and that's what you once and in the previous Parliament's meeting blamed us for betraying national interests, there was around The Hague and around the fishing area, so you took over all of this and you were even more radical than the former Governments ever were. As for Croatian railways, the most significant projects in the Croatian railways have been stopped in the past year for almost a year. Whether I want to admit it or not, Croatia must develop its transport infrastructure because of its geographical position. Railways are certainly one of the major resources of this country, especially since we have Adriatic ports and ports on the Sava and Danube rivers which are important because of the position of Croatia but also because of our imports and exports and because of transit goods. At the same time we have to admit that in the Croatian railways... we missed and there we have abolished the clause of the railway law that 30 June is given for the development of Croatian railways, let us not forget that for almost 50 years in these areas Croatian railways bought fuel and gave money for the development of other roads above all road infrastructures. What is inherited also means by the previous government because of the war in which the Croatian railways are. 50% of all tow and transport capacities have been destroyed, we know that the infrastructure was also in desperate condition. On 1 January 2006, due to the stabilisation process, Croatia's railways also go into further reform and on our railways, except that the infrastructure will be state-owned in privatisation travel and freight transport. Unfortunately, because of this reduction in financial resources, because of this arrangement with the Monetary Fund, we come to the conclusion that there is no construction of new passenger capacities, here I mean first of all cars, no new freight wagons and all those who were ordered to be built in Đura Đaković in Gredel, Čakovec, are simply the programmes most recently hitched. It's about a few thousand jobs that are threatened to be shut down. The ability of management in these companies will find something to do, however, the start of the Croatian Railways before privatisation will be such that it will simply not be competitive and let's not be surprised that our Croatian railways will be operators in Bosnia and Herzegovina and Serbia after privatisation, we will get very likely foreign operators on the Croatian railways. That's one side of the medal. The other side of the medal is that new railways should also be built, the modernisation of the railways, I'm just asking you and what the Slavons will say from Osijek to Vinkovci, at this time it should be done by it, respected gentlemen I listen to you, be polite and listen to me, because of the arrangement with the monetary fund that railroad will be late for at least a year. It was supposed to be finished at this time and Vinkovci and Vinkovci pupils and students were supposed to drive towards Osijek at the university. How's the road construction situation? It's also hitchhiking. I can ask the question, Mr. Minister, because the reason for this arrangement with the Monetary Fund, where it is said that less will be invested in road borders and that the Croatian government still does not have a programme to build and modernise Croatian roads for the next four years? What's the reason? Everything that's done, you announce that there's going to be a highway to Sisak, it has to be written in some kind of strategic document. I'm afraid not. I have to ask a question, and how does it intend to fix an additional pensioner standard? We were talking at the big door about how the pensioners got a raise. It's not an increase in pensions, it's that legal harmonisation that goes twice a year. If it's said that in this memo that's signed, that it's going to go faster in privatisation, they can only ask a question, they're promised shares to the defenders, they're promised shares in the funds and for the pensioners, where did these money come from? This too shows the inability of the Croatian government, as it determines the lives of Croatian citizens for the next three, four years. And as much as Mr. Secretary claims there won't be a cancellation of the zero VAT rate, lively, so see. You also spoke and made a decision, although we warned that VAT should not be reduced, so you eventually reduced it under pressure from the outside. And this shows that this government has no economic policy, which is best said by both the businessmen and the Welsh and other opportunities. After all, since despite the built highway to Varazdin, you should travel for at least an hour. Mr. Vice President, however, my colleagues will, and I ask them to excuse me, because for saving in the Croatian Parliament I travel daily, therefore, I will leave the Croatian Parliament after this debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22938	Thank you very much, of course. Anyone can leave whenever they want. No one's holding anyone. We have three corrections to the incorrect quote, and make sure they're correct, otherwise the warning will come immediately. Mr. Tomljanović.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22939	A respected colleague said it was not an opinion, but a factual claim, road construction is being halted. Stopping means stopping, interrupting, not investing at all. That's not true. The road construction doesn't stop or build highways, you just interpret certain elements in the agreement that suit you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22940	Thank you very much. On the border of Jure Bitunjac, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22941	Well, I'll do it, Mr. President. I'm sorry. Mr. Korenika, exactly what his colleague Tomljanovic said, was to hitchhike the construction of the highway. My colleague Korenick, you obviously and your colleagues, I'd say I apologize for this expression that I'm going to say, you're sitting in your ears, you're not listening to what the minister said, on the one hand. And on the other hand, these days there's a contest for the Dupolje-Ploče highway. According to what you're talking about, I don't really know.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22942	If someone doesn't hear something, it doesn't mean they're sitting on their ears. He can't hear, he can't listen. Third Mr. Jandrokovic, go ahead. Correction of an incorrect allegation.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22943	It is not true what Mr. Korenik said that the government did not develop a road construction programme for the next period. As far as I know, he's coming to the next session and here to the Parliament. Until then, the program is in effect, which is also valid for this year. You know that very well. And I'm sure you'll be very happy, because there are a lot of projects that will be implemented.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22944	Thank you very much. Now he has the word Mr. Slavko Linic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22945	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. On behalf of the Club, I was talking about the development and attitudes of the development club. I will personally turn to the problems of daily life for which here we can remain to read one thing, to read another, but what is most important we simply want to talk about the Government's programme. About the government's programme and economic and financial. And that makes it impossible for us. Three months, then we insist. So we're saying we need the government's opinion. Did the government's opinion come up? It's not. None of us have seen him. No one. But that was the reason we didn't discuss him before. Today, instead of discussing this policy, we have lessons from the past, which we can accept. You know. Anyone who's unhappy with a program like this is trying to justify himself. But the question remains, that we here in the Parliament try to speak, what does this mean for everyday life? When we talk about everyday life, then we need to understand that the workplace must be one of the most important. Do we define the safety of this job with this program? We say, we don't see that security. I'm glad you're sure you can see that. But you know, the finding that there is no more and that there will be a significant reduction in the support of subsidies and guarantees. So I'm just asking, do we know what the fate of large food complexes, which are not yet privatized, have a lot of problems, and what is the fate of shipbuilding? Shipyards and Pula and May 3rd and BrodoTrogira and BrodoSplit, do we know if we can read it out of this? You're saying, there's no danger, the rest of us who know that the exchange rate is down, that all the contracts are in dollars, that the growing number of ships that have been contracted, that we need that shipbuilding for foreign exchange, and we're asking ourselves, what are we going to do with the enormous losses in the shipyards? how are we going to finance them, how are we going to cover them, how are we going to provide new ships financially? But of course what are we going to do with subsidies? Because without these subsidies, there's no end to the program. How many thousand jobs is that? How many thousand jobs is that? We don't care, because it's the whole coast. But we don't care about food complexes either. You know, PIC won't be no Vrbovec. He remained troubled, not implemented until the end of the structure, not fought for the market, and a huge number of people. Capacity to be completed, modernised, so that it can simply please and be competitive even in the Croatian tourist area. What about him? How do you finish funding? How to secure jobs? How do you simply cover the dubiosis that are reportedly present? We can continue this way with Borov, we can continue with Vupik, and Belje from Vukovar. Yeah, that's what we're interested in. and everyday life, because we know these problems, and here the very clear findings written in us are causing a chill. And we want some answers, we want to discuss it. And that's why we're politicians, thank you for your adjectives. Thank you. Only when there are problems in the shipyards will we tell if it's politics. I don't think it's politics. That's what we're really interested in. Because it's not done here. It's not finished. You know, we're also interested in the state of rail maintenance, road maintenance in Jadrolinia, we're interested. The reduction of subsidies we can interpret. These are the blows that will be present in the railroad, in the Adriatic. They enjoy special status and special subsidies and we don't care if we don't know what that means. At the same time we have a price reduction that we welcome but it's the opposite of what's written here, it's the opposite. This is where the minister calls us. You promised 4.5% of the deficit last year. So imagine, the prices of Jadrolinia are decreasing only 15 days ago and it's written here that it's not going to happen. It's written in this document. Why? So because the price reduction means subsidies, the increase in subsidies, and here it says the opposite. Or we'll bring Jadrolini back into losses like two thousand and 99, respectively. These are the questions we want to talk about. The maintenance of railways, that there will be huge problems, there will be really huge problems, and we don't care what safety is on the railway, which is with workers, whether they get their salary because every municipality, every city, every county wants organised passenger transport in the railway. He will, he doesn't want to cut it, he wants to increase it, but the question remains how to cover it with subsidies. So we're talking no more about development now. Now we're talking about everyday life. There's no answer in this program. It remains that everyone concludes theirs, and therefore we conclude, not for political reasons, but for what was 99th and found 99th, but for what four years the former government tortured. That's why it's very important to us what it says here. If we're going to talk about roads, roads that didn't exist in '99, it didn't exist. Special funds are given to strengthen the maintenance of Croatian roads because it has always been the biggest complaint of the European Union, and of the World Bank, and of the European banks for development we do not maintain the road and, yes, it is true, it is invested in maintenance. What happens tomorrow, what happens? We don't know, we're afraid. It says here it's all going to come back under the state cap. Do you know what that means? A battle between the ministries who will win, who won't win, who can invest. Yeah, and that's disturbing, but you know the number of dead people on the roads we attribute to alcohol and maybe the maintenance of roads was. Therefore, it is important for us to discuss these topics as well. Zero rate. We often mention products here, but part of us knows what else is the problem. A zero rate on organised tourism that is not accepted, which is Europe's direct competition, is a zero rate on organised tourism. Whether it's a message, whether it might be lifted, whether it'll end. Do we have answers, do you have answers? You don't. Yeah, we're all proud of the tourist season, we'll all brag about the tourist season, but next year we're offering a zero rate because in this agreement, zero is going to be reduced on some things. Is it tourism and organised tourism? Do you have an answer? I don't have one. I can guess. I'm afraid it won't exist and it'll be lifted but it won't be between the feet. And of course, in today's debate, there's something special that's bothering me. It's certainly my colleague's debate at the Retirement Party where this programme of government and the former government is placed in the same basket. In this one, it says it will ask for IMF advice and the past government has imposed 2.5 billion annual returns on pensioners permanently and imposed the implementation of small pension laws after the end of 2000. Probably the money that was secured in the last stand by and promises in this one have the same value for Mr. Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22946	Thank you very much. Here, we're already 21 MPs. Here, maybe it doesn't matter to someone, but here's what I just did. There are 36 HDZ, 9 SDP and 1 DC. It shows in the House how much anyone shows interest in this debate. Unfortunately, I have to say it. Now the word has Mr. Representative Frano Piploic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22947	Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and fellow MPs, Mr. Secretary! Now you're probably all wondering why I stayed here till the end of this tiny hour. I'll be honest with you now. From my fellow SDP counterparts, I learned that there could be a coalition between the SDP and HDZ in these small hours, so I stayed as a witness that this would not happen or if I came to testify. Okay, I have to start a little bit like this in these late hours in a funny way. Actually, everything seems kind of funny to me. So I think you all remember from the Bible that scene when Christ was hanging on the Cross and on the left and right he had two... There was a mob around here that cheered clearly for Christ to go through with as much trouble as possible. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And then at one point Christ says, "Dad, forgive them because they don't know what they're doing.". It seems to me that this sentence would fit nicely for a debate like this that started at four o'clock, here's if God were to continue the next day. A lot of larpurlatism, a debate that is purposeful to itself, seems to me that we could have gone better, easier and cheaper that colleagues from the SDP had invited their colleagues from HDZ for one lunch but at Mr. Cacic's expense, let's say that he paid for it and that you were all satisfied. I don't know, maybe I'll say one more sentence, and that's part of my profession. I haven't read or seen such a form of sadomasochism in a long time where people are actually setting themselves up in some way, playing false parliamentaryism. He's allowed to do business, though, but I don't know what he wants to do and he wants to do it. If we are actually so exhausted, we will clearly overcome the person who has stronger nerves and who has probably a healthier organism. Now, we'll see who he's gonna be after all. Here, 20 and a few days as long as this session has been held on several occasions, the dissatisfaction shown here because the point is not put on the agenda. And here she comes at last, though she's not on television, but I think these videos can be obtained and that whoever wants to be on TV can offer it to TV and pay nicely for TV and Croatian citizens will see it fine but about the cost of the person of interest. I believe that Croatian citizens have no interest in this debate, especially in this way as this debate is being held here. An observer who may not know enough about the relationship between political parties will simply take this as a repayment of debt. The current government, or current parliamentary representatives who were formerly members of the government, are now paying back the debt nicely to the current government. It's a pink pong game going left, going right and so sudden. And I personally experience all this because for the first time I am in the Croatian Parliament as a kind of obstruction. I can't help but feel that this is an obstruction of the Croatian Parliament. And my brother, if someone in mourning is a time of mourning, your father and mother die, you know black is worn out for about a month, someone maybe half a year, but if you lose an election it complains for two three days and you don't have to complain for so long months. Let's just say as a sociologist, I've seen a lot of sentences here that have been made during the debate of words actually, expressed and that fall within the realm of the theory of fear. Fear theory knows everyone well who knows social sciences what the role of these theories is.And here these theories are also presented, and the happiness of God that Croatian people and Croatian citizens have not come to their ears. Because there was an opportunity for fear here that tried to scare Croatian constructions with the current Croatian government. It is more frightening for those who lost the election, so the people were afraid of those who lost the election, so they trusted the current Croatian government. Who will win the next election if this one doesn't rule well then will fear this current government and give it to another government. I mean, I wanted to make a little fun of all of this, and I didn't want to go back nice to Carl Marks, who would now come back here and say what he was saying about this parliamentary struggle of parliamentaryism, where they just roll words like the one where... That's how you spend it here. [[/the speaker doesn't understand.]] What we have now done is as if we were doing something important and significant. There's so much I wouldn't do anymore. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22948	Correction of the incorrect allegation, the respected representative Marin Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22949	It is an incorrect allegation that Croatian television is not transferring this session. It's still passed on to good luck, you don't know because you would have otherwise spoken transmissions is HR Plus and I assure you that such a speech you've given here at least in three terms I've never heard of. And I am very confident that your party will strengthen after your pledoaje. Very. And otherwise the Croatian public is watching this. Good luck.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22950	Replica esteemed representative Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22951	It is difficult not to get up with a replica to discuss my colleague, Piplovic, for the simple reason that the DCA in 2002 insisted that serious discussions be conducted on the subject of the government's document on economic policy and financial policy. In this, the HDZ Club supported them significantly. Thanks to the initiative of their club, the Croatian Parliament has simply informed the government that it is unacceptable to enter into arrangements with the IMF if the memorandum is not discussed in the Parliament. Therefore, I must say that the policy of DC and what we have heard from Piplovic is significantly different from my colleague. Because it turns out that discussing this document today is this same club, or I'd say a representative from that club, I think it's a simple waste of time of fatigue, masochism and everything else that's hard to agree with. I think economic and financial governments are important not to us, not to see us. It's about trying to send messages to the citizens. I don't want to argue that this policy is the government and that it can be the same. Let the citizen choose her, because we are to send policies. And that's what we want to do. So there's a pleasant surprise, because if your club thought otherwise maybe today you wouldn't be talking about it. Maybe not.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22952	Another replica, the esteemed representative of Dragica Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22953	So I'm actually surprised and frustrated by this debate about a document that determines the future of the country over the next 20 months. It seems to me that it is an unworthy debate of a parliamentary representative especially members of the ruling coalition. And counterpart Linic said the parliament's conclusion that the government must submit this document to parliament has initiated the DCA's request to discuss the previous memorandum. And at the initiation of opposition parties, he was voted by the will of the majority then to this conclusion. The fact that this document is being discussed by the strongest ruling party and the strongest opposition party is, in fact, normal because it is talking about the important issues of Croatia's development and citizens' standards in future times. I'm really happy that the citizens had a chance to hear this argument of yours.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22954	Reply to the replica, respected representative Frano Piploić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22955	Dear colleague Zgrebec, I don't know what's unworthy here I've expressed my opinion. And I think I've made an argument. ... You could ask if something was unworthy when your colleagues here one holding the exhibit then three replicating. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Well, it's a play, it's embarrassing, it has nothing to do with parliament. And what's the point of parliamentaryism. I'm a Croatian citizen here. They pay here what we do. And you need to be responsible for them for what they're doing. You've offered some argument that's not right here, you've offered some solution that we'll all go for. Well, there's no 45 million of us, there's 5 million of us. We have to start looking at things differently once. That was the point of my debate, and I have the right to be dissatisfied and I deliberately stayed and I took part in this debate for the first time. I saw what it looked like in the literature. And it's a dear colleague that you'll find in all the serious political, sociological literature that I've told you. If you don't understand that language, please borrow some literature, and you'll see it's all in there. If that's what's in it, then this really isn't an unworthy debate and an unquality debate that I've brought here.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22956	Your Honor, Commander Vlado Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22957	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister, gentlemen of the National Bank. Fellow MPs, here are eight hours already in the next day we listen to debates on this subject and, of course, after all that has been said to man there is no other thing but to wonder what is really the purpose of such a debate and conversation. And I'd be happy if it were those noble goals we're sworn to, but here it seems to me it's something else. Try to prove it here that the government has no policy whatsoever that there is no development, no view of the future which, of course, is simply not true. Of course, this debate is based on a memorandum on economic financial policy on the basis of an agreement document with the International Monetary Focal. But here, of course, there was more to it than that. The documents that we've had here, the earlier ones and this latest ones, are similar in the good part. But what matters is that this is much more real, and this is certainly more real. And that's what time will tell. But this also shows that the previous stage by arrangement has not been implemented to the end and that most of the criteria in it are not met. From the debate, it also seems to me that the SDP would like the HDZ to implement the SDP policy. It is impossible, the SDP has its own policy, HDZ has won elections in its policy, on its promises, on its programmes, as I once said earlier tonight, it is the voters who will, at the end of one term, assess who was right in the next election. And Prime Minister Sanader's government has really started its mandate with the heavy burden of the past period, with an inefficient public sector, where the share of public spending in gross social product is much higher than in other countries with a similar level of development, with too much fiscal deficit and with high country debt, both externally and internally. The fact is that Croatia needs growth. Croatia, however, needs to grow on sustainable foundations. In the past few years, Croatia has had relatively high growth rates, but this growth has stemmed from major investment by the state in infrastructure and it would not be bad if these sources of funding were not burdened by some future revenues, on the burden of some future budgets, and so on in 2004. Foreign borrowing has been said a great deal, mostly in the explanation of the Minister of Finance, and it is also visible in these documents. This growth has also been accelerated by unrealistic personal consumption and expansion of bank loans to the population who are very, very much in charge at this time. Of course, and this is one of the reasons why budget financing must gradually turn to domestic sources. This would reduce the country's exposure to exchange rate risk, will trigger the development of the domestic capital market and likely absorb the surplus liquid assets in the private sector that is now immobilised. In an agreement with the International Monetary Fund, the government has committed itself to a slightly lower growth rate, however, it is a rate that is certainly feasible and sustainable. On the other hand, the growth rates themselves are becoming more difficult and predictable, because they depend on many services and on tourism that depend less and less on us, and increasingly on supply and demand that we do not have much influence on. Of course, in all these discussions it would be good to reach a consensus. Consensus on the objectives, consensus on the methods and ways of achieving these goals, but I think tonight's debate shows that this consensus cannot be reached. I'd like to try to make that clear. It seems to me that the former government has brought the state to the brink of a break-in and is now looking for a new government to take a decisive step forward. Of course, it cannot be agreed to, so it takes determination to implement the program of those who carry the burden of responsibility. I am convinced that this government led by Prime Minister Sanader to these documents that we are discussing and doing today, and I am sure that both the next period and the activities will show it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22958	Thank you. Replica. Dear Representative Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22959	He says counterpart Jelkovac would like the SDP to run the SDP policy. We wouldn't want to, colleague, but it would be good if you ran a policy similar to that led by the former Croatian government, because then growth would be more economically and some other things would be better than they are now. We'll just stay a little longer if you'll distract me. And you say HDZ got power on a different program. No, I don't. HDZ has received power on the guaranteed card, because it has promised to cut taxes, increase living standards, and now that the programme is quite different, taxes are now increasing, standards are being cut, some tax cuts are being abolished, or certain tax breaks are being announced, if that were what you said in the election campaign, the question is whether voters would then vote for you. If you had then said that you would be delivering Croatian generals to The Hague on the current tape, the question is whether those voters who voted for you would have cast a vote on you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22960	Replication response, distinguished representative Vlado Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22961	A colleague, of course, has the right to his own opinion, but the promises made in the guaranteed card come true, and in the end it will be shown, at the end of the game is the result. And if we ran, as you said, your policy, then we'd end up in that break-in I was talking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22962	Honorable representative of Pearl Perman.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22963	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'd like to begin my discussion with the finding that Mr. Schucker mentioned in almost every pay phone exit last stand by arrangement and his July supplement last year. But last stand by arrangement is not the subject of this debate. The topic is this latest since 4 August of this year. The topic is also why the arrangement was not discussed in the Assembly, and it had to be before the signing. We haven't heard the answer to that yet. Finally, the HDZ in the pre-election campaign made it clear, let's start Croatia. Criticising the past government and announcing in its guarantee card a better future, but there was no talking about launching Croatia if there are no debts, if there is no deficit, if there is not, if not, if there is not, etc. It's just the other way around, that he's going to run it. So, unconditionally. So why now are you crying and accusing the former government? She was the way she was with all the mistakes, the citizens sanctioned her in the election and she's the past. Your government is present and do not look past for an alibi for your own ignorance and failure. And now a few words about the Memorial itself. The 11th sentence mentions some permanent measures involving budget and budget rebalancing, and says: There is no real increase in wage mass, which is to be achieved despite higher payouts due to the ongoing rationalisation of the defence sector. It means that the salaries will be reduced objectively or the number of employees will be reduced, given the above-mentioned higher payouts in the defence sector. Furthermore, I quote: "A savings of approximately 700 million kuna that will be achieved by returning spending on building highways and roads to a more reasonable level". It means that there are no new investments in highways or the continuation of their construction and which is a more reasonable level at all. Furthermore, the reduction of the legal limit for the borrowing of the local state from 3% to 2% of the annual income from the previous year. What does that mean? It means that units of local self-government will not be able to implement many projects from their programmes due to restrictions on the ability to raise loans. Furthermore, measures to improve the consummation of spending in the health sector and to prevent the re-emergence of large unpaid hospital obligations, in particular the introduction and planning of expenditure and monthly hospital reporting, the restriction of the number of prescriptions by doctor who refunds HZZO, the introduction of public procurement systems for the purchase of the most expensive medicines and the determination of prices of domestic medicines according to the average of 5 Member States of the European Union at the lowest cost. So this measure further limits patients' rights as well as further administration and development of red tape. Furthermore, an additional revenue of €200 million from the increase in excise duty on cars and tobacco that will enter into force, i.e. on 15 July. This measure is an additional tax burden on citizens with very questionable final effects. Finally, the point is said, it envisions the reintroduction of the Financial Police, thus improving compliance with the tax rules and improving the collection, although the greatest effect will be felt only in 2005. Perhaps this measure will really update the tax collection. Maybe. Although very questionable, the financial police institution itself will additionally burden the state budget and thus increase spending. Furthermore, point 12 announces an increase in the participation of medical services and medicinal products, a reduction in the number of patients exempt from participation and the introduction of changes in supplementary health insurance, in order to reduce expenditure. Which means once again, the additional burden on citizens of particular patients who must, I repeat, consume medicines and use medical services because of their own health, not because of any luxury. The restrictions mentioned so far are also referred to in point 13 and are further specified. Point 14. talks about the start of the tax reform process. It is said to be considered, I quote: "is considering a number of changes and then the suspensions are specified, some exemptions from the personal income tax and reductions in the number of goods subject to a zero VAT rate". If we know that this applies to bread and milk, it is clear that it is a new tax burden on citizens, and it is precisely the poorest ones. Points 17 and 25 are preparing new sales of the most important and valuable Croatian state, i.e. public enterprises. So mentioned Jadrolinija, Croatian Forests, INA, Croatian Telecom, Croatia Banka, Croatia Insurance and Croatian Post Office Bank. I wonder, how long will it go with the sale of Croatian property? I guess until it's just a coat of arms, a flag and an anthem. Or maybe he's planning on selling them, too. With this perspective, it might be better. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22964	Thank you very much. The Honorable Representative of the Shima Rifle.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22965	... sold out anyway. [[Specially enabled.]] Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. Here, tonight was supposed to be a debate about the last "stand by" arrangement, and actually the direct cause was supposed to be some kind of procedural error and miss, but it came out in something different and a man could calmly say, "Well, my God, who here has lost the election?". What exactly is a loser holding a lesson tonight? We have heard so much insult to us here, but also to the Croatian public that man cannot understand so much insult in this House. The question is, of course, why? Through stories already told at the minister's expense, that a thousand-placed, repeated lie becomes true, I answer to Mr. Linic that from his circle not a thousand but perhaps even a few thousand tonight the truth has been tried to make it true. But Croatian citizens know very well who is who and that story will not pass as the truth. About the "stand by" arrangement itself tonight after all this, although I've really tried and thought exclusively professionally to talk, but I've been here for so many months now and so many insults a man can't stand anymore. We'll leave this for another day. We will discuss this when the Annual Report of the CNB for the past year, in which most of the stories of this story are repeated and about this wonderful and ideal economy management, of course in the past four years. Now, how tonight is the whole time he's trying to actually accuse the current government, the prime minister, of all together not knowing where he's going. I will try very briefly to remind that conscience as spoken at the end of November 2000, and about the time this government now has. It's somewhere around here, and how economic parameters, development, social development, the resignation of the previous government, and everything that's been going on, that I don't repeat the story every night from television, arrest and detain. We will not repeat this because it is indeed a period for us and I believe that it will never happen again in the Croatian state. Now, the story of what it looked like, these are the official statements of Mr. Minister of the time who personally gave the interview, and there are some more interesting here, and we'll try very briefly to say only a few of these specifics that are trying to build an attack tonight. Not everything, of course, because it's impossible. First, when it comes to the IMF, then the minister, then, after 11 months or 10 months of taking over power, anyway, or somewhere around here, says about the negotiation that was reached at the time, says "balances are between possible and necessary". That's what happened back then. Today it's not worth it, of course, because there are other times today. When he's talking about selling or selling, then he says the following. The end, so, November 2000. At the top of the mountain, he says that the income of 12 and a half billion kuna next year, he thinks of 2001, "we'll make it through the privatisation of HT, part of the energy," look at the wonders. That's when he talks about the energy part. An official statement, meaning HEP and the others. Then Croatia and Dubrovnik banks, and Croatia insurance. And tonight we're going to have a story about the sale of the state, and now we've heard a message that we're going to sell out the coat of arms and the flag. We're still building it, and we're gonna save it more than our lives. Gentlemen, they continue to say "that without solving the problems they have encountered", he says, "and without creating conditions for the spread of entrepreneurship without attracting foreign capital it is not possible to launch development". How do we comment differently tonight? So we forgot this. Well, I tried to get some of that out of the archives and see what it looked like. Also for privatisation, it is said explicitly that it will join privatisation of the energy sector. So, achieved by the IMF agreement. Furthermore, there will also be an end to privatisation. I'll copy that if you're not informed. It's the end of November 200. It's also said at the end that the IMF's homes he gave put our numbers and ours, our fate, are actually translated. The solutions offered in the end were even a speech on the course, so it was trying, of course, to act politically rather than to the economic instrumentaries on the course. There were speeches and about possible economic programs then and it will be the last one here because it's impossible to mention everything, and there's time. They say "economic analysts from around President Mesic object to Minister of Finance Mati Church that the projection of the three-year budget", which we heard about tonight, I mean the following projections, "set it up as a mere means of consumption, not as an instrument of development, and that it only offers figures, but not how it will realise them". And the growth rate advocated by the Church, or the government of that time, also had a sharp criticism because slow growth, according to its economic critics, will not get the country out of the crisis. It is true that this government likes to throw away projections, a weak point of government forecasts are considered its forecasts by 2003, etc. These are official reports at the time, or it's an interview. Now that we see all this together, when we hear this story tonight, this crying, then once again I repeat who won and who lost the election. If the citizens believed you, if you hadn't cheated on them then you'd have gone differently, but I won't be socialist either, I won't really want to insult the party, and look at the wonders of 45th to this day, you'll cut the workers' rights with everything that follows and sign it at the stand by the arrangement and spend it and now you're telling us that these same poor people that they've done to the poor will be affected from now on, so I guess they're not dying twice if it were true. I don't want the elements, I repeat, but the stories about all the privatisations and I'm going to set up some stories about privatisations and some individual ones in the next few days. Where some participated and some participated, we will see stories in a slightly different way. The stories of the sale of the Croatian state and their gold would not have come from the fact that the situation has not been found. I used to joke and say wonders still from socialism passed a law still valid today about wages or tables, and it says that a worker or a pensioner or someone else can't borrow more than a third of his salary. I guess he could survive and he could survive. And our country in the previous year is in debt in one year about $9 billion more than all the transferred debts of the old Yugoslavia, the late Yugoslavia to Croatia all the war and all the exiles we had, I really don't understand that economy. I understand even less when the teachers who taught me the socialist economy are now trying to convince me that what they were talking about is not true. So I really find myself in doubt how to discuss the new market economy and new conditions in the Croatian state. In this I ask the question whether citizens are afraid if HDZ comes to power before the elections itself, Croatia will be isolated, and wonders as soon as the IMF and the Avis come as soon as possible, the arrangement of the IMF that I believe is found inside that it will create a quick way into Europe with all advantages and disadvantages. And if, in the end, there have been countless speeches about respect, or questions and words of honesty, only one question is known who constantly dreams of honesty. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22966	Dear Ensign Ljubo Jurcic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22967	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister, Mr. Deputy Governor of Vice Governor, colleagues and colleagues. Well, for starters, I'd just say that private finances and public finances aren't the same, so I'd say to my colleagues that you couldn't be right about that, but I wouldn't be giving him a lecture about it right now. I learned economics and socialism and capitalism, so that lecture would be a little longer. I will return to my discussion that I have been holding here since the day of the VAT change, so there has been a change in excise duties and there has been one sentence that, because of our entry into the European Union, we need to pursue a 3% deficit and now, in this memorandum on economic and financial policy, the objective of economic policy has been defined and there exactly is a general goal of reducing the budget deficit that will aim to meet these sizes of 3.3, 3.5%. On the other hand, in fact, in this memorandum on economic and financial policy, first of all should be economics, then thought of the real economy, the structure of the economy, the effects of this economy, and then as a consequence of that economy are actually financial indicators. And here in this programme, we've jumped directly to financial indicators, so I'd like it here to be someone who tracks the economy, runs the economy, vice-president maybe the government for the economy than the finance minister who ultimately has to pay all those bills, and these accounts are the consequences of the economy structure, they're less of the government's financial or state structure. What concerns me from the beginning in this situation where Croatia is at this level of development that in fact the Croatian government has denied a strong instrument of economic policy, which is a budget deficit. Ten years ago, we gave up our course as one of the most powerful instruments in monetary policy. The question now arises how will the economic policy holder or the government manage the economy, which, if known to be a member of the World Trade Organisation and that customs are no longer in our hands as an instrument of economic policy, by fixing deficits or by reducing deficits, Croatia's economic policy becomes a hand-and-leg swimmer. Otherwise, the budget deficit may arise on current incomes and expenditures i.e. in the current part of the budget as a difference of current income and expenditure or as a difference of capital income and expenditure on so-called ‘. the capital budget. And it doesn't matter where he picks up. If it appears on the budget of current public revenues and expenditures, then it is much more unacceptable because it means that public debt is used for current consumption and only debts are left to future generations. If it appears in the capital revenue and expenditure budget, then the situation is different. There is a deficit due to the implementation of social capital, the construction of roads infrastructure, railways, energy-enhancing efficiency of agriculture, shipbuilding, machinery building of institutional infrastructure that provides a larger gross domestic product. The increase in social capital also leaves at the disposal of future generations and their burden on these debts is less and it is much more favourable to repay these debts than in the first case when the deficit is used for current consumption. That's why the distinction between these two deficits is very important. All developed countries have used and still use the budget deficit as a development instrument or at least as an instrument to improve the current conukture. For example, Japan's deficit, at a few thousand billion dollars in gross domestic product, their deficit is 7.7%. Those with these deficits build an economy, or economy of the 21st century, the 21st century industry. America has a 3.6% deficit, Germany is going to slip a little above 4%, even if it was the first one to be 3%. In addition, the budget deficit is not a condition of accession to the European Union as well as examples of what we have just heard from our colleague Mimica. Today, the Czech Republic has 6.6, Hungary 5.7, Slovakia 3.6, Poland 4.5, etc. In fact, I wanted to say something about the fiscal policy of the European Union that has two principles. The first principle is the flexibility of fiscal policy in the short term and the second stability in the long term, which is determined by the convergence criteria of the European Monetary Union. The 3 per cent convergence criterion was established on the basis of the assumption that the European, European Union's economy will grow at 3% and since it is financed at 20 years, it is thus calculated that public debt should not exceed 60% of the gross-domestic product of the Member States of the European Monetary Union. About the long term. However, in the short term, flexibility of the budget deficit has been determined and made possible, so that it can be more than 3%. The basic condition to tolerate a larger deficit in the short term is the difference between the gross domestic product being realised and a potentially maximum gross domestic product that can be achieved with existing resources. So, what would be a gross domestic product if all resources were employed. In Croatia, we have infrastructure, unused natural resources, unused industrial capacities, unemployed working population, we have more than a lot of quality education that allows us a much larger gross domestic product than it is now worth. There's a formula for calculating it. According to this formula, Croatia can also have higher budget deficits than they are drawn in this memorandum, meaning no 3.5, no 4, but can have 5.6% and 7%, of course if these deficits are financed by the growth factors of the gross domestic product, or the restructuring of the economy. And here again we miss that first point memo on economic policy. We've got financials. Or restructuring growth factors, etc. It all falls within the economy of the economy, not so much in finance. As a result, it was not necessary to limit the budget deficit and define it as a general objective, but rather to determine it according to the projected growth rate, which should be maximised by employing all the unemployed resources that exist in the Republic of Croatia. When it comes to public debt. I must warn that it should take into account not only the obligations, but also the state property. State assets are assets that stand against liabilities and if the state has them, it is able to settle its obligations more neatly and is less subject to possible financial earthquakes related to deficit financing. The deficit should therefore be used to finance an increase in the value of national assets and national capital, increasing the efficiency and competitiveness of the national economy. This raises the economic base of management and reduces the risk of a potential financial earthquake in the future. This raises the economic base of an economy that cannot replace any private initiative. The budget deficit defined in any way can be covered by three sources. By borrowing the state from the central bank, there is little more difficult for us in the form of direct loans from the Central Bank to the state or by buying state securities, vault records, bonds and the like by the emission institution. This form of funding for the budget deficit is most unfavourable because it directly encourages and bursts inflation on our terms might do so, even if the country's debt would be increased. In certain circumstances such as war and similar situations, the state can not resist such temptation, I note because we had this situation in Croatia in the 1990s. In addition, public debt is used as a powerful means of economic policy on public debt, i.e. buying and selling government securities is based on the most important instrument of monetary policy, an open market policy we may be discussing in the coming days when we talk about the Croatian National Bank's report, which is still not the issue of whether it can be used more significantly in this situation when we have the monetary policy that we have. Secondly, the budget deficit can be financed by borrowing on the domestic financial market in the domestic population, banks and other financial institutions. This is less inflation than that of the National Bank, it does not stop draining funds from the country. But the biggest shortfall in private investment. And the question is, how much of the debt of domestic banks is actually on the domestic market, because when there's less accumulation in the country than consumption, it turns back into an ino debt. And third, if you'll allow one more minute, I'll be done. ... Can I finish? [[speaks off, can't be heard]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22968	Yeah, come on, buddy, finish up, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22969	Here, I mean... my discussion is a little different from previous discussions, so maybe. And the third way of financing the budget deficit is the foreign debt, with the preceding fact that it does not lead to the expropriation of private investments and the lack of... the service of this debt and the possible occurrence of indifference in the foreign case of over-indebtedness. However, public debt does not always have to be recovered within the maturity period but is refinanced, i.e. it is converted into a new debt with the same in the new payment conditions. You need to point out the difference.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22970	Don't point out any more, don't, don't let me have my Rules of Procedure. Ned's Rulesman, I'd be happy to give it to you, but the Rules of Procedure is like that we have to change it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22971	But it's important to everyone. Public debt doesn't have to be...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22972	You'll have to contact someone later on in some form. Now that my colleague's here. Thank you very much. Dear representative Ljubica Brdarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22973	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, the esteemed representatives of the People's Bank, that there's Mistress. As I see it, there is no one after me, I am a careful, well team better, I have listened carefully to all the debates, because the topic that we are talking about is extremely important, I think for us and for all Croatian citizens, so I am surprised by the qualifications of some colleagues as to politics and obstruction which is not true. We also heard that what the SDP was doing yesterday and today was an impossible mission. If that were the case, if it were indeed an impossible mission and the way this memorandum was signed and its contents were as expected, we would have talked about this matter quite safely in a second term and more than two months ago. Unfortunately, that is not the case and it is one of our main objections. I do not understand why such a boast of Croatia's government, and not only the HDZ Government, would sign an agreement without consulting the Parliament on what we heard as we heard initiated by HDZ and DC was mandatory. Especially since there is a need for a majority in the House to vote without opinions, the opposition's proposal should vote what it feels is necessary. No one challenges the Croatian government's right to sign any documents and contracts it has been elected legally through has the full right and responsibility to do so, but should also respect the procedure. Someone said they didn't see any reason to strain themselves so much on the issues of procedure. Gentlemen, democracy is a procedure, and we have to face it, we have to get used to it and respect each other and when we think differently. As regards our government's declared objectives, such as tax cuts, economic growth, employment growth, living standards, membership in the European Union and NATO, there is a consensus. No one in this House can be against it. We just differ in ways to reach these goals. And we think signing this memo is a way that doesn't lead to it. I know that many people don't like to hear different opinions, we haven't learned about it, we've lived for a long time in a party system democracy is something new for us, it's something that we care and develop, it's a process, and it's no wonder that we now suffer from child diseases like measles, so gentlemen learn to listen and respect and when we're not happy with what others say. And we, with full right because this right is given to us by voters, express our concern because we believe that the signed agreement is harmful to the citizens of Croatia. Some said and Mr. Minister said you read something that wasn't written, you read between the lines. What's ahead of us isn't poetry to give in to a personal impression. It is a document very real, clear and we cannot read but as it is written and in what is written stands, I will try briefly, no tax cuts, no economic growth, no employment growth, no living standards growth, or in the best situation slowed down, delayed. This government is usually asking us for a life delay next year, a second year, patiently, we promised, we will, when we don't know, Gekna hasn't died yet and when we don't know. I hope that our forecasts and I sincerely hope will be wrong for both us and Croatian citizens. We are not malignant, we are not bad, we do not want what we fear to happen because of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia and all of us, but I fear our concern is more than justifiable. If you take this document i.e. Its essence should be summed up in one word, gentlemen, whether we like it or not. And that should be said because no matter what you read me this agreement one way or another, you interpreted it this side as liking it as you claim or the one there that thinks it takes time will very quickly show who was right. And that's why I don't see any reason for this memo to be. The signing of this memo has not been discussed before. Before the signing, which would be logical. We are now asked to make an appointment of something that is already over because the moment you begin to comply with the signed agreement he will give the results and it will be visible what we have talked about, that there will be nothing of good promises but not as someone has said because the government does not want it. I don't believe that. I'm quite certain that Prime Minister Sanader and the government when they made these promises thought honestly only the problem in that gentlemen seem to me that now they don't know how to keep the promise. It's not a matter of goodwill. It's a matter of knowledge. And what's next? I just wonder if this agreement really is being implemented or if the economic policy of the HDZ will be implemented on the basis of which it has won the elections and which we can and agree on because it promises everything that I have just stated. It is a matter of credibility which our government intends to fulfill, promises made to its citizens or promises made to the IMF. Because the way we see it is two stories, two results are very different. I wish this agreement didn't break over the back of the weakest because when you read it then you can only find it hard for the sick, the hard old and the powerless, the hard unemployed and many who work. Gentlemen, we're doing a responsible job here. I disagree with colleagues who claim that this is a waste of time and the spending of taxpayers' money because one who claims so clearly does not understand the role of MPs. We are here to find the best solutions to solve the problems of Croatian citizens all if we really have the benefit of this country, either the position or the opposition. And I will never agree when you claim HDZ government this or that. It is the HDZ government but it is also our Croatian government of all our citizens and we expect it to behave accordingly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22974	Thank you. Dear Representative Emil Tomljanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22975	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary! Here's what you call a late hour so let me do in short lines. Early clock, good. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Well, here we go right now. It was slow, Mr. President, whether it was early or late. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I said late and my colleagues fixed me that it was early. Here, I agree with them. The esteemed colleague has just mentioned that the procedure is the basis of democracy. I would say one of the basics of democracy is absolutely respecting the procedure but another key word in that concept of democracy and that is responsibility and when, in the sense of what I say first, I will have that word in mind, therefore responsibility for the conduct of this state and certainly will not interfere with the mind or procedure that is provided for both our rules and our laws. I will share my debate in two parts because one and the other are only at first sight separate, and I hope that we will give the right picture of the situation of things related to the conditions and way of signing the new stand by the government of Croatia with the International Monetary Fund, and in terms of the form itself, we could say the normative and legal environment and the essence of therefore essential elements of the signed document which unequivocally determines the positions of the Republic of Croatia towards an extremely important international financial institution on the one hand and determine the financial parameters of the development of the Republic of Croatia's economy as a whole. First, I think it is important to stress, no one escapes from the fact that this High House is the Croatian Parliament and on the basis of Article 80. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 122. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament reached a conclusion at its meeting on 20 March 2002 that obliges the Government of the Republic of Croatia to hold a debate at the Croatian Parliament before signing this important financial document. Therefore, the obligation to conduct the debate is unequivocal, however, the following should be noted regarding the conclusion in question. The Parliament's conclusion... Article 122 already mentioned. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The Rules of Procedure shall be an act establishing the position on certain events and phenomena based on an assessment of the situation in a particular area of the conclusions may take views, express their opinion or establish the obligations of the Government, ministries and other bodies of the state administration. Without a doubt, the law in question established the government's obligation to hold a debate on the document in question, which we are actually doing today, but by the provision of Article 114. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, which stipulates that the Croatian Government is responsible for the Croatian Parliament in its work, should be seen in light of the provision of Article 112. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, which stipulates, or strictly, that the Government of the Republic of Croatia is concerned about the economic development of the country, so the Government of the Republic of Croatia. In any sense, the government cannot or wishes to recuperate from its constitutional obligation, and that is precisely why and regarding the way in which the negotiations, the modality of the negotiations and the times that are very important or timing for the signing of the agreement in question, the moment of signing and the sensitivity of the problem has just conditioned that the debate could not take place in the month of June and July of this year, but at the first autumn session of the Parliament. On the contrary, if the modality of negotiating and taking on the commitments of the same financial arrangement could have been different to Croatia, it would have done irreparable damage which could not later be corrected and that is the basic reason why we are today discussing this item of the agenda because everything else would involve conducting the debate when the Assembly does not sit. Because it's the 4th of August of the current year, so when the Parliament doesn't sit. And the debate was supposed to result, I suppose, in the conclusion of the Croatian Parliament, which, but still at the principle level, would bind the government. So there are no constitutional and legal disorders based on today's debate. They have defined and the rest are always the same and by the Constitution certain and laws the relationship between the Government and the Croatian Parliament, and in this sense also the signing of the stand by the arrangement. As for the concrete provisions of the signed agreement, I absolutely reject all those opinions which this important financial document wants to show in the disastrous devastating light for the development of the Croatian economy and for the future standard of citizens. This is simply not true and it is mainly not an accurate finding that the development component of the Croatian economy is lost, that the pace and scope of investment in capital investment is lost, and that, in particular, I will use the word, the political views that the signing of the memo in question will seriously violate the standard of citizens of the most sensitive social categories of society. And something else all the input parameters in signing this document were macroeconomic, whether purely economic, were given in the previous period, so in this sense, the work of the former government is mentioned, because through these elements as entry parameters it is likely to be used to make a new stand by the arrangement, so no one seriously thinks that without these or the analysis of these elements can be approached by this negotiation. And that is why it is mentioned, and in this context the former government and the work of the former government are mentioned. And those are the opening parliamentarians. We can't get around when we're discussing this issue. Is this a broken state budget, from 1.6 million kuna in the previous period which was made by the previous government without prior approval of the Croatian Parliament. Whether this is the issue of guarantees from the Government of the Republic of Croatia for various capital investments and unfortunately failed economic projects. Some situations and private companies. Although the ownership structure is not crucial. Is this irrational borrowing and spending in previous work and in the public spending sector, it is over-indebted. If that is the payment of liabilities under the credit obligations made. They gave these hidden subsidies in Croatian railways. Is it due or paid to civil servants by collective agreements and so on? None of these issues in themselves, but all of these issues in total, were also fundamental, unfortunately, basic parameters that simply determined or directed some sort of for each, therefore, analysis of the previous situation in this sense and conditioned this way and in a formal sense. So the way you sign it and basically the way you sign it. I'm talking about some data, evidence, attitudes, opinions, I really wouldn't. Because I think fellow MPs are also headed for one so illustrative and all understood way to explain to Mr. Shucker. To create that would represent a mere repetition. But let me just say two for an illustration of just two examples of the recent parliamentary past, therefore, in this session. The first example is just to remember the discussions or questions raised in this assembly from the course and the results of the 2004 tourist season. They failed. It's a disaster. Economic problems, setbacks were concepts that wanted to characterize and prepare the tourist season course of the tourist season, as well as its financial effects. The Croatian public wanted to show that this government cannot be caught in the grip of the problem. Electronic and press media were flooded in that tone of information. After the most successful tourist season since the independence of the Republic of Croatia in the Assembly and even in the media it is not possible to hear or read the real picture of the state of things. And another example, which even more illustrating or depicting what I'm talking about. And it refers to the condition, the content and the general climate of the assembly when it was also signed by a very important international financial document and it is about an agreement called Protocol Seven. And at that time, there was already known rhetoric of the opposition, and mostly the leaders of the opposition parties. The Croatian public was not only upset by the messages from this assembly, the disastrous consequences of signing the protocol for Croatian peasants again. The Croatian farmer, already the opposition MPs used constitutional law and for interpretation. Is it gentlemen that we forgot about the unusual parliamentary practice that even before the first 100 days of work the government had raised a question of the government's trust in the whole? Yeah. That's our parliamentary practice, the last eight months.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22976	Lock it down, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22977	Thank you. Okay. Just two more sentences. Because they're one sentence, so as far as the objectives of the objectives or programs are concerned, they're in the signed document itself. Aren't the objectives of reintroducing order into public finances? Isn't the goal of reducing the current balance of payments deficits? Isn't it aimed at reducing foreign debt? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22978	Thank you very much. Thank you. Before you see that I am righteous. I didn't encourage him yet, but they turned off his light so I did. Before two other clubs have a five-minute debate. I think given the time that we could continue tomorrow with an hour or so today, at 10:30. 10.30 with point 5, and 6th and 7th, so 10th and 30th, then the ones that. And a 5-minute discussion of the SDP Club, respected representative Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22979	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. The SDP club wanted to show that it was not against co-operation with the IMF. It's for cooperation, by the way. The SDP club wanted to voice dissatisfaction with this debate by initiating a 2002 debate on the memorandum because of the failure to comply with the 2002 parliament's decision. As the strongest opposition party, the SDP Club wanted to make its remarks responsibly on the memorandum, and to give suggestions for improved memos. Finally, I must say that the SDP club regrets that in relations with international institutions there is no more unity, and a higher level of agreement that is necessary for the Government of the Republic of Croatia to be more successful in performing towards international factors. In fact, we expect a lot of problems in relations and negotiations with the European Union and it is evident that tolerance will be common to us, and I would say more consensus will be needed and how necessary, in order for the Croatian government to be more successful. Finally, on behalf of the Club, I thank Minister Shucker and Deputy Governor and Vice Governor for his patience, and for wanting to hear our debates, I would say in a really long, long, yesterday's and today's debate. With thanks and a grudge from Minister Shuker for insulting Mimica's representative, who is still not appropriate to the Minister of Finance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22980	The HDZ club is a respected representative, Vice President Luka Bebic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22981	Mr. President, Mr. Representatives and Madam. I often warned or mentioned that a large part of the parties in the Croatian Parliament were not interested in this debate. They were not interested, they left as soon as their representatives of the clubs said what they had to say, some even dramatically, so later their participation did not justify this dramaticisation, because they did not participate at all. Those of us who have been patient here and who have listened I believe that we have all been well-intentioned, because we wanted to say what we think. Of the total, I think one 30 MPs, the largest part is from the SDP, which I'm thanking them in front of the HDZ Club, I think it was 24.5 from HDZ and 1 from DC, a total of 30, maybe 31, if I was wrong. This shows the skepticism and reserve towards Croatia's Vlada by SDP and others who participated in the name of clubs, some, and on the part of the government the majority is supported by the government, supported by the government in these efforts, in the realization of their pre-election promises, however some demeaning those 5 elements of the guarantee card that are being realized and they will come true. In parallel, financial chaos and debts will be resolved in order for the Croatian state to stabilise its finances, but not by stopping its main development programmes. The highways will continue, and the demand, the lady is earlier, the lady who last spoke on behalf of the SDP, said that this debate is not the spending of taxpayers, because it takes a long, long time, and I would agree. It was not, if the taxpayers were determined to say, there was no embezzlement, there was no disputation of everything the government did, and in that case, if it wasn't, then it wasn't spending taxpayers' money. We have also heard that 3 billion and 100 million are not spent, that Mr. Cacic here has determined, he knows, because he follows the roads of money, and very carefully and precisely, so in the end, I believe the government will conclude it is not 22 billion but for 3 billion and 100 million less. And since no philosophy and any big stories about money combiners fall into the water if you follow the way of money, where it's finished and that's exactly what it's determined, then you'll see who was right. I wish Mr. Cacic was right and we owe less than 3 billion and 100 million. Believe me, I wish he were right, but unfortunately, as the government says, we will still pay not 3 billion and 100 million less, but we will pay as much as we owe. HDZ supports its government, HDZ will continue to give full support to its budgets, including anything that is not exactly welcome and we are not looking forward to the restrictions that we receive from the International Monetary Fund or anyone on the side, but we are part of Europe, we are candidates for the European Union, we have to balance our finances, we have to move on. If this is how it is, if this is how we've been thinking, then I think we're going to go really further and there's not going to be any more of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22982	Minister of Finance Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22983	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Congratulations on mutual endurance and thanks for the debate with full understanding that everyone wants to express their opinion and has every right to do so, but you must also understand that I, as a representative of the Government, have the right to state the position and opinion of the Government. But what I have already said several times from this pay phone, I will repeat at the end of this debate. If we all want to achieve the goal, and I think that's the only thing we agree on, which is entering the European Union, I think we're going to need far more styles and maybe sometimes personal political party interests to push under the rug, because I think that the fate of our country and the well-being of the Croatian man should be ahead of it, and maybe this debate is going to make us realize that our bickering and different views of certain things are going to hurt us at some point. I gave you an example that happened the other day in Washington. We don't need such things as the state, because let's be honest, they don't see us out there as either the SDP or the HDZ or the DC or the HNS, they look at us as a Croatian state. And all that's wrong with us is a lot of it, because frankly, they want to push us into another package, they want to leave us somewhere else. Well, colleagues and colleagues, that the government's efforts are also going towards getting out of that place and I must stress the satisfaction that on Monday, for the first time, a representative of the finance ministry in Brussels attended the talks together with representatives of Bulgaria, Romania and Turkey. Therefore, economic programmes and their projections for Croatia were discussed. I must point out that their projections are far closer to what I was talking about as a representative of the government, believe me, I'd rather say tonight that there will be economic growth 7%, I'd rather say that the IMF allows us a 7% deficit, that we can use it in development. However, the facts are what they are, those who negotiated with the International Monetary Fund know it's a hard game. Sometimes there may be a little more to the bone, sometimes a little less, but according to the knowledge of those who have negotiated with the European Union, they argue that these negotiations are only one easier foreplay compared to what lies ahead. Well, if we want well-being and if we all want to go where we want to go in 2007, it might be good to talk a little differently about these issues in the future. I'd be happier tonight if I'd heard maybe some idea on the other side, which maybe we should have done differently given the experience, not to beat different numbers. My colleagues to Mimici, if I have accidentally offended him, but for the second time, a very similar debate which is flawed as a representative of the government is being disrupted because the man who was at the head of the European Integration Ministry, I don't think he should be so politically sent down. So I'm saying, I'm sorry he's not here, but if there's any insult, I personally apologize to him. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-13-0.u22984	Thank you very much. And the night has its power. I'm closing the debate. Today, at 10:30, the session will continue. Good night to you all. The next item is the debate on the memorandum on economic and financial policy of the new stand by the arrangement of the Republic of Croatia with the IMF. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, I am voting first, the next conclusion. It takes note of the Memorandum of Economic and Financial Policy and the new stand by the arrangement of the Republic of Croatia with the IMF. Please engage. The vote. The result. I find the proposed conclusion reached by 74 votes, 1 abstention and 35 against.
