ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-18-0.u11949	Ladies and gentlemen, members of the Diplomatic Assembly in the Republic of Croatia headed by the Apostolic Nuncia Francisco-Javiar Lozan, respected ladies and gentlemen representatives, respected and dear guests. I have the honour and special satisfaction that in the Croatian Parliament one of the oldest parliaments in Europe can welcome the president of the friendly Republic of Albania to her. E.g. Alfred Moisiu and members of the delegation. Mr. President-in-Office of the Republic of Albania, the address of the president of one state to the MPs of another country's parliament is always a special occasion and a ceremony. [[Applause.]] It has always expressed and demonstrated in this case the informed friendship of the two peoples and their countries, and the relations between the Albanian and Croatian peoples, i.e. the Republic of Albania and the Republic of Croatia, are indeed so. Historical ties between Albania and Croatia are still in sight in the 7th century when Croats set out from Albania in their first marches to Duklje, part of Albania was administratively tied to Dalmatia in Mljetska Albania, which included God Kotorska with the coat of arms of Budva and Pastrovic, and was managed by an extraordinary providence based in Kotor under the general providence in Zadar. The tough struggles of Albanians with neighbouring imperialists are sympathising in Croatia what Stjepan Radic wrote about. By migration of Albanians from Kosovo at the end of the 1980s, many are heading to Croatia, and Zagreb is becoming one of the centres of Albanian political emigration in this part of Europe. The Democratic Transformation of Croatia also includes the Democratic Alliance of Albanians of Croatia while in the Homeland War, many Albanians join the ranks of the Croatian Army, and some achieve the highest rank of officers. The number of Albanians living in Croatia has increased steadily since 1948 when there were only 635 people in the Republic of Croatia's 2001 censused 15,082 Albanians living and contributing to the multiculturality of Croatia. For political, cultural and interesting gatherings, they are organized in the Association of Albanians in the Republic of Croatia established in 1992 with headquarters in Zagreb, with the publication of the "Informor" magazine as part of the Albanian cultural society as part of the music, drama and sports section. As a political party in the Republic of Croatia, the Democratic Union of Albanians of Croatia was also registered and the Catholic mission of Albanians was organised in the Republic of Croatia, the Association of Croatian-Albanian Friendship and the Union of Albanian Communities in the Republic of Croatia. The establishment of a sovereign, independent and independent Republic of Croatia and democratic Albania resulted in diplomatic relations. The Republic of Albania recognised the Republic of Croatia on 21 January 1992 and the open embassies and established political and economic co-operation between our two countries. The total bilateral relations of our countries back several years recorded a continuous rise and successful development. Our common objectives, such as including full membership of the European Union and Euro-Atlantic integration, the preservation of peace and stability in the region, the development of good relations with neighbouring countries, direct the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Albania towards very good and dynamic cooperation and in the framework of regional and sub-regional initiatives and forums, and the cooperation and implementation of the US-Adriatic Charter in formation A3 as preparations for NATO accession. There are no open political issues between our countries, and contacts are intense at all levels. I am deeply convinced that this cooperation will develop successfully in the future. The Republic of Croatia is today awaiting the conclusion of the Council of Ministers of the European Union by which it receives candidate status and the starting date of negotiations on full membership in the European Union. We want to become the driving force of this part of Europe and we are willing to provide assistance to the Republic of Albania in the form of the transfer of Croatian experiences and knowledge about the negotiating process with the European Union. Your visit, Mr. President of the friendly Republic of Albania, will strengthen the overall traditional friendly relations between our peoples and countries. We have again witnessed that the Republic of Croatia has a trusted partner and an honest friend in the Republic of Albania. I call on the President of the Republic of Albania, His Excellency Mr Alfred Moisiu to address representatives at the Croatian Parliament. Here you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-18-0.u11950	/Applause./ [[The speaker speaks Albanian, no translation.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-18-0.u11951	Your Excellency Mr. President of the Republic of Albania, I would like to thank you on my personal behalf, on behalf of the parliamentary representatives in the Croatian Parliament, for an honest and friendly speech that is actually only a guarantee of even better and closer cooperation between the two friendly states. Let's welcome once again the President of the Republic of Albania. Resume session is at 10:30. [[Applause]] Honorable MPs, honourable MPs! It is the 10th item of the agenda as we agreed yesterday - Proposal for a Social Pensions Act - Proposer of the SDP Representatives Club, first reading, P.Z. No. 66 Proposer of the Law is the Club of Representatives of the SDP. You received the proposal by mail. In the case of the adoption of this law, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply, Articles 144 to 150. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislatives, the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports and the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. You received the reports at the session. The Government of the Republic of Croatia delivered an opinion. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Dear Representative Opačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-18-0.u14556	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and fellow MPs! Here, very briefly I would like to say a few words about this proposal of our Social Pensions Act which we have proposed on behalf of the SDP Club. In fact, our primary desire was to encourage somewhere with this law government, therefore, on a kind of thinking and on a possible solution to the problem in a much more quality way of one part of our population which is very old, therefore, and which is often without any income, lives in very difficult conditions, and then we happen to watch some shows where we see stories of old people living in some small remote places without any income literally hungry and thirsty without electricity, without water because they can't pay for it. Therefore, it is a very endangered category of people we think should be helped in some way. We in our country have classic retirement insurance, and based on that insurance, therefore on certain payments during the working period, there are several types of pensions, even eight, so it is an age pension, early retirement, disability pension, family pension, minimum pension, basic pension, professional rehabilitation and compensation due to physical damage caused by work injury and occupational illness. The amount of pension depends, of course, on the salary achieved, or on the basis of the insurance on which the contributions were paid and on the total pension time completed until retirement. As of 1 July 2003, the lowest pension for 15 years of retirement is 624 kuna and 90 lipa and for 40 years of retirement is a thousand 458 kuna and 10 limes. In parallel, therefore, with this pension system, the social care system that seeks to help people who do not have income for life is also the basis that the government has established is about 400 kuna and one of the biggest and most important programmes within that social assistance is maintenance aid. The level of maintenance aid shall be calculated by applying the relevant percentages from the prescribed scale rate to the established basis and, for the male, it shall be within 100 % of the basis of these 400 kunas. According to data from the former labour ministry and social care on 31.12.2002, a total of 121,000 778 users were entitled to assistance in support of around 20,000 users over 66 years of age. It is assumed that, after the introduction of a social pension, if a large part of these users were accepted, they would stop using this right from the social care system and begin to exercise the right to a social pension for the reasons that social pension would be paid at a higher level and, subject to reduced conditions, to the conditions for the exercise of the right to support. So this law that we are proposing here would cover approximately 58 thousand citizens of the Republic of Croatia who are over 66 years old and whose material position would be improved by this introduction of a social pension and, on the other hand, a much greater social security would be achieved because it is known that the biggest problem is that social assistance and therefore the state's kind of assistance comes to all those who need it, so there are a very large number of people in our places who do not know what their rights are, they have not come to social aid, so they live very hard. And in this way, the introduction of a social pension would actually result in every senior citizen in need of help and would have at least guaranteed by the state and secured at least a certain minimum. So for those 58 thousand people, according to our assessment, who are over 66 years of age, social pension would be for individuals 640 kunas per month and for spouses it would be in the amount of a thousand kuna. The conditions for obtaining the right to social pension would therefore have the right to all Croatian citizens when they are 66 and more than 30 years of age live in the Republic of Croatia for the last 10 years uninterrupted and, of course, with a kind of property censorship in order not to create new injustices. In fact, we're talking about a social pension here, but the fact is it's not about a classic pension. So this is a pension that wasn't earned on the basis of work and on the basis of work as the full-time workers did. Therefore, it is about people who have not been able to manage their full-time work or because of some market relations, or at least the minimum to get early retirement, so it would say it was not about some people who did not want to work, but simply about people who had certain market conditions and simply some living conditions that led to them not being able to make a full pension. Therefore, these funds for this social pension do not go from the pension fund, do not go to the burden of pensioners, go to the burden of the state budget and should say that, regardless of what is necessary for the implementation of this law, certain financial resources are still needed through some ministries that have transfers towards citizens, there could therefore be a number of funds so that even within the current ministry within the budget, there could be better redistribution of funds to ensure payment for social pension. So, here, our desire is primarily to protect through this one institute an older population of citizens over 66 who have lost their ability to have a pension based on work and therefore from working relationships. And once again, this pension, although called pension, is not a classical form of retirement, does not go from a pension fund, does not go to the burden of the current pensioners, but primarily comes from the budget of the Republic of Croatia. Of course, I must add, in this regard, that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has given a negative opinion on this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-18-0.u14557	I thank the honourable representative. Do the committee's reporters want to see it? On behalf of the Club, Honorable Representative Tomcic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-18-0.u14558	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I apologize to the proposer of this previous law and to you for looking for one intervention in this way. I would pray, I suppose you will today either end the 7th session of the Croatian Parliament or you will interrupt it so I would pray if we can hear in time what the plan for continuing the work of this or the new session is. So please if you can't answer me correctly or if we're not satisfied with the answer that you give us a short break of two, three minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-18-0.u14559	You got it. Here, the proposal for today's working day is to do the 10th item of the agenda, the Proposal for a Social Pension Act, the Proposer of the Club, the SDP Advocacy Club and the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Health Insurance Act. As I have the demands of several clubs about agreeing to think within clubs on certain legal proposals to vote on the agenda points we have done this week will be later. And the continuation of the session, the 8th session of the Croatian Parliament, is scheduled for 30. 6, 1. 7, 2. 7th, 7th, 8th and 9th and 14th and 15th, it's Thursday, so 15th would end with a session. ... It's a sequel, a sequel, this is the 8th session, the 7th, then forgive me, then proceed. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] On behalf of the HSS Club, I'll set a break, five minutes, okay? 10, 10, according to the Rules of Procedure is at least 10, so 10.55 extensions. On behalf of the HNS Club, on behalf of the Club LIBRE, HSP and HDZ. At five to 11, it means 10.55 follow-up. Dear MPs, we continue our work. On behalf of the HSS Club, distinguished representative Tomcic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-18-0.u14561	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, namely I asked for a break after your reply on behalf of the Club to simply protest that you announced that today the 7th session of the Croatian Parliament will be interrupted and that it will be continued on 30 June. I remind you that Mr. Vladimir Seks announced 10 days ago that today we will end the 7th session and will have an 8th session by 15 July. What you said today can only be interpreted in one way to avoid the Acute morning at a new session. But let me say a few more sentences on behalf of the HSS Club. Today is not any day for the Republic of Croatia, we assume on the basis of some calls from the Government Protocol that we will prepare to be present tomorrow night at 20 o'clock at the reception in the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the occasion of the award of candidate status to the Republic of Croatia for the European Union. We assume that we have enough information that this will happen today at 12 hours and will happen, that Croatia will become a candidate and that it will likely be set a date for the start of negotiations. If the Prime Minister has already announced this reception, then I would like to make it very clear here. Neither the previous government nor this government is the only reason Croatia will win the bid. This home has certainly played an important role in the previous and slightly smaller composition of Croatia to reach this candidate status. I would like to remind you that in the previous session, we have carried out all the harmonisations of Croatian legislation with the legislation of the European Union exactly according to that programme that we have set ourselves at that time. In this conference, however, this harmonisation of legislation is going a little slower, but I have no doubt that this assembly of parliament will also do the job in both time and finally correct towards the dynamics that Croatia will be required to do. However, Mr Vice President, for me, it is an incredible fact that in this high house, it is simply today that we do not have any need as a national representative in the highest legislative body if nothing else with one glass of champagne or two nice words marks the fact that Croatia today will get candidate status in the European Union. You may still have time to fix it after 12 hours of coming, that news comes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-18-0.u14562	Your Honor, I beg you, please, a little quiet. Your Honor, Your Honor, Mr. Tomcic. This House is in preparation and appropriate marking, and we all hope that a decision that will come sometime around 12 hours, and before that decision would be disproportionate to anything, or thank this assembly and the previous assembly of Parliament and this government and the last government, and I think there is no reason for your dissatisfaction with what you last said. As for the follow-up of the 7th session, perhaps an additional clarification. The extension is 30.6. and the vote will be held below. I propose that by 30.6. the Bureau of Parliament meet to discuss a possible new call for a new session. If you're satisfied. On behalf of the HNS-PGS Club, the esteemed representative, Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-18-0.u14563	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. If we end today with the 11th item of the agenda, this means that there are 14 points left on the agenda that would not be done today or at this session, and according to the data or list of acts that have come to the President of the Parliament and fulfil the conditions to be on the agenda of the next session, there are 23 with the day before yesterday, with witnesses that we have announced that at the next session, with a number of proposals from government and colleagues from opposition clubs, we would have on the agenda and budget rebalancing if I caught the information well through the media. So now it's 37 points of the agenda that we're transferring to June 30th. By June 30th, the government will probably prepare 15 more of its proposals, 15.7th of the Rules of Procedure, a summer break in the work of the Parliament, or that means that we will have extraordinary meetings or that we will have 37 points in those 5.6 days, and now we have done 3 days 6 or 7. When a colleague Herman yesterday said in a slightly and funny way that obviously the priorities of Parliament's leadership were not parliamentary deputies or other affairs there were a lot of violent reactions, different comments, but it was obvious that there was a disturbance in the planning and mode of work since even the vote on the points that we had concluded was delayed. Mr. Vice President, I refer to Article 37. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, which is prescribed that the Bureau of Parliament and the presidents of the Clubs of Representatives discuss the agenda of the upcoming session, in matters of importance for the work of the Parliament, encourage the placing of certain topics on the agenda and other important issues for the work of the Parliament. There was no meeting of such a meeting with the club presidents prior to this extension. If 30.6. continues this session then, according to your statement just before we proceed on Monday or Tuesday in order to complete this session cycle and I suggest that either you call a session of the Assembly Presidency with clubs to agree together or make an effort to agree on a follow-up session or we will have to follow the dictatorship further by reminding that, apart from the current clock, the problem is that the deadline for putting opposition proposals on the Parliament's agenda is 30 days, given that a continuation is planned and not a new session of all proposals that are in the list will not be on the 30th agenda. I must say that no calls from the Government Protocol to the Croatian People's Party Club have been received about any reception and ceremony being prepared for tomorrow. We thank the former and current government, the former and present assembly of the Parliament. Do not accidentally turn away from thanking anyone for what Croatia is today will probably get by making a decision, I am convinced that anyone accidentally makes any mistake of this thanks also to the President of the Republic of Mesic because he did nothing in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-18-0.u14564	It seems that this pay phone is also used in a competition that has made more for joining the European Union. Of course the President of the Republic is very much responsible for this, we hope today's positive decision. I said that the Bureau session would probably be next week, next week, and at that Bureau session, we could discuss calling a new session of parliament. On behalf of the Libra Club, Honorable Representative Radosh.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-18-0.u14565	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, I think it is necessary to say some things that are not good and are not acceptable in the work of the Croatian Parliament. It certainly is not good that work cannot be planned in this way. Interrupts of the session of the same session which are unannounced, do not know when the session will continue, prevent the work of the Assembly and MPs from being planned properly. The MPs have other jobs besides, of course, their obligations here in the Croatian Parliament. So it's certainly one thing to avoid. If that's the start of some new practice this constant delay of one of those same sessions, then it's not good, it can't be good, Madam Vice-President of the HDZ Club. Equally, I don't think it's good to avoid the current clock like this, the current morning. It is not as usual for the world to dominate the opposition in that morning, because members of the ruling group are creating politics. With us, there are al couples, but since it is already so if it is no better, then this current clock as an important contact of the parliament of MPs must not be avoided primarily by opposition prisoners with the government. That's not a good thing about this Parliament. Then, the issue of the agenda, in this way all the points that are proposed and would enter a new session, do not necessarily have to enter that session that es stretches like a ribbon and thus slows down the work of the Croatian Parliament. From one initiative that was announced to its arrival on the agenda, it passed several months later. It's a very difficult thing to follow the public, which, of course, has an interest in all of that. And finally, the same issue of voting is not good about some point of the agenda that must have been discussed today and voted in a month or two days. What the public can finally know about it, the sense is lost is lost with the particular interests of the public. Once these same topics appear in multiple apparitions and then, of course, they are overshadowed by new topics, in the new agenda of the next session. These aren't all good things, of course. I don't know why there's no vote today. As far as I can tell, Sabor has a quorum. Or perhaps he's worried that due to the lack of our supporters who are not here today, there won't be a proper majority otherwise of the parliamentary majority. These are all things, Mr. Vice President, and colleagues and fellow MPs who are not good in the Croatian Parliament and it would not be good if it became a practice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-18-0.u14566	I thank the esteemed representative, Radosh. Well, I wouldn't say that this is a new practice, they knew before the Parliament's session lasted three four months. As for the objections to the current clock, I think we've absolutely agreed to the club presidents. As for the vote, I will repeat once again that there are a number of amendments and there are demands within clubs to agree within clubs. And let me say my opinion is better to make or delay making a decision than to make the wrong decision. On behalf of HSP, the esteemed representative Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-18-0.u14567	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. On behalf of the HSP, I first protest that a changed decision was made by President of the Parliament of Mr. Shex last week. Friday. He specifically said that the continuation of this session 7 would be 16, 17 and 18 and that the new session 8 would be convened from July 30th to July 15th. And it's in the phonogram. So there's a phonogram, and I think most of us here have been. And what does that mean now? I have this feeling that she's deliberately avoiding the current morning. And we rightists are above all the most interested in this topic in the morning, first of all, to finally be told us why we have been avoiding a hearing about qualifications from the Hague prosecution's indictments against our generals against Croatia for four months. It's obstructing. The other thing is, if someone told us in public why the HSP doesn't directly say that he glued posters and everything else, we said, the president of the site, we're behind those posters. But we didn't glue them, we have democratic ways of fighting and everything. Therefore, we support that part. But I'm asking that we don't change the decisions of Mr. Shakespeare's Parliament president. Let us once respect him if he has said that there will be an extension of the session these days when it is and that it will be new, so let us stick to our words. That's the most important thing for us. So, Mr. Vice President, you're also allowing yourself to comment on what the Rules of Procedure says isn't the case. So let's vote on the subject today. Which is why everyone had to go to Portugal. Come on, I guess that's the more important thing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-18-0.u14568	I thank the esteemed representative Peri Kovacevic. I have to comment on the president. On behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Club, the distinguished representative Jarnjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-18-0.u14569	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. This is a day of history for the Croatian state, yes. And so we need to experience it, and so we in the Parliament will also tell about it. But only after a decision has been made as the Prime Minister has said. Anything sooner would have been wrong. But then I guess we'll also thank those who had the courage 14 years ago in this House for looking at the first documents, and for those who were the first to carry guns and those who died and who were wounded and who created this state and the previous Parliament and this Parliament and the previous and the governments of everyone who contributed to it in their own way. But let's wait for the decision to be made. Then they will be called, and then there will be certain thanks spoken of. It would be good for everyone to be grateful. As for the session. According to the Rules of Procedure, we know exactly how the session is determined, but also the mother and practice, the recent one from the previous session, so for the first six months in the previous session, we had five sessions. It basically lasted two months. Here stands the first session of February-March. The first was February, the second was February-March, we had five current watches, and this year we were already six. Until the agenda is exhausted, this session will continue and the vote will be as the Rules of Procedure says when all the preconditions necessary for the vote can be made. So I think the debate about whether someone left or didn't leave in what sense he left, and finally to clear it up when the gentlemen of Libra are so asking, who's in Portugal. They will come back and say when the call came, whether it was a tourist trip, or by chance they coincided with the European Championship you will hear the information about it. And as for the throw and attempt to insinuate until then, wait two or three days, you'll get the answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-18-0.u14570	I thank the esteemed representative of the Capricorn. Correction of an incorrect quote by the esteemed representative Herman.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-18-0.u14571	Mr. Vice President, thank you for giving me your word. Correcting the incorrect quote of colleagues of the Jarnjak...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-18-0.u14572	Here, you have the right to correct an incorrect allegation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-18-0.u14573	But when the conditions are met. So,... /The speaker turned off and re-enabled./... colleagues of the Capricorn who stated that it was a practice that repeated, or practice as it was in the previous assembly. It's simply incorrect, literally incorrect. The sessions lasted several weeks exactly, but they lasted without interruption. There was no maneuvering from week to week and there was no further avoiding the current morning. So as you've heard in this assembly these days, good practice is the best theory. What's happening right now is exactly the opposite.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-18-0.u14574	I thank you. You've corrected an incorrect assumption, you have no right to debate. Dear Representative Jarnjak, breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-18-0.u14575	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Reverend Herman has not corrected the allegations. My quote couldn't be corrected because he's right. This is the document taken out of the Assembly archive, which shows that the interruptions were two weeks each, that the sessions lasted for some three months, that in the first six months of 2000 we had four actual hours, and this year we had already had seven actual hours. Thus, it speaks of the way it used to be. The document is here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-18-0.u14576	Thank you. You're right that Mr. Herman hurt Article 209 because he didn't correct the incorrect assumption. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the distinguished representative Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-18-0.u14577	Mr. Jarnjak said theoretical inaccuracy. He said that five sessions were held in the previous session of the Parliament... /The speaker turned off, then turned back on./...and secondly, we stick to the words of the President of the Parliament who said that we would have an 8th session.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-18-0.u14578	Thank you. We're moving on with our work. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? We're going to a club debate. On behalf of the SDP club, distinguished representative Dragica Zgrebec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-18-0.u14579	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. We expected that, in addition to this written opinion, the Government would have a representative of the Government who would give in the oral part of the government's opinion which is negative on this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-18-0.u14580	I'm sorry. They're on their way. Looks like they're stuck in traffic somewhere. If you want, we can set a break of 10 minutes if you want a representative of the government.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-18-0.u14581	No, there's no need.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-18-0.u14582	But he's on his way here, half an hour ago, obviously, they're stuck somewhere.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-18-0.u14583	Thank you very much. So, what were we handling by proposing the Social Pensions Act? The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia already defines the Republic of Croatia as a social state in its first article and first sentence. The Constitution defines social justice as one of the highest values of the constitutional order of the Republic of Croatia. In any society considered democratic, two of the most vulnerable age groups of their citizens are children and older generations. On this basis, the SDP election programme for the previous elections was also managed by such values as the constitutional arrangement of the Republic of Croatia, so we also had a sub-programme called "Mirrovine for All". On the basis of such an electoral programme, this proposal for a social pension law was also followed. Analysing the 2001 census, it was found that in the total population of the Republic of Croatia about 644 thousand of our citizens were over 66 years old. It is estimated on the basis of the primary different types of social assistance so that the achievement of the social pension could be achieved by about 58 thousand of our older citizens, many of whom are now receiving different types of social assistance. One wise man in his day said, "Yes, and a beggar should be helped before he gives his hand, for this is how we safeguard his dignity." Therefore, according to these citizens, their dignity should be preserved in a certain way so that they do not seek social assistance but rather the state through legislation should provide assistance to such fellow citizens. And to say very briefly what we propose. It is proposed that all citizens who are 66 years of age if they have lived from 15 to 66 years in the territory of the Republic of Croatia for at least 30 years, and of which 10 years have been uninterrupted, if in the previous year they are entitled to a social pension, if their income is not greater than 19% of the budget base used for certain beneficiaries of the budget. So the maximum height would be 19% for the individual, or 30% for the mates in one family. So this is a way for citizens not to have to themselves look for different types of social assistance that can be occasional or permanent. Many of them are also in such a state that they are not always able to fight for such help. However, the government's opinion is negative, and in this opinion it is actually called that this is not, should not bear the name of pensions because it is not a pension that is made through the Institute of Pension Insurance. Well, of course not, we do it through the law and we say it's out of retirement insurance, that it's a social pension to be paid out of the state budget. Furthermore, the government says they are citizens who have not paid a pension contribution and are questionable about the amount of such a social pension that would be at the level of the lowest pension paid by a pensioner with 15 years of retirement. Of course pensions are small and this lowest pension is indeed symbolic and insufficient for normal or minimal living standards. However, we expect that growth and growth in economic activities will also increase wages, raise pensions, and then this kind of social pension, conditionally said pension for our citizens, should really not be questioned. Since the Government itself says that it will take care of certain analyses we expect this proposal to be an incentive for the Government, our Club will, of course, vote for the adoption of this Law in the first reading and we ask you to join our Club in order to ensure, together in one period, that we will also ensure permanent receipts of such a threatened category of our citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-18-0.u14584	I thank the esteemed representative Zgrebec. It is the turn of the IDS Club, the esteemed representative of Drandić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-18-0.u14585	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Here, on behalf of the IDS Club, a few words about this legislative proposal and, at first of all, to say that the IDS Club supports this proposal in the first reading, we support it primarily from the aspect of a humane commitment of this Croatian Parliament and from the point of view of trying this one of our decisions, with this law to restore at least a little dignity to the oldest generation of Croatian citizens who, unfortunately, have, many times, experienced many injustices, have been disproved, and this may be one way, and in the pension system should solve a lot of things to try to at least one small part of these injustices. And on that side of the IDS Club anyway supports this proposal. A proposal that does not need to be repeated for all citizens of the Republic of Croatia when they are 66 years old under certain conditions, since their colleague Zgrebec has previously said they provide a minimum pension of 19% of the budget base, which is now about 640 kuna or together for spouses 30% of the budget base or slightly more than 1000 kuna. It is really minimal means, and as it says in these materials, this argument of the Law is about about about 58 thousand people living in the Republic of Croatia today and the means needed to do so if you are looking at a real increase in the expenditure of the state budget are essentially, when we look at today's state budget according to us symbolic is about 230 million kuna somewhere. The IDS Club thinks that this, that this could be the first step that would certainly mean a lot to these citizens, but the first step in showing good faith to correct the wrongs that have been done to our pensioners, to try to get our pensions back to that level that these people who have worked and created this country all their lives have the right to do, and we see these days of certain proposals in which we would be doing debt to the pensioners what we will have the opportunity to discuss in this House, I don't want to give advance reviews about it, and I hope that we will soon have the opportunity to discuss that and disproved fighters, antifascists also in a similar way to correcting all the injustices that have been brought to them and that their rights are leveled with the rights of the rest of the Homeland War. The IDS supports this bill in the first reading, and because we think that these funds can be relatively easy to move forward, we are reading these days of analysis that refers to the likely future cost increase proposal, so we can see that only by increasing the cost of 1 kuna for cigarettes, can be estimated at around 440 million kuna, which means that for the whole project that is foreseen in this Bill proposal means enough for this social pension, for example, I say cigarette tax for half a kuna per box, so we all have to ask the question together, is it more important to collect cigarettes for 50 lips or is more important in some way to help 58 thousand Croatian citizens who live today without any income? For us in the IDS there are no dilemmas and therefore we expect other Clubs of Representatives to support this Legislative proposal, and we expect the Government of the Republic of Croatia to soon come to the Parliament a complete solution, a proposal for a solution that will correct all these injustices that have been done to that generation of citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-18-0.u14586	I thank the esteemed representative Drandic. On behalf of the HSS Club, distinguished representative Lalic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-18-0.u14587	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Well, I'm not going to welcome this time the government's representatives who are gone again, as they were when we discussed the Amendment Law proposal and the pension insurance supplements that were to be introduced by the National Pensions Institute. This is very strange, that the government that says it is sensible, socially sensitive that it is not coming again to monitor the debate concerning the most vulnerable part of the population of the Republic of Croatia. The proposed social pension law aims to achieve the same objective as the Proposal for a Law of the Croatian Peasant Club, which would introduce the National Pensions Institute. The aim of both laws is to ensure the minimum safety of citizens of the Republic of Croatia who are over 65 and 66 years of age and are no longer able to work. Both the proposal is based on Article 57. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia according to which I quote "weak, powerless and others because of unemployment or incompetence to work, unsettled persons of the state shall be entitled to help meet the basic needs of life". Therefore, the state is obliged to provide aid to the weak, powerless and abandoned, indicating on the proposal of the Croatian Peasant Party Club, the Government supported the idea of introducing the right to certain recipients of older people who are not provided on any basis and who are without minimum social security. Nevertheless, it proposed that the proposal for a law be rejected in the first reading because the solution to this problem should not be sought in the pension system. The government's own proposal to reject the law in the first reading is evidence of the demagogue behaviour of the same government that often supports ideas, but the proposals refuses without firm, convincing and logical reasons. Here is the fate of this proposal to be another proof of the usual demagogue rhetoric of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Respectful and so-called. The reasons behind the rejection of the HSS proposal, the SDP Representatives Club, proposed a solution to the problem between the pension insurance system and the social care system. So this proposal of the law as tried and the HSS proposal finds a solution to giving social security to citizens of the Republic of Croatia, over 66 years of age, who lived from 15 to 66 years in the Republic of Croatia for at least 30 years, although in the year preceding the year of the right to social pension did not achieve an average monthly income greater than 19% of the budget base, i.e. if the spouses together failed to achieve an average monthly income of more than 305 kuna, 305 kuna per month. This category includes the poorest citizens, both those who do not have any income and part of those of 71 thousand 908 pensioners who receive a monthly pension of 500 kuna per month. They bear in mind that the average pension of this part of the pensioner is 359.24 kuna per month. The peace system is one of the most important social security systems. There are now a million 42,000 pensioners in Croatia. Even 173 and a half thousand receive a pension under a thousand kuna a month. You can't talk about the social security of this part of the pensioner. Especially at a time when we are in four months, when only in four months oil as a basic energy collects even six times and pulls together basic supplies. Under these conditions, social security and those 700 thousand 395 pensioners, whose pension is from 200 to 2000 kuna per month, cannot be talked about. It is indisputable that the social security of pensioners is insufficient. But there is even worse in all of this, which is that there are citizens older than 65 years in Croatia, and they have no income whatsoever. Let's not think that this group is just about people who have never worked anywhere. Especially not because they didn't want to work. The group is also attended by those who have worked, but have not collected at least 15 years of work. For various reasons, they ran out of work, and so they welcomed old age. The group included peasants who paid pension insurance, but not enough years, not because they didn't want to, but because they couldn't, because the amount of contributions exceeded their total monthly income. This group also includes citizens of the Republic of Croatia who live their whole lives in the territory of the Republic of Croatia, but have worked either in the area of the former Republic of Yugoslavia, or have worked in Croatia, but in companies based in the former republics. Today these citizens receive pensions irregularly. And when they do, they're very often lower than 500 kuna a month. We wonder, where there is social justice, which our Constitution says is one of the highest values of the Constitutional Order of the Republic of Croatia. All the value and importance of social justice, Stjepan Radic, described in one sentence "freedom without social justice means nothing to the people". And this law, just like the Croatian Peasant Party's proposal to introduce the National Pensions Institute, is a contribution to the highest value of the Constitutional Order, which is social justice. The system of national, or social pensions is not unknown in either the world or Europe. In some countries, they are called social pensions, in some national pensions, and it is common to ensure the social security of citizens who have experienced inability to work and who do not have or do not have enough means to live. The conditions under which the pension can be realised as well as the level of pension depends on the economic power of the state. However, it is tied everywhere to the age and residence of a certain number of years in the territory of the country. In the Nordic systems, national pensions are based on a social-democratic idea and equality. And because of the wealth of the countries that apply such systems, national pensions are incomes that can be worth living from. In Australia and New Zealand, these pensions are called social pensions, since they are often accomplished by those who did not have much before retirement. Switzerland has a national pension, Portugal has a social pension. If we seek Europe, it is our duty to accept European standards, as other transition countries accept them. In our country, according to estimates based on the list of population records of pensioners and user records in the social care system of such citizens, there are 58 thousand. Taking care of those 58 thousand poor people would cost the state budget 320 million kuna. If costs are taken away from a social care system that social pensioners would not benefit from, it is only 230 million kuna per year. The government, which increases its resources for representation and official travel by 500 million kuna compared to last year, cannot say there is no means to help the poorest. If so, then gentlemen of the government every time you drink Scottish whiskey and French cognacs, when you travel needlessly and luxuriously, remember that you made it possible to close your eyes in front of the poorest. Those who don't have time to wait for the fulfillment of your promises, and they can't even live in the country. I am convinced that we all here think it would be fair to pass this law. But only some of us will raise hands for this law, some will leave the hall during the vote, because they cannot fight against themselves or against the party they belong to. Some with a view to the floor will vote against, and a high-ranking forehead will be against, for they remain obedient to their nature. The rejection of this proposal is not a refusal by the SDP Club, as there has been no rejection of the Croatian Peasant Party Club before. The rejection of this proposal is the rejection of the 58,000 poorest citizens of the Republic of Croatia. and we will keep that in mind when we vote and the Croatian Peasant Party Club will support this proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-18-0.u14588	Thank you very much, dear colleague. On behalf of the HDZ Club, respected representative Marko Turic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-18-0.u14589	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. I have to say two sentences here that applied. The proposer of this proposal is SDP. Therefore, I miss the government's representatives in the first place, because they were manifested in writing. And that's why we're here right now, comrades, to discuss it. So, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, a civilized positive level, therefore a desirable society in which we wanted our children and all together, where the greater democracy is all being measured together with you all well-known social sensitivity. Are we sensitive to it or not? Of course, here are two categories, children and old people, or adults. As we have before us this law, I must say that this bill we at the HDZ Club discussed very carefully and very closely on this issue. Let us remind ourselves and repeat that the provision of certain incomes to older people who are not provided on any basis which are without a minimum of social security and cannot afford to provide themselves is actually one of the strategic elements, the strategy of the development of the Republic of Croatia so-called. Croatia in the 21st century, therefore, is a strategy for the development of the pension system and social care system. It's clear to everyone. In the proposed text of the law, these receipts bear the name social pension. Although this income cannot be an institution of pension insurance but rather an institute of social income or form of social protection with all social-protective elements. Peace in pension insurance of generation solidarity we all know this comes from work and contributions paid on the basis of work, or the amount of pension depends on the salary achieved i.e. the basics of the insurance on which the paid contribution and the total completed retirement pension until retirement. So now we have a situation that the lowest pension in 15 years is, for example, a pension of 625 kuna and a 40-year pension rate of 450. On the other hand, perhaps the most important institute in the social care system is maintenance aid, which is calculated by a corresponding percentage on a established basis, and it depends on a number of other elements such as the number of family members, working capacity and others. The elderly population mentioned here were for a number of other reasons but also because of age is unable to meet the basic needs of life covered by the Institute of Extras for Aid and Care. The proposed national pension is visible from this, there are a lot of socio-protective elements such as the property censorship that is a condition for the acquisition of rights, then the right to do so by persons who have never worked or have not achieved incomes, years of life as a presumption of incompetence to work. That's why it seems to me that social pension is right and located somewhere between these two systems. The need to introduce a social income institute is unequivocal. This is an obligation for the state to take care of this category of all citizens who for any reason have not worked and have not made their receipts based on the work. But I am personally thinking, it is opinions and the HDZ Club that this is a task that requires a careful analysis of all three systems, both social care, health insurance and generational solidarity systems. And of course, their upgrades, by upgrading them, come up with a positive and quality solution where and how social security will be possible for those who cannot be provided for themselves. The HDZ Club supports the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia that the proposed solution will be absolutely taken into account in further upgrading of the social care and pension insurance system and therefore we believe that the proposed solution is partly, I would say almost incompletely because it does not see the situation in the field of social security as a whole and as such could not accept it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-18-0.u14590	Thank you very much, colleague. We have two corrections to incorrect allegations. Representative Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic first reported. Here you go, buddy!
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-18-0.u14591	Thank you, Madam Vice President. It is not true what his colleague Turic said that retirement is based only on work. There are also family pensions, but the least important thing is what's called. It is important that it is generous, that it enables a decent life for both the recipient and the state as the donor.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-18-0.u14592	Thank you very much, colleague. Next, a colleague, Stazic, was registered for correction. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-18-0.u14593	It is not exactly as the Turkish representative claims that there is no need for a government representative to be here because the government has delivered an opinion. In that same opinion, the government has appointed Branko Vukelic and the secretary of state as its representatives. The thing is, there's a need for the government to determine them, but if they're not there, they don't care. That's why they're gone.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-18-0.u14594	Thank you very much, colleague. Let's move on with the debate. On behalf of the HSP Club, representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go, fellow representative!
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-18-0.u14595	Madam Vice President, colleagues and colleagues! First of all, this is a very important topic today that we are discussing, and I suggest that one of the next meetings of the Croatian Parliament do so to start in some soup kitchen or to start closing the Dolco market or some others in Zagreb and elsewhere, so you will see what the situation is, so you will see people pushing around the container to get to the rotten tomatoes and other things to eat something that day, or go to the soup kitchen and the situation says no more, all the meals have been eaten. And today, we are talking about this important subject without a government representative, bureaucratic and demagogue. Let's talk straight, let's talk real. We must not be the ones here to sell demagogy or bureaucracy because this government response is bureaucratic. This is a purely bureaucratic response from the government. This is not if Croatia is a social state and, in addition, finely states that the social state of Croatia must take care of its people. Why does he have to worry first? Because of the facts. Here I was two weeks ago in Županja and I was among a hundred and some defenders and citizens, they are the people who worked at the Lužnjak company who we know that privatisation and conversion was done in Croatia who will never be able to fulfill these 15 years of retirement experience for 65 years, they will never be able to meet that part, and so is the majority and all of our citizens who appear in the soup kitchens because they have lost their jobs in conversion and privatisation, and these are the tycoons they have, sold and are now in the interest of creating a rule of law. Normally, what they illegally acquired so that they could protect them now. So this is a very important topic and this amount that is proposed here I think the best name would be so it's not even a retirement pension. 640 kuna is not even a retirement pension. So let us be aware of our responsibilities and everything else and ask the Government not to give any more of these answers. She's worried now, the government is looking after the situation that someone with 15 years of retirement will be able to get 640 kuna. So what's 640 kuna? What can he do with those 640 kunas? And now that he's 15 years old, he's going to be the same as the one who's 10 or 12 years old. What are we talking about? What does 640 kuna mean? So let's be aware of the situation and it's really sad that there's no government representative that he's so demagogue and bureaucratic to us. We remember the promise that the pensioners will be lifted from their subscription to television, not lifted, that the VAT will be reduced, is not reduced. So let's become a social state and take care of our own people because basically what happened in conversion and privatisation, grab and robbery is the consequence of this situation, and the soup kitchens and everything else. Let's say, now I'm just going to give you an example of another. We know that we have within our social policy and the version of paying responsible artists pension and health insurance. And imagine who was among those worthy who sought, she was even searching for her, I don't think she got any. As a well-deserved artist, she asked the state to pay her pension and health benefits after a concert as much as these people we're talking about today have never seen or been able to earn in their entire lives. I can't make money my whole life. That's what we need to talk about here. Therefore, the situation is more than serious, these 320 million kunas are not some big money, we are offering you a solution, we are talking already, righting for 7, 8 months that in the Croatian Pensions Office there are 5 000 and 100 persons with disabilities pensions of Croatian wartime disabled who, among them, are 1,000 and something that do not even have the status of defenders and others do not have the status of Croatian wartime disabled. They cost this country 25 million kuna a month. So multiply it, come, it's 280 million kuna. Therefore, there is a possibility of getting rid of it but let's not discuss this topic bureaucratically and demogoguely. Does anyone know that a few days ago in Ban Jelačić Square, a shoe cleaner who worked his whole life at 54 years of age died? The son said he died with a smile on his face. No one normally recorded that. But there's been an affair in Severine, and there's been some nonsense. So we take care of people, we take care of people, not of demagogy and bureaucracy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-18-0.u14596	Thank you very much, colleague. We have a correction to an incorrect quote. Please, colleagues and colleagues! Representative Krunoslav Markovnović has applied for a correction of the incorrect allegations. Here you go, my colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-18-0.u14597	Well, here I am correcting the inaccuracies of fellow MPs that there's just so much traffic in the markets at closing time. No less or less, even less than in developed Western countries where the mass of homeless people walks around and on bridges sleeps and so forth. And when television finds someone, it finds them individually. That's one thing. Second. Secondly, I suggest that the parliamentary mandate lasts five years because there is general amnesia of SDP and HSS that they have been in power for four years and only five years have some good ideas come to mind.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-18-0.u14598	Thank you very much. No matter who agrees with your opinion or not, this other thing was not a correction to an incorrect assumption. Correction, violation of Rules of Procedure Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-18-0.u14599	An esteemed colleague injured Article 209 of Article 2, he did nothing to correct me, so it's a shame that we're calling on that part that's what's out there. That's embarrassing!
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-18-0.u14600	Thank you very much. Another breach of the Rules of Procedure. Please, colleagues and colleagues! Dear representative Ljubica Lalić. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-18-0.u14601	My colleague, I don't know his last name, I didn't remember, he hurt him, Markovanovic, he hurt his Rules of Procedure because he insulted not two MPs but insulted two parties, and it was false colleagues that as a citizen he followed the work of the Parliament and the Government that he could remember some things. Madam Chairman, I think it's my turn that due finally, finally, to insults and clubs to give counsel a heads-up.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-18-0.u14602	Thank you very much for your helpful suggestion. Let's move on with the debate. On behalf of the HSU Club, Joseph Judge, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-18-0.u14603	Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to say a few words on behalf of the club. It's, you can't hear, the bill gives characteristics, social rather than retirement. Well, I think it should be called a social aid or a social charity, whatever we want, but it doesn't belong to the retirement category. The peace is a goal of saving for old age, disability and death, and that means that after death it is inherited. And it gives certain social security to an insurance company who, during his working life, pays into a particular fund so that he will not be old or poor by age. I think that this right to a national charity has persons over 66 years of age, some and younger and should not be enslaved for years who have been resident in Croatia for at least 30 years, and it is not important then and which are not important then and who have been constantly in Croatia in the last 10 years, and it is not crucial. It is crucial that he is poor, it is crucial that he does not have the means to live and the state no matter at what level he needs to be guaranteed certain security, but social security. We're talking about 58 grand of those who have no funds, there's a large number in those 58 grand that are already receiving 400 kuna social benefits. However, no one is asking the question that there are 71 thousand pensioners who have a pension below 500 kuna. What we will now solve together with these or for pensioners should be resolved in the pension system and for social welfare in the welfare system. Because the factors that determine retirement under the proposal of this law fall within the sphere of social care. This means that we should make an analysis but not for two years, the analysis can be done very briefly and see what happens to those people who have less than 15 years of retirement and have been paying into the fund. They should normally from that fund and participate in a certain amount and another amount from the sphere of social care. These are certain cases that we should take care of. And secondly, what about those who are already getting more than this minimum. They have a certain pension and receive a certain supplement because the city or municipality is able to give them additional funds. We support, we support greater separation for social security, because we find it the worst to be or the hardest to be old and poor but in the social sphere. We're too old to buy that after retirement it won't come that tomorrow and this 58 grand will sit on a pension fund, it wouldn't be fair. It would be fair to give them funds from the social sphere and leave our pension as defined in our legal regulations. I therefore call on the government to come out very quickly with a proposal that would settle social benefits and social assistance on a satisfactory basis and let the pension system be resolved in accordance with the rules applicable to pension insurance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-18-0.u14604	Thank you very much, dear colleague. We have several corrections of incorrect allegations. She is the first colleague of Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-18-0.u14605	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, my colleague Judge incorrectly claims that what the SDP Club is proposing, such a pension that it is a charity, perhaps from your point of view, is now a charity when you came to the Assembly on the coat of arms of pensioners and you must have forgotten that. That's number one. And then you secured... The pay phone is turned off and then turned on./... but you are equally insolent when you say that what, or you wonder what about those pensioners who have less than 15 years of internship or cannot make a pension... /The speaker is excluded/... who, who have less than 600 thousand, of 600 kuna per month. So I think about that big salary that it was worth it to at least this, this bill that doesn't have that many articles to read.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-18-0.u14606	My fellow Members, I agree this time that you have indeed been on the verge of insulting to a fellow representative. But we're going with the Rules of Procedure's injuries. The first one was Niko Rebic. I'd like an article, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-18-0.u14607	Article 214, and in fact Mrs Anticevic is always at the border of the incident and Article 214 says: “The representative is given a warning if: demeaning or insulting the president or other representatives”. I don't think this is the first time, and I think we should finally sanction these incident speakers.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-18-0.u14608	Thank you very much for having called for article 214 and the right to give a warning. Since I have been chairing, it seems to me that the last few speakers have offended other MPs, so I have been able to give notices in order that they have appeared more or less, so I would ask you nicely to stick to the agenda and the topic due to the integrity of the Parliament. Thank you very much. No one named Rebic. Here you go. I'm sorry, Judge.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-18-0.u14609	.... /The speaker is also involved in an incident like Mrs. Anticevic. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-18-0.u14610	Be my guest, Babic-Petricevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-18-0.u14611	I quit because it's already been said.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-18-0.u14612	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-18-0.u14613	And to learn decency... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-18-0.u14614	A colleague, Matušić, also gives up. I hope that's a contribution to the quality of the debate. Corrections to incorrect allegations. Representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Not anymore? Thank you very much. Dear Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-18-0.u14615	So I'm going to correct a fellow Judge who said that this law actually gives us the right to mercy. That's incorrect. We are calling for constitutional law and the obligation for a citizen to have the right to help if he is incapacitated or if he has no income, and that is also the obligation of the authorities under the Constitution to provide such citizens. So this is a commitment to solidarity. It does not, under this Law, pay and not burden pension funds but will be paid if accepted from the Budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-18-0.u14616	... The next one is for correcting the incorrect allegations by MP Stazic. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-18-0.u14617	The Honorable President of the Retired Party said that retirement is intended for old age. That's not entirely true. This applies only to those pensions paid from the Peace Fund. However, there are a whole range of other pensions that are paid under special regulations, so you will receive a representative pension under special regulations. It won't just be an investment, a targeted investment for old age. You don't mind that your pension will be called a pension, but it bothers you that for the poorest of 640 kuna, this one would also be called a pension. ... [[/The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-18-0.u14618	Thank you very much. I'm asking you not to throw it out of the bench. If you want to fix it, it's not you, it looks like we're all MPs. If you wanted to correct it in your attempts, then I ask you to give up. Right? It is. Thank you very much. Let's move on with the debate. On behalf of MP Milanka Opačić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-18-0.u14619	Madam Vice President, colleagues and fellow MPs. First of all, I would like to say that I really think that someone said that government representatives are not present here today because this population of 58 thousand people deserves much more than one piece of paper on which only a few sentences said that this proposal was rejected with not exactly some big arguments. I think this population deserves to hear here what the Croatian government is thinking of doing to solve the problem of this category of people in our country who deserve to be solved in any way. There's been talk here about a pension for the poor. I'll just say here that we were very correct and very real. We know that the amount is very low, but we went with one amount that we consider enough arguments for the Croatian budget to finance it. We were also able to laminate here with much larger figures, but we would be in this unserious and therefore we wanted to be very real and serious in our proposal and we believe that this amount can be financed from the Croatian budget. Namely, some data along with those I have provided on certain items within individual ministries representing the transfer of citizens can be found in that section and my colleague Ljubica Lalic has said here about a drastic and large increase in the amount of the representation from which the same part of this pension could be financed. There was also talk here about this pension being a charity. I'm glad that some people here have a very large salary and their salary is not a charity, but I think it's unacceptable to talk about this category of people and about this very honest proposal, and I'm sorry that there is no solidarity for those who should advocate for the older population, there is no solidarity, and here it is said in a very humiliating way about this proposal and our will to do something to help this category of people. And I have to admit that I'm surprised that this came precisely from the order of a retired party that should no matter how people acquire rights to advocate for such an older population that has no means of life. So HDZ and HSU are the only clubs here that didn't support this law. HDZ said this solution is incomplete, but I would like to say that this, that this solution is complete and is serious. This solution and this Law was written by the former minister of labour and social care, a man who has been in the system for 4 years, who knows absolutely everything about how the pension system and the social system therefore knows the situation, knows the figures. So it's a project that's not a new date, a project that the former government was trying to realise, but we didn't have time. There's something I'd like to say about that amnesia... The amnesia of the SDP and HSS Club, dear colleagues and colleagues in HDZ, you will only have time to do what you can and what you can do, and as far as the former coalition government and here the HSS and the SDP that went with this bill is therefore not about amnesia. [[/The intruder doesn't understand.]] We in our government have shown how social senses we are. We made it possible for all the children of this country to receive a child's allowance. We have increased from 750 million to 2 and a half billion all donations to agriculture, primarily to the population that lives on agriculture. We've provided maternity compensation for all women unlike your former government and for unemployed mothers and mothers engaged in agricultural activities and we've paid back 13 and a half billion kuna to Croatian pensioners, that part of the debt that the former government has abolished you for.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-18-0.u14620	Correction, correction of the incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-18-0.u14621	So I have to correct my colleague Opačić's quote when she said the SDP was serious and realistic when they suggested these amounts because it's completely incorrect. If they were serious and realistic, they would have considered the facts first and foremost, and the fact is that the deficit last year was 6.3%. The fact is, you spent over six billion kunas in advance. So these are real facts, and that's why you were supposed to go out with proposals. If you had considered that, you would not have come up with such a demagogue proposal today.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-18-0.u14622	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative Rebić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-18-0.u14623	Well, the distinguished representative Opačić passed the Vladan River and had time to adopt this law. The fact is, and the truth is that the past government has abolished so many social rights that the citizens punished her in the elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-18-0.u14624	I thank the esteemed representative, Niki Rebić. Dear ladies and gentlemen, allow me the administration of Hina's long-awaited news. Dear ladies and respected gentlemen of the European Union's session in Brussels concluded that the Republic of Croatia is becoming a candidate for full membership in the European Union with a deadline for the start of negotiations in the first quarter of 2005. Allow me to congratulate the President of the Republic of Croatia, Mr Stipe Mesuc, the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the lead with Dr. [[Applause]] Ivo Sanader, the Government of the Republic of Croatia in previous mandates of all MPs and advisors in the Croatian Parliament in this and in previous mandates, and to express my gratitude for the sacrificed work which gave us candidate status in the process of approaching membership in the European Union. At this moment, I would especially like to thank all those who have laid their lives on the altar of the Homeland, all the victims of the Homeland War, all the Croatian defenders and all the Croatian citizens who have recognized the historic moment and are led by the first Croatian president, Dr. Franjo Tudjman, who undoubtedly has great merits and for what happened today, achieved the centuries-old dream of the Croatian people. A sovereign, independent, pro-European-oriented Republic of Croatia. This decision is the end of one historic period, the creation of an independent Republic of Croatia and the beginning of a new period of time towards full membership in the European Union. The relations of the Republic of Croatia and the European Union have been developing since the international recognition of the Republic of Croatia as an independent and sovereign state itself. Since the signing of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the European Union on 29 October 2001, the Republic of Croatia has passed a period of preparation and a hard working path towards membership and has reached standards which are set out by the countries of the future members of the European Union. I believe that joining the European Union will bring a number of positive shifts for the Republic of Croatia. such as improvement of the standard of life, cooperation and progress in all life areas. I am convinced that in this high House we will continue with a high degree of responsibility to approach the development of all the legal obligations that will stand before us in meeting the objective, which is full membership in the European Union. On that behalf, once again, I would like to congratulate the representatives and representatives of the Croatian Parliament and the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. And another announcement, Prime Minister Ivo Sanader is calling for MPs and all MPs in this high House to be held on 19 June 2004 from 20.00 to 21.15 in Banski dvors and afterwards invites all MPs and representatives to a concert that will be held at Ban Jelačić Square. [[Applause]] You'll get invitations from the official invitations in your boxes. Here's a thank you. We're moving on with our work. It's on behalf of the Libre Club, distinguished representative William Herman, please be my guest.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-18-0.u14625	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. The Libre Club agrees with all those views that warn that the issue of social policy and the issue of pensioners' position is one of the key issues not only about social stability but also about the development of society itself. We are equally in agreement that the proposed laws should also be tried in such a way that within the framework of the overall solutions, there is also a solution that is just suggesting the proposed laws, above all, the Proposal for a Law on Social Pensions. It will not be good if only through one or another political agreement with one of the political groups is resolved by the position of the pensioners. And that, at the same time, no important question is found in this more free-acted package. So the position of those under the alleged pensioners, who, in one way or another, have not actually obtained the right to retire. But they represent one significant social group that's socially declassified. Which is actually on the very edge of that social situation that needs to be called poverty or that's beyond it. It is not good, of course, and there is a certain contradiction when we talk about the proposal for a social pension law, that in fact pensions and pension insurance are trying to run social policy. This not only is the contradiction it simply does not belong to those legal frameworks of content which is liberal and democratic and content which is the endeavor to create equal chances in the beginning for all those who actually need to osigguar their place in society. No matter where they were on the social scale. But precisely because this starting base in Croatia cannot be considered so defacted that it is, in terms of odds, equal rather than because of those circumstances that are generally known from war, to conversion, and even about certain procedures in the field of social policy which were such that the treasure was said to have destroyed the middle layer or even led it to the brink of being destroyed. Here's the proposal to make social pension laws too high. I will therefore repeat that these starting grounds are not formed in such a way that they are simply equal or as regards the exercise of their rights are equal. And when that is the situation, then it just has to be the intervention of the state. This State intervention is going precisely to bring about justice, social justice, in these situations of social depression or social uncertainty, as this social group did. If our Constitution records that we are a state of social justice, then there is no doubt that this is not a moment of opportunity, that this is not the moment to be observed separately from the general opportunities in society. This is why we also propose that within the framework of the agreements of some who have already been reached, and that those who will strive to achieve it, this social group find its place and thus simply achieve what is needed and must be called social justice. On the contrary, it would mean that only one kind of political partnership between the ruling majority and the representatives of the pensioners is in place, and this social group remains on the side. Let's just leave the circumstances that belong to the layer of dry politics, who's the promoter. Let's look at the essence of things, and the bottom line is that it's about fifty thousand people who are socially depressed, who are in a critical social situation, so if it's all about solving problems, then there's no doubt that we should face this problem. And there's one more thing. Taking responsibility for candidate status and taking responsibility for the start-up of negotiations does not mean creating an atmosphere in which there will be many reasons to celebrate, in which there will be a lot of stories about what the journey looked like and that is important, of course. But first of all, it's important to face it, and then it's a responsibility with opportunities to make it look real. Our deficit is likely to be lacking enough responsibility precisely at this zero point called to obtain candidate status and set a deadline for negotiations because it is not on the other side of the Slavica honey and milk and every guaranteed salary of 5,000 euros. However, on the other hand, the Slavula remains and this group of socially depressed stubbornly repeats it, which should have not only understanding but also responsibilities to therefore deal with this status and with the established deadline, as the situation itself requires. The Club LIBRE therefore proposes that, within the framework and the political arrangements that exist between HDZ and HSU, a place also be found for the solutions offered by the SDP Social Pensions Act. Let it not be a rival relationship, let it be a relationship of responsibility and disciplined conscience towards the very essence of the problem. Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-18-0.u14626	I thank the esteemed representative Herman. On behalf of the HNS club PGS Antun Kapraljevic. Dear Representative Kapraljevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-18-0.u14627	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. I thought I'd start talking about this right away, and I can't help but mention Mr. Markovanovic's reaction to Mr. Pera Kovacevic's exposure. When Mr. Pero Kovačević said that we must look around and see those who collect in the buckets, who have nothing to live on and who are regularly in the soup kitchens and I don't know where everything is not, there have been many in the world. We know there are people like that in the world. Are we fighting to make it as much as possible or do we want it to be as little as possible? Every day, Mrs. Chuhnil and I pass through the Treshnivac's pay. Every day when we come back from Parliament, we go over the pay that's cheapest in town, so they say it's cheapest and every day we watch people buy from those leftovers and trust me, over 100 people is every day at the closing of the Treshnivac salary. And to those who do not believe it, I invite them to go along with me and the lady one day when we leave the Parliament and see what the situation is. And these are our citizens and there are at least two-thirds of those citizens who should be covered by this law. And if we're going to call that law a social pension or a social charity all one thing, let's just help these people. And it's not about a lot of people at all, it's about 58 thousand people, and it's about the 58 thousand most endangered and it's only about 640 kunas for a single and a thousand kunas if they're a married couple and it's only about a state budget of 230 million kuna. Gentlemen, let's have social sensitivity, let's not look at party colors, and let's not go out with the kind of statements she was, no government representatives, and it doesn't matter that they're not here because they've given their opinion. I'm not interested in the government's opinion at all, because the government's opinion is irrelevant. I'm even wondering why the government should give us law-writers, who make laws in the first place. By what logic should the Government manifest itself to us as well? We're gonna prescribe the laws, and they're gonna carry them out. And their contribution should be so much to submit amendments to those laws that we propose and thus should intervene in legislation. I was going to say a lot, and I'm going to end up in this way that HNS and PGS are going to support this Social Pension Act anyway, and I'm calling on others today in this solemn atmosphere, when we get candidate status, thanking all those who have contributed to this status, but I call on this solemn atmosphere to show a little European sensitivity and to declare this first reading of this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-18-0.u14628	I thank the esteemed representative Kapraljevic. Let me find out that the government's representative is here, you've probably seen it. It's the honorary representative of Stazic's turn.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-18-0.u14629	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Here today, Croatia has finally gained candidate status for accession to the European Union. I'm deeply convinced of that. Everyone in this country is looking forward to it. It also brings 58 thousand people to whom this law applies, and we would certainly look forward even more if by adopting this law we would allow them to at least, to feel at least more dignified. A little more appropriate, a little more appropriate to that European Union, which Croatia will become a member. It's a chance to give it to them today. It's an opportunity for all clubs, so the HDZ Club and the Retirement Party Club make it possible for these 58 thousand people. How does this bill come into play? Well, I think the sequence is logical. After returning 13.5 billion in debt to the pensioners, as much as possible at the given moment. Next, the fulfillment of a pre-election promise, as this law is entered into the SDP pre-election programme for the last of these elections. The SDP keeps to its promises, the pre-election promise you know is not a guarantee so that it can be given up whenever it wants, the pre-election promise is a more serious thing. The Croatian Constitution says that Croatia is a social state. According to who? It must also be social to 58 thousand people to whom this Law would apply. Because who else to be social. They're the ones who need that picture of the social state most. What this law wants. They're gonna do it so these people aren't beggars. What is being done by rejecting this Law? To stay in the status they are in. It's all true. They want not to receive social assistance but rather something called pensions, national pensions, pensions paid by the state, paid to them by all their fellow citizens, respecting that they are poor, that they have no conditions for retirement, that they have nothing to live on, that they expect from their country, we are the ones who have to make it happen, if we want to and if we understand it. The government rejects this bill. It lists two reasons. One is that the proposed social pension, although it has the name of pensions, cannot be the Institute of Pension Insurance but social care. Well, it doesn't even say in law that there should be an instrument of retirement insurance. That doesn't even say it, so it was enough to read the bill's proposal not to put this sentence into account the government's refusal. But there's one thing even weirder, why does the government bother that this would be called a pension? I've already said we have a whole series of pensions under special regulations, and this would be one special regulation, and why does the government mind that it's called a pension, which now needs to be further humiliated, offended, so it won't tell you any national pension, you'll get social assistance, just social aid. God forbid that this social aid would be called a pension, because why should we show you so little respect, why, in her explanation of the refusal of this law, the name of a pension bothers her. The second reason the government wrote is that it is necessary to analyse the welfare system, the health insurance system as well as pension insurance, generation solidarity, it is also necessary to establish the poverty limits in the Republic of Croatia. So let them determine, who forbids them to determine the limits of poverty to analyse the welfare system, so let them analyze, here's their full mandate to analyze it, but until they analyze it until they finish their analysis, these people have to eat something. They can't live with their analysis. The third reason he doesn't have in the government's opinion and that's the most indicative, in the government's opinion it doesn't say there's no money. It's strange to me, this time the government doesn't appeal to the godless deficits, as a reason it can't accept this, the government doesn't say anywhere that there's no money in the budget for it, there's money. Of course there's money, so if there's money to go to football games in Portugal or like a colleague said on behalf of HSS if there's money to increase the funds for the government's national team there's money for this. The government admits there's money, that objection doesn't stand out, so we do, and we don't. We could and we won't. That's what the government wrote in her opinion. Totally incomprehensible. I'll find it very interesting to know how this bill will go. It was seen from the club debate, everyone supported it except for two clubs. The HDZ Club and the Croatian Party of Retirement Club. Croatian pensioners' parties. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-18-0.u14630	I would like to thank the esteemed representative, Stazic. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the honourable representative Bekavac.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-18-0.u14631	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. The incorrect quote of fellow Stazic is that there is money in the budget for this SDP bill. It is true that the budget lacks money precisely because of the 6.3% deficit that the IMF has confirmed so that at the moment we cannot accept this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-18-0.u14632	The violation of the Rules of Procedure is a respected representative of Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-18-0.u14633	Article 209 It's not about any correction to the quote because I cited exactly what it says in the government's opinion. And a colleague if you have the will to replicate, so lift up a replica board and replicate so that I can answer you don't hide behind an incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-18-0.u14634	You have no right to argue on the breach of the Rules of Procedure, let's turn down the tones in today's... atmosphere. The replica was presented by distinguished representative Maja Martinčević, please be my guest.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-18-0.u14635	I'm going to use the replica institute to ask one question, or maybe quieten another tension that is in control here today, which is one theatre, pathetic that is certainly not suitable for today or this House. I'm curious that these are the same people who have nothing to eat, and who should wait until the government reads it all and discusses what you said, Mr. Stazic, what have they been eating for the past four years while you've been in power?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-18-0.u14636	Thank you. The reply to the replica, distinguished representative Stazic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-18-0.u14637	If they didn't have enough then that they didn't have enough to thank those who had converted and privatized so there was nothing left for these 58 grand. But they did get something, 13.5 billion kunas of debt back to pensioners who were created at the time of HDZ's first rule. That's what made it possible for them, and now they're given something a little bit more, ma'am. Minimum, 640 kuna is minimum. It's hard to make it clear to anyone, especially those people that they don't have the will, the political will, that those 640 kunas are given, and that 640 kunas are called pensions, not social aid.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-18-0.u14638	I would like to thank the esteemed representative, Stazic. It is up to President Ingrid Antičević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-18-0.u14639	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, for your honor of the Secretary of State, your colleagues and your colleagues. Now, this afternoon, a little bit in this candlestick's tone, it seems that the SDP Club seems to mind at all that we are now discussing some kind of poverty and some kind of pathetic thing at the expense of those, so here we are spoiling this candlelight atmosphere because we even mention them. What does the SDP Club want? The government's opinion does not honor one democratic state, one democratic government, and at least one who has the ambition to be, that is, to become a social state as much as possible. This is our constitutional obligation, which says that the state is obliged to help all those who are in trouble, who, for age or any other reason, cannot help themselves. This bill also applies to those, as it was introduced on behalf of the Opačić Club, who for various reasons for not finding out in life, various problems for which they are not to blame, but even when they are to blame themselves, the state is obliged to help these persons. And that's what it looks like you can't figure out here. The state and these people owe them their help. both for her and for those who may be guilty themselves of coming into such a situation, or have contributed to the commitment of the state has not ceased, but new obligations have arisen, which we here are bound by reference to the Constitution and we are talking about. But we're getting one thank you ruthlessly indeed bureaucratic explanation from the foreign government. It's really a delicate situation. Although something is not wanted, whether it can't or doesn't know how to do it, then this particular subject deserves at least mercy. Yes, this is also an act of mercy, and don't be afraid, you won't poverty the pension funds, we're all trying here to fill them. This is one act of mercy. For a power that is not merciful is unjust. A state that is not socially sensitive when it brings itself to the brink of destruction, no matter where it is found. The principle of solidarity is something he doesn't know, it's the basic principle of the Constitution. However, the government does not think about it in its opinion. She didn't remember that principle of solidarity. And I just think if we get that principle to the end, then there's not going to be any kind of bureaucratic or administrative thing going on and on when we're discussing this. Because just in our Croatian people, with our Croatian citizens for a long time, this feeling of solidarity has been developed for a long time and has long existed and shown its one tenacity and vitality, but somewhere lost, somewhere in transition, it looks somewhere in our haste. and may the free government and by ruling refuse, cross the provisions of a certain law, but do not cross a man. Surprise, laughter, pathetic over 58 thousand people in this country. Because the government is not a proponent. The government may come out tomorrow with some proposal that may include several hundred people, but then there will be no honor here for the secretary of state to stand, to sit, certainly ministers or even more vice-presidents of the government. They're not here today. They've been gone for a long time. From the beginning, something was coming, and later less and less, and the secretary of state came, because she was called, because it seems that the ruling could not endure, because there was almost no speaker who had not raised himself and began his very speech as to why the government was deafening on these issues. Then why are we getting into these situations? Why don't we miss one chance, where they're the poorest, where there's a lot of kids, there's gifts, and with a big pomp and cameras, let's take a picture. And then what do we do? How generous we are. No, we commit a sin of pride. It is given in silence, as we suggest and the dignity not to be, to take care of these people. But that takes care of ourselves, and of our own dignity, that is, every government that is smart then takes care of that as well as of its own dignity. However, there seems to be no hearing. There's been a lot of talk here about containers and about food around these containers. That's how you live. So he probably lives and survives these 58 thousand people, I say abandoned by everyone, by his family, abandoned by society and ultimately by the state. And how do you die? It's not rare that these old people, the poor old ones, die lit by a candle, because they wanted to warm up or a blow job. And then we'll say, tragically injured, no, they were killed by the negligence of all of us who don't take care of this. The sighs are great. Let's look at the political guide, there's almost no one who's not Catholic, even a Roman Catholic is corrected by who pleaded as a Catholic, so there's no chance that he might not be a Greek catholic, so I just don't know whose thing the names in Roman Catholic were corrected on. What? And as the message of faith is Roman Catholic, help to others. But yeah, that's all we're talking about, that's all we're talking about. And this is what's going on right now at this candlelight moment is ruining our mood.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-18-0.u14640	Thank you. You're probably excited with this candlelight atmosphere, so you said at first that what bothers the SDP Club is this legal proposal? You probably didn't mean that. We have several corrections of incorrect allegations. The first is the distinguished representative of the Judge-Thrakostane. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-18-0.u14641	Yes, Mr. Vice President, I would correct the incorrect allegations of my colleague's representative, if I were surprised to repeat her, laughing, pathetic, she looked this way, I suppose, at the Croatian Democratic Community's side, to these 58 thousand poor people by her quotes of people who look and listen. No, Mr. Vice President. Our surprise, not laughter, because pathetic comes from your speech, our surprise is directed to you personally, so your performance which I would say...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-18-0.u14642	I'm asking you to correct the incorrect allegations, you have no right to debate. For the correction of an incorrect quote, the esteemed representative of Bitunac.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-18-0.u14643	Well, counterpart Ingrid Anticevic said the government's next opinion does not honor the government of a democratic state. It's an absolutely false thesis, actually a distorted, reverse thesis, and we need to know that the government's position on this matter is the result of the work of the former government, and as she did, we all felt it well, and in particular...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-18-0.u14644	Correct incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-18-0.u14645	Well, here I am correcting. Don't, let me make it right. In particular, this reflected the lowest categories of population in terms of material status. And to talk here about faith, about crossing a man has money, he doesn't care, it's...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-18-0.u14646	Your Honor, I thank you. You've corrected an incorrect quote, if it is. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Markovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-18-0.u14647	Well, I must say, the first false assumption is that this debate is ruining the candlestick's atmosphere, which offends us a little bit. And another incorrect assumption is that you've helped the pensioners and everyone else so much because if they had, they probably would've figured it out, and they didn't notice or realize it, or maybe they didn't listen to your directive to make them feel better.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-18-0.u14648	I thank the esteemed representative Markovanovic. Replicated representative Fuček.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-18-0.u14649	My colleague Antičević, it's really very interesting as you've spoken very high heads, I could say not even in my presentation but in my sermon on the non-solidity of this government by association to the great solidarity of the former government. I had the feeling of listening to you as if you were washing your conscience because, immediately at the beginning of your term, you gave your mothers the most likely attack on your conscience, so it's interesting that right now these quality ideas are coming back to you after you've gone into opposition and you've had a great opportunity not only to abolish but also improve those rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-18-0.u14650	Thank you. Next to the line, the distinguished representative of Mayan.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-18-0.u14651	I'd like to go back to my previous favorite theme about pathetics that I've confirmed at this moment. Namely, pathetics and demagogy go very often hand in hand in bad theaters and this is a bad theater. Second, solidarity and mercy are two completely different categories that an esteemed colleague may be able to teach colleagues who have completed pure philosophy. It has nothing to do with each other, it's used in the same context. And thirdly, the most interesting thing is that solidarity in this country is lost somewhere in transition. I would say that the solidarity of brotherhood and unity has been lost which no one in this current independent state of Croatia regrets.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-18-0.u14652	I thank the distinguished representative of Mayan. For the replica, the esteemed representative Šolić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-18-0.u14653	It's wrong. I'm the one who answered the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-18-0.u14654	I saw the yellow plate.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-18-0.u14655	I'd like to correct the incorrect allegations of Agent Anticevic. It is incorrect, Mrs. Anticevic, that this government is socially insensitive. This was shown at the very beginning of the term of office when the Law on maternity benefits with three and more children was passed and you were just Mrs. Anticevic and your government, which you were a member of, abolished in the law to abolish children's extras for children with special needs. And this law that you now weigh and now you're offering you really had four years of really having this law passed because your party also bears the term "social" and it was absolutely nothing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-18-0.u14656	Thank you. Corrections to incorrect allegations have been exhausted. Next up for the debate, the esteemed representative, Leko.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-18-0.u14657	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! So it is really not possible today not to mention that Croatia has gained the status of which we have just before, and I must say that it makes me feel more responsible than a ceremony. At the same time, our responsibility here is not only for the association of the Republic of Croatia in the European Union, of course, taking care of the future of our country, and it is our responsibility and we must keep repeating the concerns of 58 thousand citizens of the Republic of Croatia who are not taken care of. Besides, our concern doesn't stop about 350,000 workers who aren't employed, no matter how and when we're going to Europe. Since I would like the debate to be conducted under our constitutional obligation, I will indeed formally say that in Article 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia in the first paragraph of the Constitution of the Republic says "The Republic of Croatia is a unique, indivisible, democratic and social state.". No matter how many debates we conduct, at what level and the fact remains that 58 thousand citizens of the Republic of Croatia are not socially taken care of. We just can't get past that fact. According to the current regulations in the Republic of Croatia over 66 years for most citizens of this country and for most professions, the precedents are being chased by de jure, so it is assumed that they are no longer working, that they are no longer working. And there's no one else, and there's no one more obliged than us to take care of them. What's the SDP Club doing? He wants to offer a system of care for these people. It doesn't matter to anyone, especially those who are in social need, what that concern will look like. Why should we keep people who are incompetent because of their age or who need to be put into social care? If we add that the principle debate of representatives of the Retired Party and not pensioners, they take it wrongly for themselves, so the parties of the pensioners, not the pensioners and the current Pension Fund, the Peace Fund is not on the principle of generation solidarity. It's not just the payment of former employees to pay the current unemployed. I would like to say how much from the budget, the state budget, therefore from taxes and other revenues of the state budget, is transferred annually to the Pension Fund. Why, by the same principle, the state couldn't take care of the fund from the state budget. That's why I'm proposing to set up a new fund, so it's not a big deal, which will fill the state and budgets of local units for the social pension category. It seems fair to me and to me according to the budget, and it's not precedent compared to the budget, and I'm going to say the human dimension of the big thing about the man. Therefore, a special fund filled from the state budget and from the budget of units of local and regional self-government. That would mean the constant concern, the continuity of the election. When I say that, and that information is also in the material that such a solution exists almost from half of the Member States of the current European Union. No, it's not immune society to get into pension funds from the budget. Especially in transition countries, and I don't see anything wrong with that. And what we're proposing might not even be 2% of the annual transfer to the Pension Insurance Fund. Are we only socially sensitive to those categories that we can talk about ourselves? Well, they don't need to be socially sensitive. They take care of themselves. So we really need to find a solution under the Constitution. The SDP club really well assessed the situation when it is necessary to separate people who receive social pensions, primarily from the foundation of years of life, and then the inability to worry and so on. So to separate such a category of people from those who are in social need, younger for some other reasons. I don't see it from a formal or legal or principled or theoretical point of view of some problems, I see a problem from a point of view, political will, even from a financial point of view, there's no problem. From the point of view of political will I really see the problem. If this is not a good model, so suggest a permanent model that applies in another way to that category of citizens, suggest. I am in favour of solving the problem in a dignified and permanent manner. This is a really good SDP club proposal. Finally, I must say that generation solidarity is the principle of retirement from work and, of course, that two should not be changed, but this generation solidarity in the Republic of Croatia is based and solidarity of the current citizens who work, make incomes and pay the budget, and let us not call on it to be a reason not to be able to provide a national pension for people over 66 and who do not have the conditions to take care of themselves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-18-0.u14658	Thank you. One notice. You can pick up in your invitation boxes for tomorrow's ceremony in Ban Jelačić Square. And here's another announcement, after consulting with Club Presidents and Club Representatives, I decided we're going to finish today with this point, we have two more registered and on behalf of the Government State Secretary, probably for the final word. So we end up with this agenda point today's session. Replica, distinguished representative of Bekavac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-18-0.u14659	I thank Mr. Vice President, so it is touching to listen to Mr. Lek and his contribution to the 58 thousand poorest people in the Republic of Croatia. I think that this is primarily about this Bill on Social Pensions proposed by the SDP, that it is not about the 58 thousand poorest citizens of the Republic of Croatia, but that it is about the 58 thousand voters targeted by the SDP, and they have had enough time in their mandate to show enough concern for the lowest categories and poorest categories in the Republic of Croatia. Well, I think it's hypocritical of Mr. Lek to raise himself in such a way to those poorest categories.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-18-0.u14660	Thank you. The answer's too late. Next, the reply to the replica, the esteemed representative, Leko.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-18-0.u14661	I'm sorry that a fellow politician understands the way he just said it and I can't help him. As convincing as I am, I leave it to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia and I do not speak at all to my colleague. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-18-0.u14662	Thank you. It's time for the esteemed representative of Zdehna Chuhnil. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-18-0.u14663	Dear Vice President, Your Honor, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. The fact is that in the last two months, we have been talking about social security for older people for the third time and what is best painted by fellow Kovacevic. The first time we spoke was when he was on the HSS National Pension Act agenda. The second time we spoke a week ago when he was on the agenda amending the law on fostering agriculture. Two categories of income incentives were then singled out, and that is exactly the part that is isolated from market economies and where we have defined two categories. One category that has been defined in terms of age and production and a new category has been introduced, which has even been called social assistance from the government for all those who are not in the first category of income and will receive 500 kuna per month. So, at the expense of agriculture, they take incentives and most often they're not at all... I apologize to her. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] According to the Social Care Act, 122 thousand citizens have the right to help support. Among them are 20,000 people over 65 who are not able to work. Which each year must prove their income by bringing in piles of documentation, piles of paperwork, which must register their assets to the State in the value of the aid received. What's worse, these people are being stegmatized as social cases and they don't know how long they'll be getting that social aid. Is it not perhaps the final time to really establish the poverty line, to define the real property situation and finally, as in 17 European Union countries, and I think that today it is especially important to highlight which social pension is provided in most countries, which is now paid to all citizens of a certain age, which is fixed, which is paid for their own citizens as proposed by this Law and which is paid out of the budget of those countries. Since such a pension is not based on the training achieved and the contributions paid, since the category has the most rural population, whether those involved in agricultural or unqualified workers who have worked seasonally failed to collect 15 years of internships can also handle their property they are willing to give for an old age pension but not for social assistance that they do not know until when they will receive. So, not for social aid they don't know how long they'll be getting. I therefore support this law in my first reading, and in the meantime I suggest that all three basics be analysed, that the number is indeed defined by those who are receiving so far, but it means from these two or three forms of assistance and that it is finally defined whether social, whether national or some other name-baptized old-age security, but certainly worthy of man. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-18-0.u14664	I thank the esteemed representative Chuhnil. And here's the last one for today's distinguished representative Jagoda Martic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-18-0.u14665	Honorable Vice President, Honored Secretary of State, Honorable colleagues and colleagues. It is safe and unquestionable that it is the right to a dignified age that it is one of the fundamental rights of every man and no state that considers itself civilised, democratic and socially sensitive cannot deny it or must make it real and enable its citizens. We know that in Croatia most citizens were lucky to work and during their working life they secured their own age or at a time when they are no longer able to enjoy the fruits of their work. However, we also have those citizens who have not been able to work or for various reasons have not worked long enough so they have not worked for a minimum of 15 years to exercise the right to retire. We also know that today is not such a rare case that employers do not report employees. People work, are happy to work and receive wages but do not think about age or think about how it will provide age. Therefore, this category of citizens who, during their working life span or during their lifetime, have failed to secure a pension for themselves has the right to retire. So it's not social aid. It's retirement. What are we gonna call that pension? We're gonna call her social or national it doesn't matter at all. So they have the right to a constant category of income that will allow them to still have a peaceful and dignified age. We must also remember that many citizens do not want to seek social assistance because of their human dignity and pride. They do it all the way around, how? That's all they know. Therefore, such a pension is not a burden for those who have worked and have been allocated to the Mirovinski Fund during their working days, so this should not be damaged by the Mirovinski Fund but would be paid out of the state budget. It's not money, it's certainly not money that the state budget couldn't handle. It's like we heard here about 200 million kunas, namely, 230 million kuna. I think that in the state budget, with a little bit of goodwill, these resources can be found, so in the end line they don't need to travel like, here's the case that a delegation of state goes to Portugal, it can be cheered up at home, and I think that's what Portugal is going to be. From the beginning, that is, only in the second half of the debate, he joined us and, that is, a representative of the government joined us. Thus, it also shows the government’s position on the matter. Someone here said, "It doesn't matter that the government's representative is gone, they gave their opinion." I think it is very important that the government's representative be at all the debates in the portfolio concerning a particular ministry, so perhaps even after this debate has been held in the Parliament and the Government would change its mind. Especially the government that is trying to portray itself as socially sensitive, so at first we remember also the suspension of the TV subscription for pensioners, the reduction of VAT and so on, but it gives up. As one of the main assets with which the government and colleagues from the ruling majority party want to show that they are socially sensitive is said to have returned maternity benefits. And one day, the Deputy Prime Minister quite helpfully announced that since 1.7, she is moving with demographics, with a programme for the demographic restoration of Croatia, and that, among other things, she listed only 3.3 programmes, which is the return of maternity benefits, the extension of maternity leave to 3 years. It would be interesting to make an analysis in one two years and see how much these measures have really been used in demographically improving the demographic picture of Croatia and how many women have used this planned maternity leave of three years because we are all aware that this puts them in a very bad position on the labour market. Therefore, there is so much about the social sensitivity of the Government and once again I am sorry that this Law did not come to the understanding of all because I think that both the Government and colleagues from the ruling majority party in the Parliament would show really, with little effort because again I say the budget would not be much damaged with this amount that they are truly socially sensitive, sensitive and in actions rather than just declarative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-18-0.u14666	Thank you. For the replica, and I am convinced with one calming tone of the distinguished representative Zdenka Babić-Petricevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-18-0.u14667	Mr. Vice President, always... I'm from the cross, from the stone. My voice is what it is and what do I do? I can't change, and especially at my age what Mr. Lucin told me, look at me at my age. I look better than the one who's younger than me. That would be the first replica. The second replica, dear colleagues, was led by Croatian Prime Minister Ivica Racan at a handball championship in Portugal in 2003, but their trip was somewhat shorter because they did not go on a tour of Fatima. Secondly, your sensitivity today as you show yourself to be full of spirit and faith, so didn't you have a mirror here for 500 days that the Croatian police officers were in the chapel of St. Mark? Was it then your situation, then your souls and hearts cried for them? Don't talk about something you don't feel or can't answer for. You had a chance to be more responsible for four years. You have not shown yourself to the Croatian people as a social party and they have replaced you. If you're lucky, maybe in 40 years, you'll be in power, so something's gonna happen.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-18-0.u14668	Thank you. I'm obviously not a good visionary. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-18-0.u14669	I still have to replicate to my colleague. I'm glad you've performed this publicly and not just what it is your custom to yell out of the bench, so I can answer you now. As for our officers, they weren't at that time without receiving, and I think it was interesting to see how this whole case ended, and why were they in the chapel of St. Mark? To honor our former government if it went to Portugal, that kind of behavior doesn't amnesty this government. It is good, then, that if there was once a bad practice to stop and maybe use those resources for far better and more humane purposes.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-18-0.u14670	I guess I'll have to warn you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, tell me which article is this?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-18-0.u14671	Mr. Vice President, I refer to Article 209, paragraph 2. My colleague didn't correct any of my allegations. She was talking and thinking about something, let me, it's got...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-18-0.u14672	A colleague came forward for a reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-18-0.u14673	Please, she hasn't corrected my line or my quote. Not even my replica, she was talking about something. Please, Croatian police officers of the Croatian police will look back on that which was 500 days of sitting almost and being locked in the chapel of St. John's Landing. Mark was the victim of the SDP.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-18-0.u14674	Thank you. Now I've had a good vision. Well, I hope we're done with the replicas, the replies to the replicas. And ended on behalf of the proposer, State Secretary at the Ministry of Economy Ms Vera Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-18-0.u14675	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, distinguished MPs and MPs. At the very beginning, I ask you to accept the deepest apology that none of the government's representatives have been following this debate since the beginning. We personally apologize for the fact that I was on a committee on the question of the pensioners, if I tell you that we are closed as in conclaves without a phone, and so I couldn't follow the agenda. The minister is on the official road, therefore, at a consultation in Sibenik. So, we're just the two of us. And you'll also admit that it's a little hard to track which point comes to the agenda, so not in the sense that we're finally justifying ourselves, please accept an apology, we'll try to make sure that doesn't happen in the future. What I have been listening to in question let me in some way begin with the creamyness of those MPs or advocates who have referred to constitutional values. On the fact that calling on a haystack constitutional value that Croatia is a social state. Justifying perhaps some other opinions in relation to this proposal that do not erode the proposal immediately as if it were social insensitivity or as if it were the Government of a Coca that did not respect the principles of the social states. Every country to return to the field of profession is a social which, as well as Croatia, has a certain legal and institutional infrastructure, in the area of social security of certain fundamental social risks, among which there are certainly ages and diseases, disability but in recent times and poverty. Therefore, all that is in this context, this infrastructure which in a certain way provides such social risks, is immutable to the social state. That the Croatian social state also confirms the European Commission's opinion if you carefully read the opinion it is referring to in the broadest sense, then you will see that Croatia has made a tremendous effort of 90 to build its infrastructure in an appropriate way compatible with the European Union system. We have a lot left, one of the important segments of the issue of social security will certainly be the issue of social exclusion or the risk of poverty. The risk of poverty not only of these categories which are therefore in praise of the SDP proposal. So not only these but also other much broader contexts and much wider categories of people who will find themselves or potential themselves at the risk of poverty. It must not only be those who do not make the revenues that can be those who make the revenues but not at a satisfactory level. I would not agree with the claims that I heard if there was no time for such a legal proposal as you, Mrs. Opacic, to say that this legislative proposal was arranged in the term of the last government. It's not just about time, it's about preparing the quality of the system that started in the previous government's mindset. Among other things, the fact that it is trying and is still such a project is being completed, so a national programme or a national calculation of poverty. Without that they are absurd without it are the fingertips of a hockey solution drawn from a context that never gives rise to the purpose that is in the right moss, if access is not sufficiently sussive. If access is not based on realistic criteria. If the approach does not indeed recognise, then it does not identify to the greatest extent possible the person to whom such a safeguard against the risk of poverty would apply. I assume that many of you respected MPs and respected MPs will agree with me, that we are very short on identifying some relevant or accurate elements, so if I remind you of the state of affairs, for example, only land books if I remind you of other criteria through which many income-related data can be reliably established. If I remind you of the fact that there is much missing in the family legal instrument where it could be determined what is, for example, with the maintenance obligations, how they are going. So we miss a lot of things. A lot of the previous infrastructure needs to be established. What we are at the end of, for example, the definition of poverty parameters in Croatia, the poverty line. Therefore, it will be necessary to voluntaryly valorise what is a minimum of income without falling into the risk of poverty. And therefore, it will be necessary to determine according to all categories regardless of what age, which are some other characteristics therefore to all those at risk of poverty, it will be necessary to determine a certain type of aid in this regard. Not a well-respected representative Leko, Mr. Zasputnik Stazic is also not here, it is not good if we continue to stick to some stereotypes by qualified social assistance as something that belongs to me not knowing about second-rate coke people or I don't know which category of social ones. The peace system is something that belongs to the neat ones who worked, and these are some marginalized not good. It's about social security, it's about social security. Today, in the modern world, it includes pension insurance, but also social security through support. Therefore, the right to social restraint does not need to be equal to the right of pension when certain criteria are met. No one needs to say so under the honor of modern societies ensuring the risk of poverty. And they'll have to secure it. So in the context, the government felt that this proposal, which was commendable in its objectives and where it was heading. It is not comprehensive that much more needs to be done first of all to have good parameters and good assumptions that the system for risk of poverty as a legitimate social risk that must be found for understanding, for solidarity, so that the risk can be eliminated. So that's what actually is the essence of opinion. And you, Mr. Representative, are right, so also in the opinion of the European Commission when it comes to our system. There's a social fund just being mentioned. So that's something that the government is definitely planning, right in this context that I said. This one risk that we do not have yet covers how it should be covered so that it will certainly be expected. We'll have faith, by the end of the year there will be known parameters from the poverty test, and it will have to come to a lot to say a more integrated consistent proposal when it comes to the risk of poverty. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-18-0.u14676	I thank the secretary of state, Mrs. Veri Babic. On behalf of the promoter, the esteemed representative Opačić. ... I'm sorry, the correction of an incorrect quote by the esteemed representative, Leko. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-18-0.u14677	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I wouldn't be correcting a respected secretary of state if it weren't for a group of qualifications I wasn't talking about. In my presentation, I did not refer and qualify for categories of people in social need either to plus or to minus, not to the first category or to the second category, but to distinguish people who, with the basis of age of life, life, are really a question of man's dignity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-18-0.u14678	I'd like to thank the esteemed representative, Leckie. On behalf of the promoter, the esteemed representative Opačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-18-0.u14679	Mr. Vice President, Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. I think it was really good that after the whole day when we're discussing this proposal, so the National Pensions Act, we get one such quality explanation when we get it from you now, unlike the government's arguments that are unquality, squirm and truly unargumented in rejecting this law. You have in some way confirmed what I have said here that the former government has therefore begun a very serious project of national calculation of poverty, and here you are saying that it is now somewhere and at the end and that then it can also go into a very serious and comprehensive solution to the problem of this category of people that we are talking about here today. However, I would like to say here in front of the SDP club as a legislator of this law that, after today's debate, we understand HDZ for which we do not accept this law, but we do not understand the Croatian party of pensioners that was against this law. A party that should primarily fight for the rights of third-aged people. We regret that the Croatian party of pensioners came out here with qualifications that they called basic means of survival a charity. Yes, 640 kuna is small, it is difficult to live with 21 kuna a day and unfortunately with these 640 kunas monthly there will be a lot more people here today, many MPs are talking about, who will look somewhere in the market for something else they could use for their diet because it is really hard to live with 21 kuna daily. Unfortunately, though, this limit of 640 kuna is something that stems from the pension system, namely those who have made contributions to the funds have so much of the lowest pension, therefore it is somewhere a limit that can no longer go for this category of people we talked about today. Indeed, there is no talk in the government's opinion about how there is no money to implement this law, which means there is money, but there is no will to solve this problem. There is no will to help and protect the minimum dignity of this category of people. And in the end, just one more sentence. In the SDP, we believe that the rejection of this bill is not a rejection of the SDP bill but a rejection of the 58 thousand poorest people whose problems should nevertheless be found in ways to resolve. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-18-0.u14680	Correction of the incorrect quote Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-18-0.u14681	I am correcting the incorrect assumption that the government has no will and that HDZ has no will to solve this problem, because we have just heard from the secretary of state very argument which are the real reasons that one comprehensive analysis should be made, that the system should be fully searched and found the best solutions, and this ad hoc SDP solutions could also be made during the past SDP government. If you wanted to do this, ad hoc solutions that really have no basis either in proper analysis or in proper approach.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-18-0.u14682	... a few notifications. [[Specially enabled.]] Well, here we are this week's work, so I hope we've also denied the esteemed representative Herman. I am sorry that he is not here when he said that Parliament's leadership is not here, yet part of Parliament's leadership here, Vice President Doma Arlovic, Vice President Adlesic and my little one. I hope we've successfully brought this week's work to an end. I thank you for I would still say tolerable atmosphere during this working week. Resume session scheduled for 30.6. It is up to the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Health Insurance Act, the Proposer of the Club of Representatives of the SDP, first reading, P.Z. No. 66. And finally I want you to enjoy a pleasant weekend with your friends, families in a country that is an official candidate for membership in the European Union. Thank you. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-18-0.u14683	Proposal for a social pension law, first reading, P.Z. No. 66. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposals of the working bodies, I am voting on the next conclusion. The proposal for a social pension law proposed by the SDP Representatives Club is not adopted for the reasons set out in the opinion of the Government and the reports of the working bodies. Who's in favor of this conclusion? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? I find that with 74 votes in favour, 36 against and 7 abstentions, the proposed conclusion has been reached. We are going to - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Health Insurance Act - Proposer: SDP Proposer Club, first reading, P.Z. No. 67 The legislator is the SDP Representatives' Club. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply to the adoption of this law. The debate was conducted by the Committees on Law, Family, Youth and Sports, Finance and the State Budget. You received the reports at the session. The Government of the Republic of Croatia delivered an opinion. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Dear Representative Davorko Vidovic on behalf of the promoter. Here you go.
