ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-14-0.u22988	Mr. President, I would on behalf of the Croatian Party Club only be entitled to something if I could. Mr. President, recently, Mr. Milorad Pupovac, a parliamentary representative in the Croatian Parliament, has made a daunting charge against the Croatian Government which I must say is made up of his party.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-14-0.u22989	Thank you very much. Let's get to the agenda.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-14-0.u22990	Mr. President, I guess I can say something on behalf of the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-14-0.u22991	Let's get to the agenda. Thank you very much. That doesn't belong in the agenda.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-14-0.u22992	Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-14-0.u22993	I'm asking the Secretary of Defense to take his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-14-0.u22994	On behalf of the club, Mr. President, I'm looking for a 15-minute break.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-14-0.u22995	Here you go, Minister!
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-14-0.u22996	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! The annual report on the preparedness of the defence system, the implementation of the Staff Policy and the overall state of arms forces for 2003 has been drawn up by the Ministry of Defence in accordance with the provision of Article 10. Defense laws. By fulfilling the obligation set out in Article 16 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the I have submitted an annual report on the readiness of the defence system, the implementation of human resources policy and the overall state of arms in the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Today, the Government of the Republic of Croatia submits it to you esteemed representatives of the Croatian Parliament for discussion and adoption. I just want to remind you that until the Law of Defence was passed in April 2002, there was no legal obligation to submit such a report. However, even after the adoption of the Law on Defence, the report under this name was not presented to the Croatian Assembly in its plenary session. Only what the Parliamentary Committee on Internal Policy and National Security discussed on 5 February 2003 was the report on the state of play and on certain current issues of the reconstruction of the Ministry of Defence and Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia. After that, reports at the Ministry of Defence prepared an annual report on the preparedness of the defence system for 2002, but it was not sent to the Croatian Parliament for discussion and adoption. The report in front of you, gentlemen, is showing the readiness of the defence system in 2003 objectively showing the state of the defence system before parliamentary elections with a brief indication of what has been done and what is now done. The report consists of eight wholes which I will briefly present and explain. The security environment and the conditions in which the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia and the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Croatia acted in 2003 characterized political and economic instability in the countries of the region that creates certain non-traditional threats to national security such as organised crime, terrorism, illicit drug trafficking, opiates, weapons and people. Such a situation in which none of the countries in the Republic of Croatia's environment poses a direct security threat will mark the further closer future of the region. A particularly current threat is a threat to global terrorism because global terrorists can be associated with regional radical groups and organised crime bearers. A good presentation with expert and public debates, justification and accession to NATO membership as one of the leading foreign-political objectives of the Republic of Croatia is the task of executive authority. However, I also expect all-out assistance from the parliamentary committees as well as from you gentlemen. The state of combat preparedness of the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia shall ensure that the role and tasks and strategic documents in the area of defence and national security are met despite material, financial and personnel restrictions. The difficult tasks of the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia are the reconstruction and training of troops for combat and peace operations. By March 15th this year, the time when this report was written was set aside by a total of 8000 251 persons, 19 generals, 374 senior officers, a thousand 812 lower officers, 2 thousand 676 officers and 3 thousand 365 soldiers. As a result of the reduction of the defence budget based on NATO's recommendation, the process of reorganising the reserve composition, the abolition of 17 reserve units of type B and about 70,000 reserves, respectively. Trend requires civil service is a military deadline in a steady increase and this represents a certain obstacle to the mobilisation of the full. Due to limited budgets, it is not significantly invested in the modernisation and development of the logistics system of the Croatian Armed Forces, however, the process of accepting NATO standards in the logistics system has begun with systematic maintenance planning at the level of the Croatian Armed Forces' logistics and equipment. The command and troops of the armed forces are faced with a problem of obsolescence, inequality and slow renewal of existing combat techniques so that a tank of armed forces is an average age of 35 years. Croatian Air Force and anti-aircraft defence have problems with regular maintenance and remonting of funds. Most of the resources for the remont are spent for the purposes of the fire season and medical translation of civilians. Significant results have been achieved in training and training individuals and forces for peace operations. So far, the partner goal of the military police leadership has been fully achieved, the fourth rotation is now the task of an armored peacekeeping mission in Afghanistan, and at the final stage, at the time of writing the report were the partner goals of PGL 046 light pedestrian company, PGL 4 000... ABKO's decontamination and PGL 956 forward artillery monitor, PGL 47 demining engineering line. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The situation in the area of defence preparations is not satisfactory. Although the 2002 Defence Act has made more significant moves to regulate the problems of defence preparations achieved in no way can we be satisfied. Just as the old model of defence preparations normably arranged in 1993, and the novelty of 1997 did not in practice revive the same fate experienced this new model and did not revive the adoption of the law. Despite the normative assumptions reached for the implementation of defence preparations until the start of the new government's mandate in late 2003, only the military component of the defence was developed while the civilian component supporting the military component was neglected, which could continue to lead to an uncoordinated response of the defence preparers in the event of major crisis situations. However, although the defence plan as a basic plan document, on the basis of which all other defence plan holders and prepare to plan and coordinate their actions, has not been brought forward intensively to the preparations that are the prerequisite for its adoption and which I will look back later on in the presentation. The state of completeness from the aspect of expertise and compliance with the prescribed standards presented through the planning documents in 2003 is shown in a tabular manner and refers to the breakdown of the total number of state in the Ministry of Defence and the armed forces with the status of 1 February 2004 for reasons why personal data are constantly and daily changing. With regard to the equipment and modernisation of the armed forces, they can say that in most parts of the armed forces the funds and equipment are not compatible with NATO standards, so in the situation of limited financial opportunities to equip new funds it is necessary to design projects that will ensure modernisation when financial conditions are obtained. The armed forces of the Republic of Croatia are equipped with a dynamic that does not ensure their proper and timely modernisation. However, many projects are successfully implemented this year. On the basis of the 1999 contract, five radar monitoring systems EPS 117 and three operational centres were contracted. The five radars and three operational centres were accepted by the manufacturer, but for the actual completion of the project, the remaining two locations were resolved in the final phase. On the basis of the 1998 contract, four Peregrin radar systems were contracted. The first radar system was not submitted due to observed deficiencies from the last field survey. During 2004, the manufacturer is expected to remove the observed deficiencies until the end, and this has already been done at the time following the invitation of the defence ministry. The equipment of members of the military police for a peacekeeping mission in Afghanistan has been carried out, the equipment of two warships with modern communication equipment for an international vessel and so on. Scientific research activities support the defence planning system at the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Croatia and in the armed forces, it takes place through the Institute for Research and Development of Defence Systems. Within his competence during 2003, the Institute conducted 14 scientific research and development projects, seven of which were implemented and seven were under way. 21 research development projects are planned for the period 2004 to 2005. Unfortunately, because of the lack of funding for research and development, only about 0.2 of the defence budget is spent 2% of the defence budget, which is extremely low compared to another democratic state. For example, over 15% of the defence budget has been invested in this area. Given that this area has long been neglected by the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Croatia and the armed forces are taking a number of measures to improve the situation in this regard, and that this institute would be recognised in the development of military scientific research activities. In view of the financial support set by the 2003 targets and the projection of the implementation of support in the current year, it points out that by reducing the share of the defence ministry's budget compared to the gross social product, and the state budget of the Republic of Croatia has drawn closer to the average of NATO countries. To finance defence tasks in 2003, the planned funding did not necessarily ensure investment in the modernisation and development of the armed forces of 73.14% was spent on staff expenditure and the remainder of 26.86% on material costs. As well as according to the Ministry of Defence's 2004 financial plan, 70.37% will continue with the staff-separation programme, and reducing the cost of salaries to create future conditions for investment in equipment and modernisation. With regard to the normative arrangement in the area of defence, words can be passed during 2003 by several laws and sublaws, as well as other documents. The focus, however, is on the adoption of sublegal regulations concerning the reconstruction of the Ministry of Defence and Armed Forces, and on participation in pension missions and other activities abroad. In order to bring the Euro-Atlantic associations closer together in the coming period, intensive work will begin to bring the defence rules into line with the European legislation and NATO professions into line. In accordance with the provisions of Article 6(2) of the Defence Act, Article 8 of the Defence Act shall be submitted in this United Point and a report on the implementation of the defence plan of the Republic of Croatia and the implementation of the defence preparations. The report consists of four wholes, which I will briefly comment on. The situation in the area of defence and preparation, as I have already pointed out, is not satisfactory in the previous report in the armed forces. At the beginning of the new government's mandate in 2003, only the military component of the defence was developed, while the civilian component supporting the military component was neglected. It is only during June 2003 that the seriousness of the dissatisfaction in the field of civil defence and the Ministry of Defence has been addressed by other authorities of the state administration and defence preparation holders in order to carry out the tasks of their work. However, those steps did not receive satisfactory results by the end of the year. It should be stressed that the 2002 Defence Act first defines the concept of civil defence as a component of the defence system and determines only the meaning of the defence plan. However, the plan to defend the Republic of Croatia, as a basic plan document, on the basis of which all other holders of defence preparation planning, plan and coordinate their actions have not been adopted. The defence ministry has on several occasions developed parts of the defence plan under the defence ministry's jurisdiction. intensive preparations are under way for the adoption of this basic plan document, and for the purpose of one systematic approach to civil defence. As one of the causes of such a situation, in the area of defence planning, there is also a lack of expert personnel at the Department of Defence Planning, and other authorities of the state administration, and in order to address the perceived lack of personnel, we have taken certain personnel changes. The current activities in defence preparations, since taking office in the Ministry of Defence, are paying attention to this issue. It is intensive to co-operate with other state administration authorities to connect various civil defence components to create conditions for more appropriate implementation of civil defence measures. From the Ministry of Defence's competence in 2004 draft rules were drawn up to help improve the situation in this area. And this is the Government's proposal for a decision on the methodology of defence plans, the government's proposal for a decision on legal persons of particular importance for defence. Proposal for a Government decision on products and services of particular importance for defence, the Government's proposal for a decision on other facilities of personal importance for defence. Proposal for a Government Regulation on criteria for the selection of measures to protect the way military and other objects of particular importance for defence. At the end of 2003, an intensive work on the strategic defence review was launched in 2004. The aim of the project is to create an overview of the existing state of the defence system, to define the necessary future capabilities of the armed forces, and to create assumptions for the construction of a defence system that would be best suited to the needs of the Republic of Croatia. There was also a public debate on civil defence. Suggestions for improvements in defence preparations. The defence preparations business should become regular defence affairs in the executive authorities. The aim of this should be to undertake certain activities in the systems of job-fulfilment, in defence planning operations. A study of the impact of the current course of movement of legal persons of particular importance for defence should be carried out in haste, and a proposal for the concept of a future mode of action on those economic operators declared of particular vital interest in the defence of the Republic of Croatia. This unsuitable situation in the area of defence preparations is also a problem for the security defence system as a whole. ... operations in the strategic, normative, organisational and operational planning area should continue to contribute to the creation of conditions for better quality implementation of defence preparations. [[/the speaker doesn't understand.]] Finally, Mr. President, gentlemen, the fact is that this material was done as a review of the situation in 2003, and it may be a little late in considering but very soon in the final account for this year, MPs will be able to get acquainted with this annual report for 2004. For the sake of a message to the Croatian public in 2004, numerous developments have been made in many areas, and in line with the strategic interest of the Republic of Croatia in the defence and security system, which is to preserve national sovereignty, territorial integrity and NATO accession. All our thinking leads to the achievement of these goals, and thank you, gentlemen, for the help you will give on that path. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-14-0.u22997	Thank you very much. President of the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security, Mr. Ivan Jarnjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-14-0.u22998	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. The Internal Policy and National Security Committee's report was held at its 22nd session held on 13 October 2004 on the implementation of the plan for the defence of the Republic of Croatia and the implementation of the defence preparations and the proposal for an annual report on the preparedness of the defence system, the implementation of the Staff Policy and the overall situation in the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia submitted to the Croatian Parliament by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the acts of 12 October 2004, and united in deciding the agenda of the Committee's session. In the opening presentation of the defence minister, Mr Berislav Roncevic, a representative of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, explained the reports submitted and presented the state and problem of defence preparations in 2003 at the time of the start of the new government's mandate. Report on... The defence plan of the Republic of Croatia and the implementation of defence preparations in 4 chapters provides a demonstration of the situation in the area of defence preparations, current defence preparations activities, a proposal for improvement in defence preparations and final consideration. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The proposal for an annual report on the preparedness of the defence system, the implementation of the Staff Policy and the overall situation in the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia shows the status of the defence system for the past year, providing concrete programmes and activities for the work of the MRLs and the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia. The maintenance and further development of the fighting capacity, efficiency and economics of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, which acquire the characteristics of which will be able to integrate into Euro-Atlantic defence integration, has been presented. He also gave a brief explanation in certain chapters of the report. The representative of the Government of the Republic of Croatia concluded that the aim of the implementation of defence preparations in the Republic of Croatia was to create the basis for an urgent, planned and flexible and particularly effective support and action of the Republic of Croatia in different forms, threats and national security, in various crisis or emergency situations in peace, and in direct war and war conditions. After the discussion, the Committee unanimously decided to propose a conclusion to the Croatian Parliament. The report on the implementation of the defence plan of the Republic of Croatia and the implementation of the defence preparations and the proposal of the Annual Report on the preparedness of the defence system, the implementation of the Staff Policy and the overall state of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia is hereby adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-14-0.u22999	We're going to continue the debate. On behalf of Klub HSS, a respected representative of Ante Markov.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-14-0.u23000	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. If you read some Croatian press this morning, you could in any case get a picture even if it was a neighbouring country that it was not acceptable. The evaluations presented in today's presses in terms of the situation in the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia are not appropriate, any serious person who wants to objectively look at an issue certainly believes that this is not the right way to call the situation in the armed forces as it is not. But I think this is exactly the opportunity to see what's happening. That's one reason, and the other reason is also unacceptable that the minister certainly knew about the views in the daily presses had no reason and I think he should have had because the occasion existed, to deny the accuracy of such writings. Because so far, there has been very similar information that has appeared in the sense that no means of transport is in place in Croatia. YES, no aircraft is capable of performing their role. If no helicopter was able to fly, it was defunct and it proved to be not the condition. BUT when such things are not responded, a message is sent that the condition of such or of course may be worse. This report on the readiness of the defence system should have served to ensure that indeed the public and the Croatian Parliament finally opened up a debate on the situation in the armed forces to determine what level of readiness of the armed forces, what kind of human resources were implemented, what was created, and what had happened but of course after that assessment which would certainly not receive plus, in terms of the real situation, it is clear that what everyone expected and how this bad situation turned into a good condition. Of course, when it is not responding to such a fact which has been presented, then it is right to ask, and the question is that we have not responded to it nor to the fact yesterday where it was stated that part of the territory of the Republic of Croatia is its own, then a picture can be created of one incomparability which has a deeper implications and which has a deeper lack of understanding of the role of the state, the role of Parliament and the role of all those who are in charge of protecting the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. The proposal itself for an annual defence system alert report in its 8 points is disputing everything that should have been shown in this material. But two facts are imposed as key topics. The first question is redecoration. The reconstruction of the armed forces, which began to raise a responsible question as to how the victorious army that was created during the Homeland War and which unquestionably defended the country and created the conditions for all segments of the state to be discussed in peace, but also about the armed forces. It can come in one of these underestimating ways through both the press and through the views and position to become the target of all those who, in one way or another, still want to discuss Croatia differently. The question is, why? This material absolutely confirms that the situation in the Armed Forces is not good. That the reconstruction was unfortunately not completely or completely completed and that it had not fully fulfilled the basic functions he wanted. The second issue of care carried out through spectrum was largely successful and he produced results and, unfortunately, in this facet of reorganization and care, it was evident that the efficiency of the armed system was affected and that today it is exposed to all the risks that exist in the modern world. Of course, in this material it is very clearly trying to sharpen what the role of the Armed Forces is today, what are the challenges that have changed, what are the threats that have grown, which are potentially threats that are no longer present. Of course, the reconstruction of the Armed Forces in civil conditions, in conditions where we strive to get close to those systems that are present in the European Union, when we want to get close to NATO standards, when we want to organise the armed force of the Republic of Croatia that needs to be requested and which should and require certain different behaviours, but also different direction of action, when it is evident that our Armed Forces can only be developed in terms of strengthening those elements that are relevant for the development of civil Croatia, but that the basic and fundamental tasks of the Armed Forces are not at risk, and that they are an integral pillar of the security of this society, but also a threat to all the challenges that have changed, but also by reading this state of the Armed Forces, they absolutely find reasons for their satisfaction. It is these threats that today threaten in terms of drug trafficking, people, terrorism, everything that finds a good foothold precisely in systems that cannot be integrated with security to meet these challenges of the country and these areas are becoming a target, becoming a soft ground where new challenges can be moved, where they can ultimately happen and, in terms of this European integrated security system, make up a bad, bad part that is at risk. In terms of the development of an even three components of the Croatian Army, we at the HSS Club hold that it is particularly important, given the sensitivity of our marine part, given the fact that we have begun to implement the ecological and fishing zone, unfortunately in one extremely unacceptable way, because we can practically not implement the content of the decision, we can activate the measure, but the content of the decision still cannot be implemented. We believe that it is necessary to do so as soon as possible and that is why the issue and development of the Croatian Navy are being imposed, in which way and with which it must develop. It is clear that the situation in the Croatian Navy is bad, that technical means and resources have worn out and that in this sense it does not provide a divine sense of logistics or future coast guard or an integrated defence system at sea. However, it is precisely the development of the Croatian Navy that can achieve that protection, but the Croatian Navy is then indeed finding its place in the coastal protection system and it unifies things through its resources, through its technology and through its overall infrastructure and should represent the skeleton of the future coast guard without having to exist those dilemmas or broken spears about whether it is a civilian or military service. It may be a civilian, but certain infrastructures within that civil service must have a military hodogram, a military apparatus addressed to the Croatian Navy, because it is precisely the only reason that we can seriously invest in the Croatian Navy, so that we can protect our part of the space and teaching on this is the development of the Croatian Air Force which absolutely needs to be in the function of this control, but also the rescue function, the protection against the prevention of elementary disasters, is also one of the essential ingredients that modern Armed Forces have. It is therefore necessary to further develop the strengthening and empowerment of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia on these foundations. The question of the second part relating to the report on the defence plan of the Republic of Croatia, of course, is that, it is said, that we do not have a practical defence plan, we only have a plan of preparedness from the 91s and a specific development of this plan that has never been revived and that, of course, it is necessary to adopt a defence plan, clearly with one civilian character that should have a pregenial effect on all those possibilities and elemental disasters and contingencies that can occur in the modern world, and for which it is important to have measures of the defence plan, which will list in itself all ways of activating the effectiveness and of all those participants and entities, but also the competences that will be agreed, if these measures were to be activated. It is good that this material, both of which were found at the debate in the Croatian Parliament. Of course, it would be even better if he were even fresher and he had, to reach out to today, to see from the totality of the situation in the Armed Forces, so that the measures that would be followed would be more effective, but that Parliament could continue on time and with full responsibility take those measures that are important to change this situation. But to change the system of philosophy of thinking about the future character of the Armed Forces, the role of the Armed Forces, because it should never be forgotten that in the world in which we live, today's global security or the lack of certain external dangers, does not mean that in 10 years, it does not mean that in the future there will be any new or some old threats that can once again threaten the foundations of any country, including Croatia. Therefore, it's a fundamental task from and it's the first role of the Armed Forces, which is to defend its own country, never to be, to get a second or third place. It is always in the first place and regardless of the current circumstances that say that the challenges that existed, that they are now gone, they must never be ignored. They must never be removed, because we know that the overall political, military and security situation in the world has changed very quickly and that there have been changes that have often been known to endanger and activate new dangers that would have been overcome and in case you did not have adequate answers, history is numerous, such examples never ended well at that time. That is exactly how I would like to say that the HSS Club will support these two reports and expect very clear views, above all, on these articles that we could read today, but that we expect the Government of the Republic of Croatia to develop a whole programme, not only to re-establish the Armed Forces, but rather to develop a defence plan that should define everything that has been said here in the sense that it is missing and that this Parliament should have such materials as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-14-0.u23001	Thank you very much. I've got one correction to an incorrect quote. Mr. Representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-14-0.u23002	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, my colleague Markov keeps telling me how the reshuffle was started, how the reshuffle was done. We've never even started to reshuffle the Armed Forces. We were just doing a reduction. In order to work on the reconstruction of the Armed Forces we must have a defence plan, we must have a plan to use the Armed Forces and we must have a long-term plan for the development of the Armed Forces. And we congratulate the Secretary of Defense for boldly submitting this report because it's the only way for him to become Minister of Defense, not for him to be a minister without a portfolio tomorrow. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-14-0.u23003	Thank you very much. Minister, Mr. Berislav Roncevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-14-0.u23004	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Just a brief review of Mr. Markov's exposure. Defunct the accuracy of the article as it is today in part of the Croatian press related to this report. In all situations where incorrectly reacting to incorrect data in the Croatian press, the Ministry of Defence reacted through its Public Relations Service. There are questions from both the press and the citizens and some of the situations we confirm. The extraordinary events that happened and we make it clear and loud, that's what happened in our system. If you're referring to the morning press that came out this morning, I simply had the need before you Assembly representatives to discuss the parts of this report, and later to tell the press our vision, I am telling our vision of this problem. I'm saying, this is the 2003 report, the state of 2003. I felt it was incorrect in the course of the debate to highlight what was now done. It was done very much in 2004, but it will be the subject of the debate as I announced with the report, for the Annual Report 2004. The reconstruction began in the term of the former government, first by seizing out the staff because it is logical that in the pursuit of a modern and efficient armed force we can no longer handle the number of soldiers we had at the time. We're doing a reconstruction through a strategic defense review. It is being done in several stages, since we have a prominent NATO ambition towards and NATO experts' consultations. The basis of a high-quality strategic defence review is this, an initial analysis of the situation. I'm realistically looking at my problems and current achievements. We have done so at government level and there is a government decision, decision on future missions and tasks of the Croatian Armed Forces and tasks under 1.1. So, the first tasks and basic tasks are to defend the sovereignty and territorial integrity of the Republic of Croatia. In the Navy. The Navy is a branch that the Ministry of Defence sees in the further development of the Armed Forces, but with one modified role, according to changed security risks, because all relevant indicators of experts and our security services clearly indicate that Croatia is not in the long term exposed to direct armed aggression and must address future tasks, and one of those in the part of the Navy branch is also protecting Croatian interests in the Adriatic. Through the co-ordination established by the Government, the Croatian Navy actively participates with its personnel potential, as well as with technology, means, operating ships that carry out their duties daily and is absolutely incorrect from this report to draw the conclusion that no ship is sailing, no aircraft or combat or transporter performs its function. This is the 2003 Report and the percentage of regularity is based on a number of material resources because we do not have the need to expect, in the future appearance of our Armed Forces, we already made a decision in 2004 on spending and putting aside the use of unnecessary number of these funds so that the state of the technique is not what it is in this Report because it is for 2003. And in the 2004 report, you will have indicators of what was made and what was the situation in 2004. Just as objective and as realistic as this. Unfortunately, some of the authors of the articles that were published today have that information because they are not unknown data, but I don't know why they showed this today as if it wasn't real.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-14-0.u23005	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Mr. Representative Kresimir Ćosic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-14-0.u23006	Dear Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. Here are a few words about the Annual Report, about the preparedness of the defence system of the Republic of Croatia, the implementation of human resources policy in the overall state of the Armed Forces. This report was the obligation of the Croatian government to the Croatian Parliament, which was based on the Law of Defence. The report shows the state of defence system for the past, i.e. in 2003, of concrete programmes and activities of work and presents further development of the fighting capacity, efficiency and economics of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia. The holder of this document is the Defence Inspectorate of the Republic of Croatia in cooperation with the establishment units of the Ministry of Defence and Armed Forces. I stress especially, so the holder of this document is the Defence Inspectorate, therefore, I would like to stress that this document was not written by this government but written by the Chief Defence Inspector with his associates. And therefore it has a high level of objectivity, independence and justification and therefore the document should be accepted with all its facts and findings. Certainly, I would like to start by saying, especially the recognition and the Minister of Defence of the Republic of Croatia for showing courage and willingness for such a document to appear at the plenary session of the Croatian Parliament and to meet the Croatian public. This is what is called transparency, but for this kind of transparency when it comes to security affairs and the situation in the Armed Forces, a certain kind of culture and responsibility should be developed and I will also say a few words about it. This report has been delivered to the President of the Republic of Croatia for years in very similar form as the Supreme Commander of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, the Prime Minister, the Chief of Staff and in almost similar or identical form, the Croatian public has the opportunity to see it. Of course, I was also talking about a culture that is related to security and defence affairs. Bringing out information, interpreting information, and in this sense I will be free to say that this document still lacks a kind of more quality and responsible review for a number of reasons. Here, I only mention a few illustrations so that those who do similar documents on these facts next year will take care of them. On page 3, there are risks of joining NATO membership in the Republic of Croatia. Access to full NATO membership is Croatia's strategic goal. For these reasons, I would say, it is not too wise or too diplomatic to talk about risks related to the accession of the Republic of Croatia to NATO. Well, here's another quote: "the mention of the goal carries certain risks," I quote: "excessive specialization stemming from," quotes, "politically conditioned development of defence capabilities. The end result can be a diminished capacity of the defence system of the Republic of Croatia for self-defense, since joining NATO implies giving up some forms of the Armed Forces organisation, whose role NATO assumes, and which are necessary in self-defense." This has its basis, but certainly such debates and such dilemmas do not deserve to be a team in such a document more clearly declared strategic political objectives of the Republic of Croatia, between these two extremes, the issue of whether we will know optimally and responsibly carry out the structure of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia. Furthermore, when it comes to security issues, there is really no reason to mention Macedonia in the context of instability or when it comes to security issues, to talk about a suitable ground for strengthening organised crime activities, for example in parentheses, for example, Serbia, or radically sponsored groups for terrorist activities towards third countries in the region and Europe, for example. Bosnia and Herzegovina, of course, saw this document by the foreign minister, would not have appeared in the document. So I want to say this. Through this public debate, we will create and develop our culture when we discuss such things. On page 37, we also note that the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia do not develop any kind of means of killing for their own needs especially new generations of artillery, rocket and anti-aircraft missiles. It can't stand in such a document, I don't want to talk about it too much, further Armed Forces don't have fuel supplies except for daily consumption, reviewing such documents is necessary. Problems. We will all talk these days about objective problems faced by the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia but when we talk about problems, I must take care of the situation we were in in 1991. In 1991, gentlemen, we had nothing, we were disarmed, we had no technical means, and from 1991 to 1995 Croatia built a respectable armed force that was technically equipped, which had commanders, who had its strength, credibility, expertise, professionalism and it was the state of the Croatian Army in 1995 and these facts must always be respected. Today especially when we talk about problems, when we talk about these problems then we must again take care of the conditions in which the Croatian Army was created we did not have in the mood all the things we would like to have, the most modern armed systems, modern technique, modern-run rocket systems, modern artillery, modern communications systems and everything we should have done and we didn't have. And under these circumstances, we had to use what was available to us, a technique that was unfortunately obsolete, which had a limited life span but with this technique we knew how to function and this unity of commanders, soldiers officers and officers and such techniques in the best possible way was affirmed. The state of combat technique, because of all these facts, I stress there should be nothing strange, there should be no surprise. The technology we had back then has had a lifetime of over 20 years. A tank of armed forces, the average age of 35, is technologically inferior. The age of combat vehicles, pedestrians on average for 20 years, and so I wouldn't list all of what was said in this document. The available anti-aircraft systems are out of date without the possibility of anti-aircraft protection at altitudes greater than 3,000 metres and many who write it are not even aware that missile systems for anti-aircraft defenses with a range greater than 3000 metres are only a dream for the Republic of Croatia, these are prices of several hundred million dollars, at least for a limited amount of these funds. When we talk about the Armed Forces of a modern and modern state, then I would especially like to highlight what I point out on rare occasions. The armed forces of each country are the most complex technical organisation system in one country, I repeat, the most complex organisational technical system of each country. Unfortunately, as the state of Croatian technical competence seems, the state of our industry, the state of our technologies will have the opportunity to talk in the coming days. Therefore, in such circumstances with objective limitations, I believe that what I said before in 95 was still to be highlighted as a coherent functional and effective whole. The correctness of combat technique is not satisfactory because of the limited life span, because of the state of reliability of these technologies that are mostly long ago I would say maybe 60 or 70 years but some and many earlier. And under such circumstances, the report clearly states the correctness of the combat technique, armored vehicles 85%, pedestrian weapons 95%, 90%, and now I will not list it, with all these problems the Croatian Army and with available means has power and ability. Croatian Air Force and anti-aircraft defense. HRZ and the PDO face significant problems with regular maintenance and refurbishment of funds, it is difficult to ensure the correctness of these funds over 30% again because of the exceptional duration of these funds, because of limited financial resources and because of the limited capabilities of people who today maintain, more equally high-quality, motivated and capable people who have worked in the system of the logistics of the armed forces in the Republic of Croatia, unfortunately there is no such thing. Croatian Navy, high average age over 20 years, diversity of water facilities, and technical technology obsolescence, modernisation. The objectives are defined by this document, and it is very important but more important to understand what the real goals are and what the goals are because the objectives cannot be just a wish plan and it seems to me that in this document as well as similar documents that appeared in those who were responsible for planning and equipping the Armed Forces there is the same lack, lack of feeling about how much it costs. I would now not speak here specific examples, decisions, and specific attitudes of some people during the Homeland War who wanted something that was impossible. Here is modernization, continuation of procurement and equipment of the Armed Forces troops by missile systems of a newer generation for a close anti-arming struggle as a man who created this Croatian Army system, for an anti-arming battle... with rocket systems I must say that we are now beyond what we may have been a few years ago. I'll tell you about it when we talk about scientific research in the armed forces. Then, it's about fighting in the middle and the big distances, rocket systems, shooting at night, etc. That's 500, 600, 700, billions of dollars, but money doesn't solve everything. It takes quality, professional, competent people who need to be trained, need to be trained, know how to motivate them and create conditions that they work in such a system for 20, 30 years or more and it is not easy. Modernisation of the HRZ and the PDO of the acquisition of reconnaissance aircrafts as sensors platforms, then obtain test measuring equipment retention of fighter aircraft and helicopters, etc. when it comes to modernising HRM I would say the same are expressed wishes I would say are needs, but it should be taken into account what opportunities are. What's the main problem of this planning system is you can't take a catalogue for one combat asset and read what that price looks like. The price is the only thing that comes in line when with one particular country you want to buy it from, establish such political and other relations that it is willing to sell to you and that it is ready to provide you with everything that is necessary to make such a system work. I have been and I have worked on many similar projects, in my 30s or more 30s dealing with defence issues in various positions, and I can say unfortunately that much of what has been defined here as a plan for equipping and modernising the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia is unrealistic and I certainly think more will be spoken of when a new similar document is being made. The technical problems, I want them here, since time goes quickly just to illustrate the radar we bought or the radar we bought almost five years ago. Currently in no radar position there are no conditions for the installation of radar according to... manufacturer, start installation, difficulty, all lasts long or too long. Next, about the Navy radar, just a few words. The final handover of more than 2.5 years, all of which shows how complex it is to deal with armed forces and modern modern weapons and military equipment systems and, unfortunately, in these conditions in the past four years, I will say openly the part which is particularly important to research and development in the armed forces, this condition and these conditions, people and the ability and organisations were far better form and state than it is today. Here I conclude my shorter exposure with a very clear view. The HDZ Club supports the report on the implementation of the defence plan of the Republic of Croatia, as only an objective picture is a prerequisite for changing the situation for the better. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-14-0.u23007	Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect alleged Mr. Representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-14-0.u23008	Dear counterpart Cosic said more inaccuracies, I will correct only two of the most important. First he said that in 91 we had nothing, which is incorrect. On 17 August, 91st, the late President Tudjman adopted a plan for the preparedness of the Republic of Croatia, a plan for the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia and a plan for the conquest of military forces and a plan for... considering that time. [[speaks off, can't be heard]] According to which we don't have today, be careful. And we were on August 17th, 91st. Furthermore, I must say that it is incorrect and the fact that this part of the risk of joining NATO should not have stood in the report. They should be standing. Why do they have to stand? The minister said it fine here. In fact, as soon as we enter NATO automatically, there is a danger of excessive specialization, but there is a danger of new threats. So that's what you need to know. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-14-0.u23009	First, there was an correction, this is a second opinion. Can't fix a correction. Let's move on. On behalf of the Club LIBRE Mr. Representative Jozo Radoš, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-14-0.u23010	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Minister, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. First of all, I would like to say something about this report on the implementation of the defence plan of the Republic of Croatia and the implementation of defence preparations. First of all, I welcome the evaluations that have been made, because the grades are very clear, even if, of course, they sound negative. But I think we left a long time ago an old model in which an army can't be talked about or has to be spoken positively. The only way to change things if they want to change is to speak very clearly of them, I welcome that approach by the Chief Inspectorate, which is part of the Ministry of Defence, which is then part of the Government, and not what Mr. Representative Cosic said, that it is the Ministry, that it is the part that is independent of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, it is not so. It is part of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, such as the Ministry of Defence as part of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The old model is that, and it was known to happen that old and conservative soldiers were able to work and speak, that the condition was terribly bad, but that they would complete all the tasks. It's an old model of management when the Ministry of Defense was an untouchable institution in the 90s and a little while after the '90s. Today we are mature to talk about what it's like to be able to change that situation. I therefore welcome this report and I expect that, after this is the first report to the Croatian Parliament, things will begin to move forward. The situation is really bad, but after the adoption of a new law that... on new grounds I expect these things to start to change. This report is an annual report, and I'm sorry that it appears now before the end of the year. And that's the same thing about this second report that I'm going to talk about, of course. First of all, this report is inaccurate. It's not a question, it's not strictly in the law that it has to be for 2003, it can be in half a year, or another period. But what's important for a report like this to be current. This report is not current, it refers partly to even 2004, so it is very difficult to compare periods of particular responsibility, especially those responsible for implementing this situation. I would also say about the first part of the report that I think it is unnecessary to repeat some earlier assessments, quotes the provisions of the defence strategy and the national security strategy. And I can say that it also represents some very, very problematic things that Mr. Cosic was talking about here, and I will mention some of them. So when it comes to factors that negatively affect the security situation, it's said to be the remains of old political structures. What does that mean? Who can say that if one official institution, especially the military, the Ministry of Defence, is allowed to say that the security risk is surrounded by the remains of old political structures. What's that supposed to mean? If so, then this should be made more clear, are these old political structures in the Republic of Croatia or are they old political structures in some broader environment? What does that mean? Maybe even in the army what fellow Djapic says, but of course I won't go that far. And then it's said in one part, non-war security risks with a tendency to strengthen. So it's a political instability and a parallel exercise of democratisation. Which means that actually democratisation is getting weaker and weaker. I don't know what it refers to in the Republic of Croatia or, of course, in its environment? But neither one of them is standing. Democracy is also going forward in the Republic of Croatia and its environment. Take it easy. Therefore, risks with a tendency to strengthen cannot be discussed. Poor economic progress along with the tendency to strengthen and issue refugees with a tendency to strengthen. That absolutely can't stand. Therefore, it should be very careful to write these introductory political parts. The military security risk is an independent state of Kosovo. Is it, should we say, that it's a military security risk with a tendency to weaken? So you should be very careful working with these things. Don't repeat what's known. In this introductory part, only to be warned about those aspects of the security environment and the conditions in which it operates, which are being changed or which should be particularly highlighted. Therefore, the known things from our national security and defence strategies should not be repeated, and such vague formulas should be kept that the security risk remains of old political structures. Now, something about the report itself. First things that aren't good or aren't even actually correct. It is said that the number of employees on the day of 1.2.2004, so the report goes to that year at least one part of 30 thousand 544 employees and the planned number of employees for 2004. Thirty thousand forty. What does that mean? This means that further reform in the defence ministry is not planned. The number prescribed by the relevant decisions is 24,000 977 and we are now somewhere at 30,000. The reform is not only not completed, but according to what the Ministry of Defence plans it will not be completed this year, even if the severance item plans 170 thousand kunas, 170 million kunas. It would be good for the secretary of state to clarify this fact. The requirements for civil service in 2003 are then discussed and it is said to have reached an unplanned maximum of 3 000 509 requests. It's not 3 thousand 509 requests, but 9000 711 requests according to sources from the Ministry of Defence itself. Such serious mistakes should be kept in this report. And one question that is very important and that is the issue of sickness that seems to have risen again to an unauthorized amount. Two thousand 196 people are in pain. In the years 2000 to 2002, the reduced number of long-term workers was almost 4000. That number has narrowed down to some thousand ills. Over 2,000 of these long-term illnesses are again raised by more than 75%. That's not good. It is a general pain, pain of the whole society but this pain should be the least affected by the system of armed forces and the Ministry of Defence and it should be more dedicated to this matter than this report shows but it shows that the number of illnesses in the Croatian Army and the Ministry of Defence is growing as a whole and it should at least stagnate somewhere on a thousand people or fall. But what's more important here than all of this and that's a question of the state of our combat technique and the question of actually perspective. The issue of perspective is even more important than the situation, and I must therefore show my dissatisfaction that two and a half years after the law was passed, a long-term plan for the development of the armed forces adopted by the Croatian Parliament on the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Croatia was not adopted. Well, then we can't go in any direction at all if this basic document isn't brought in this way and that's why it needs to be brought in by the Croatian Parliament. That is why the law stipulates that the Croatian Parliament brings the document then we cannot even determine at the level of the ministry any direction towards strategic development of any branch of the armed forces. It is a document that takes time but two and a half years after the law was passed when our strategic orientation within the NATO alliance was very clear Parliament should have brought this document so that it could then be easier to plan which direction the Croatian Navy would go, which would be followed by Croatian Air Force and, of course, the Land Army. This is, therefore, one of the biggest shortcomings and I expect, of course, that after this strategic review of the defence that is being done, which must be very quick to come to order and the issue of a long-term development plan so that the Ministry of Defence and Armed Forces can begin to do their job in accordance with, of course, our strategic orientations that need to be defined. We need to know what we're going to develop within the Land Army. The truth is what it says in the report that NATO's specialization reduces our self-defense capabilities but we have to choose what it is, whether it's armor, whether it's easy infantry, whether it's pro-tourquet systems and in what relationship. We can't, and for financial reasons, and we don't need to develop complete systems, but we need to figure out what it is. The dilemma is even more prominent and the issue is regarding the Croatian Air Force whether we gave up the supersonic fighter aircraft. They are a modernised treasure only to give a chance to make the right decision and to keep the pilot composition until the decision is made. But what is our main orientation? Are those helicopters? Are those transport helicopters or combat helicopters? Whether these are rocket and anti-aircraft systems which are of course very expensive what Mr. Cosic was talking about, is it perhaps a sub-sonic fighter aircraft, etc. These are very serious issues that cannot be answered permanently of course and applicable until this long-term strategy for the development of the armed forces is adopted. Equally, such issues are being raised with regard to the Croatian Navy. We only have a few new ships. All ships are very, very old and absolutely unable to meet what we expect from the Croatian Navy in terms of its modern tasks in keeping our economic belt, coast guard, etc. What kind of patrol ships will the Croatian Navy have, one or more types of ships, this is the real question and it cannot be answered without a long-term plan for the development of the armed forces and I am therefore truly sorry that it has been so long late with the adoption of this long-term development plan. I think that all assumptions are both normative and political and let our general defence strategy be such that we can make that decision already today so that it starts with modernization. Modernisation without it is not possible, it doesn't make sense, we can't start modernization in one direction and then bring a long-term development plan that will go in any of these segments in another direction. And one more thing. I'm sorry this isn't about these important issues at the level of analysis, which is a very important assessment of NATO in our structure that it's too territorial, that it's not dynamic, that it's not mobile, that we have too many commands, that we have too many officers and officers compared to soldiers. Just look at these numbers. The number of officers is 5 thousand 700, the number of officers is 8 thousand and 500 and the number of soldiers is 6 thousand 500, less than the officer and more than the officer. This can't be a model where a professional army can develop and then it's a question of abolishing compulsory military service as a ballast which, in these financial circumstances, really makes it impossible to develop a professional composition instead of an armed force. That's what you should talk about, of course. And what's the state of things today has this report talking. I'm not, of course, an advocate of bombistic writings in the paper because they seem to be going back to the old days. It's like it's being kept secret, like you don't know it. The modern system doesn't keep it a secret. Therefore, such bombistic headlines that appear periodically are not necessary. Croatian Air Force cannot even have more than two-thirds of the ready-made aircraft. The planes are always on the remont. That's the nature of it, that means it. It used to be 50%, but it's not a condition that would cause such writings. Unfortunately, today the situation is probably worse than this report shows. Why? Because this year's budget for the Ministry of Defence was dropped by nearly a billion kunas when the execution was calculated last year and the plan this year. And maintenance funds, so the money to maintain material and financial expenditures is almost 40% compared to last year's budget, so we can expect that this year alone is bad. Only worse. I really expect that in the next and the next of these reports we will be working on time. at the beginning of the year, so that in the course of the year we can potentially influence what is happening in the system itself. And because this report is obsolete and, of course, because of the contents of that report, the Club of Representatives of Libra cannot give a positive assessment of this report. Not one or the other. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-14-0.u23011	Thank you very much. Minister Berislav Roncevic called for the word.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-14-0.u23012	This report comes a little later in comparison, the annual report always refers to the year. This report is current because it shows the situation in 2003. In the way the administration is as it is and I might agree with some kind of termological inaccuracies in this report, and in that part. The sick, the sick are an interesting notion in the armed forces fell rapidly at one point in 2003 when es worked on a new reconstruction and a framework for new reconstruction. And when it was supposed to get the house so-called. The number fell rapidly in order to report the numbers to more than 1,000 within 7 days, and once a day it went and in 1500, therefore the choice was not professionally determined, people had information about certain things. In layman’s words, they broke off their sick leave and returned to this same long - term illness. It's a problem that's still on record today. We also want to develop the function of health services in the Ministry of Defence and in the framework of the armed forces, especially by the fact that this health function, or the Sanitary Service, will have a particularly prominent place in future missions and the tasks of our armed forces. The long-term plan for the development of the armed forces has not been brought in that is correct. However, we are now doing a strategic review of the defence in which we determine the current state, establishing future missions and tasks. We have established the elements of the fighting forces with which I should carry out these future missions and tasks. We're doing the current structuring force, and an optimal way of handling and commanding. The financial verification of this model We want to get a system that will be affordable to the Croatian budget. Programmes that work in 2004 are exclusively programmes that are then perspective. So it takes over the partnership goals, and that's compatible according to NATO's assessment, and what we can do as a future NATO country to use and import into the collective defence system. The attitude of officers and officers was found in 2003, it is different in 2004 and it is normal for us to adopt new technologies, how economic and budgetary opportunities give us the opportunity to get more complex ones will also go in favour of officers and officers because they will directly handle these expensive funds. The situation is not as Mr. Radoš said especially in the section referring to the share of the military equipment budget, the material of the service for ongoing investment maintenance, in the context of reducing the military budget this year. I'll tell you the comparative information given to me by my financial assistant, Mr. Budimir, whom my colleague Rados, as minister, has brought to that post and today he is doing his job properly. In a total defence budget of 4 billion and 800 and 13 million in 2003, 488 million 726 million were allocated for this item. In the nominally reduced 2004 budget, out of 4 billion and 102 million plans is 610 million, objectively some programmes will not reach the end of this year. And it's our estimate that we're going to spend $566 million on that item. Therefore, it is not an exact plight that Mr Radoš stated that, due to the reduction of the budget to the function of the material equipment of the military equipment, the maintenance of the investment spent was less than that of the nominally reduced budget for the item was achieved more. These data are transparent, you can check them at the Department of Defense, you're a parliamentary representative, and you're entitled to that.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-14-0.u23013	Thank you very much. Correction, Mr. Jose Radosh.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-14-0.u23014	Correction of the incorrect allegations, Mr. Vice President, so the minister says that the report is current, a report in which things are moving so quickly and which are late at least half a year can't be current. But it's a good idea. However, this second is an absolute correction to the incorrect assumption, I was talking about the relations between soldiers, officers and officers prescribed by the constitution. That's what's wrong. And that's what I was talking about. Therefore, this relationship cannot be different in 200.4 years because in 2004, no new book was adopted. So it's an absolutely false allegation. And what the minister says doesn't reduce the amount for material, financial expenses. This year he planned a million and 62, a billion and 62 million kuna. And last year, the achievement of this amount for material costs was over a billion and 400 million kuna. That's more like 40%. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-14-0.u23015	Thank you very much. Let's move on. On behalf of the HSPa Club, Mr. Representative Anto Djapic. And then Mr. Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-14-0.u23016	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. I would like to say a few words on behalf of the Croatian Starka Club for a few words about the actuality of the report because it encouraged me just before my colleague Radosa's debate. It is possible that this report is not current, but only for people who have been minesters, as long as they are ministers, who are more intensively engaged in the Croatian military. However, for us MPs in the Croatian Parliament, the fact that we have an open report on the situation in the armed forces is also current. Because it does, in a way, present the top of the ice dream of the situation in the armed forces in the Croatian armed forces. And that's more than enough for the assessment that this report is current. It shows quite a good picture of the situation of the Croatian Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia. And what is most important is that for the first time in Croatia, we are able to do without fear and without those expressions about stories of state interests keeping military secrets, and the like, we can talk openly about the situation in the armed forces. This is remarkable progress, and in this direction we are proudly pleased with the HSP as a result of our initiative in the Croatian Parliament's conclusion that a report on the situation in the armed forces is submitted. Today, however, it is possible to give much more open and free and political and those who are more subtle and expert in the assessment of the situation in the Croatian Armed Forces. This only report is finally going into the demystification of the Ministry of Defence and the demystification of the state in the armed forces, because in general that the mystification of the defence was wrong, I would say policy all these years, because the defence must be very transparent whenever possible in all those parts where it does not seriously violate national security, particularly national security, perhaps the work of the reporting, intelligence services and some key segments of the security system of the state, but all of this remains transparent and in this direction is the decision of the Croatian government to remove the secret markings from this report a very good move of slaughter we welcome. It is obvious that the situation in the defence system of the Republic of Croatia is not what we would like it to be, what it should be. Clearly, there can be reviews more critical, less critical, can be sought for the reasons of these or they, but something that is extremely important, something on the trail of what counterpart Cosic was saying, should be reminded of how the Croatian Army was created, how it had its "transformation" since 91st year when it was yet to be produced, so here to this day where it is located. In 95, our army was the winning army, the highly-developed organisational, humane, technical harmony, and this army was indeed high for years in the Croatian people, highly valued as the most powerful component in the Croatian people, so I would just like to remind all of us that, for example, numerous surveys of the 95th, 6th and even 7th years, said that the Croatian people of all institutions in the state, of all components, believed the most precisely in the Croatian army, because they also symbolized it, but also really represented the content of Croatian style, unity, power, energy, those accumulated who finally succeeded and created the Croatian state. However, after brilliant military victories, apparently between 95 and 2000, the transformation of the military military to peacetime failed. So, we can say now whether it could be done more or not, but the facts speak from what we have today that this whole vertical process has not been carried out most successfully, not to mention that from the beginning of the creation of the Croatian Army until today, it has been exposed to a constant special war against it, that even within the various structures in Croatia and through the media and through each other's visions it has been under a special increase in that direction in which the state of rights has been relativated and the contents of the Croatian Army, and on the other hand we would have said also the humane failures and errors that I have to point out specifically, the retirement of Croatian generals from the beginning of 2000, some of which have really just been stepped into one serious and powerful military water, I would say, in which they could still contribute to the formation of the Croatian armies, its construction and preservation of that image power and competence that Croatian army in this region. So why, therefore, do I not want to repeat what my colleagues have been saying here about the situation in the military, which is certainly not good, but we need to see what is responsible, why is such a situation, who is responsible for this in the Croatian defence system? Therefore, it is known who are responsible under the Constitution and the laws of Croatia, from the President of the Republic to the former ministers, to the Croatian Army's Staff, but of course responsibility lies well with the Croatian Parliament. And the Croatian Parliament cannot escape from its responsibility, I would like to warn that from the 96th to the 7th, we have warned that a radical reduction in the budgets for the Croatian Army will lead to the fact that the Croatian army will not be in those relations and in such a position as to fully fulfil its constitutional obligation, i.e. it will not be on the trail of the quality of the winning Croatian army that was in the 95th year, I would say to impress the whole world, at least the one who is engaged in the military and who observed it. On this occasion, I remember one, one event, that was 95, after winning and after all, there was a presidential council with President Tudjman, all ambassadors, leaders and opposition were invited, etc. And then he had his presentation to the late Defence Minister Gojko Sušak, who told an anecdote about his tour of America. He says when he came to America to some big army that must have passed a million soldiers a year, that that's when the American generals with five stars told their officers, say hello to the minister of the winning army. So that's what he said I would even be a first-rate slave that we produced during the war that we were forced to do, which we accepted, which we managed to bring to the highest levels of creativity in accordance with the technique that we introduced, which was very modest, which was already being talked about here. Therefore, we cannot escape the assessment that politics did not want or could not establish a clear strategy that we want with the Croatian Army after the completion of military operations. Today, it is also unclear what kind of defense system we need and we will. It all comes down to the story of this adaptation to NATO standards, but the defence system of the Republic of Croatia is not exclusively resolved with Croatia entering NATO alliance, and if we add the fact, in recent times a number of research is talking about the decline of the interest of the Croatian public to join NATO, then we must understand very well that NATO can only partially influence our defence system, and where we as a Croatian state, the Croatian defence system must have our whole position, strategy as well as how we want and in what way we want to build future Croatian Armed Forces. If we don't have it today, the fact is that we still don't have the basic documents needed to determine Croatia's defence system strategy, we don't have a defence plan, we don't have a plan to use the Armed Forces, we don't have the sublegal acts, we don't finally have that final law and strategy to know for the next maybe 20 years what we would like and what we would consider to meet those interests and needs that the Croatian Armed Forces Army would have to meet. Therefore, the responsibility for this must already be on those mentioned but also on those who are chosen for it or appointed or paid to do the job. Well, you don't need huge money to make documents and set a strategy. It takes either political will on the one hand and competence, the expertise of those who receive the salary to do so on the other hand. So we are standing today in a situation that cannot be assessed by good, and that is why it is a big thing that we are talking about the situation in the Croatian Army today, because this is the beginning, I would say the beginning of the final opening of a big public debate about what we want in perspective with the Croatian Army. And therefore, the result and this debate must be an incentive for all those responsible to do their job in a quality way. We have to stop waiting for someone else to decide what we're gonna do. So, it is a systematic one expectation, meeting some NATO standards, we have spoken for years, it has been talking about Croatia's military reform and reconstruction for years, and this report practically denies that quality reforms and reconstructions have been implemented, not only to talk about this relationship between officers, officers and soldiers, but we can say that more appropriate names would be a disband and a reduction, which is practically even more difficult to fulfill the function that the Croatian military has under the Constitution. That is why we expect that the Ministry of Defence is not once again encouraged by our other parliamentary party that we have to fight for the report on the situation in the Armed Forces and it would be very good if we could already hear something more concrete at this session about what has been done this year if we have assurances that the situation is not as it was last year, however, the information we have despite I would say to support what this report has come to the agenda, that even though this report is washed and ironed, it is smooth to a certain extent, because the situation is even more complex and complex, than just this report and shows it. That's why our club's proposal to be responsible for the state of the Armed Forces is a matter of haste, to determine first and foremost the strategy, to determine here what kind of army we want in the perspective. Very little is said about this Croatian soldier who created the Croatian Army, who created the Croatian state. We have met countless times with numerous people who were famous Croatian warriors who are now 32, 33, 35 years old, who have an inspective grade. Because in the Croatian Army today, people only observe whether they are perspective or unspective, and they are never... consider also the criteria to determine what is or is not perspective. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And the fact is, for example, that the criteria of the Homeland War and participation in the Homeland War have never been valorized in a way that would have to be valorized, that is, in that point, if it exists in determining the criteria that those who created this army have certain points, I would say, possibilities. To be perspective, not just having or not having a civil school determines someone's perspective or imperceptibility. That's, that's not on our trail, I'd say, military structure, or we don't even have military doctrines. What should the military doctrine of the Croatian Army do? Based on which parameters, basics, every modern army in the world or any more powerful armies in the world have some kind of doctrine that they gather around. Is our doctrine the military value of the Homeland War? We're supposed to be, but we don't have it anywhere on paper, we don't have it so systemically that we can talk about it competently and I think that's both the role and the Ministry of Defense and the Staff and all those involved in this business. And in this direction we will support these two reports as well as receive the state of the Armed Forces in Croatian, but of course this does not mean that we support the state that we see through this report. So we expect stronger reactions, and we would like all of us to remember when the State budget is adopted which we do, and the Ministry of Defence to prepare what it really wants from the Croatian Army and how much money it needs. And then we'll see in these frames if there's anything we can do. Everything else will be the torture, the harassment, I'd say I won't tell the deception, but we'll always strain in the reports that the army can still perform its basic function. And in practice, we all know that the situation is nowhere near the same as it could be said that the Croatian Army can fulfill its constitutional role, and we know who it is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-14-0.u23017	Thank you very much. There's another 40 seconds, so... I would like to inform you that, on the basis of Article 207, the time has elapsed for a 10-minute hearing, at 12.42 p.m. On behalf of the IDS Club, Mr. Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-14-0.u23018	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Minister, the Honorable Mr. Representatives. There are two reports ahead of us. So, this is the readiness of the defense system and this is about meeting the defense plan. What should be said first is that for the first time there are reports that hide nothing. Something similar should be recognised by MPs so far have not had the opportunity to see, and even we who are more called together by members of the Committee on Internal Policy. What is the situation in the Croatian Army? We can say, I'm not going to say dramatic, but I'm sure it's serious. In the air force, only 30% of the aircraft is correct. Only a third of Croatian Navy ships can leave the port. The tanks are on average 35 years old, supply of ammunition, mines, missiles, other deadly assets at the lower limit of reliability, and warehouses do not meet the required standards in the most part. There's not even a strategic fuel supply, but there's something later on. First of all, we're talking about achieving this defense plan. Why do you want to talk about him first? For the reason that Croatia is not there, regardless of what people would say we are the best when we improvise because nothing can surprise us. There's no doubt about it, and we're unbeatable. But now they're joking aside. True, Croatia is not threatened by any armed threat. Political opportunities are stable in the country, there is no rebellion, so that the document can in some way, I dare say, and wait. If you could wait for him from 91 to today, maybe another year. Anyway, we're entering the NATO Alliance most likely in 2006 and we're going to have to re-establish the defense plans. Of course there's a lot of sarcasm in those words. However, another document for Croatia is extremely important. And this is the one in the case of possible disasters or possible incidents, which is a note of bene and a Croatian international obligation. Now that document isn't a joke, and that should be made clear. It is clear that all defence plans must have their origins in that roof defence plan, but at a time when Croatia really does not threaten any more dangers, Serbia-Montenegro's relations are stable, NATO has definitely withdrawn from Bosnia and Herzegovina. With Slovenia there are those classic, I don't know, incidents, no incidents. With Italy, we have no problem, regardless of what a fine lamentations in Istria and Rijeka, Zadar, Dalmatia, and that should be clearly condemned. But one thing that Finnie said, too. If there was no change in the exceptional agreement, there was no touching in the terms of the fixed assets contracts. The Pacta I'm servanta. The first time anyone from such a place in the Italian government has said that sentence. So, the only problem we're on our own, the problem is that we have economic opportunities related to external debt, unemployment, import-exports, a clearly gross social product and could be, God forbid, major disasters. For example, the Adriatic pollution. It's enough that one ship of oil is experiencing a hararium and Croatia's tourism future has been destroyed. We're in no condition to deal with the blooming of the sea, let's just say one such disaster. We are not able to deal with the drought, let alone with the disaster mentioned, and so I hold that this disaster plan should be put on focus as soon as possible, as soon as possible. I repeat, Croatia will no longer have war. We're all aware of that. Croatia is not Serbia to have a problem with Kosovo, so that it can be called an internal problem. Our uncertainty is today of a different nature. It is the lack of reliable sources of energy, it is the vulnerability of information systems, these are possible ecological disasters, these are production disorders, unstable international flows, loans, terrorism, etc. These are the meanings of the Croatian challenges to which this country must respond. What finally Croatia can, I don't know, do with this rampage of oil prices because of Bush's intervention in Iraq. Nothing or almost nothing. And where we can, say, get gas off the mainland then some of our own won't, but we'll have to agree to it soon, because it'll just make us make sense of things because we won't be able to pay for oil and electricity. What about electricity that Croatia also lacks enough, oil crises and the like? Yesterday, we also discussed the IMF in this House. I said yesterday that as there is no government that would not cooperate with The Hague so there is no government that would not conclude an arrangement in these circumstances with the IMF and at the moment when the future really depends on these pre-accession strategies, fate, I don't know, General Gotovina, loans, repayment of external debt, etc. Croatia imports $14 and a half billion, we export $6 billion. We make $5 billion in tourism, that's the story. Someone says six, but real four. And it should also serve about $6 billion a year in foreign loans. It doesn't matter now who's in charge, the state, the bank or the economy. 20 billion dollars should be provided, and $20 billion is provided by the Croatian National Bank. So, without new loans, without stable security, without a message from the IMF, it's hard for this country to deal with these problems. A few words about the defense system's readiness. I repeat the war is behind us, there is no more war on the ground of the Republic of Croatia, Croatia, as everyone said just before, created an army so it will be easier to reorganise the army but it is clear that every reform costs. Every reform costs more than maintaining the status quo, and even when we get rid of parts of the Ministry of Defence employees, it costs more at this point than let's say their retention. We have to be aware of that, but it's just a job to do. What the Croatian political elite should be of primary interest is to try to agree on some consensus on the European Union, the IMF, The Hague, etc., all of which are some foreign policy issues but which determine the internal and then the opportunities in the armed forces. To be honest with me are far more important topics of life, interest, exports, imports, foreign capital from the issue of the military, however, it is also one key national issue. In front of us is this pre-accession strategy that has been adopted by the European Union without them following, by my court, democratic processes in Croatia or Croatia have been compared with Turkey, but it has already been adopted to balance relations in the Western Balkans, Serbia, Montenegro, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Croatia, etc. Well, no one's gonna tell me that the institutions are democratic in this country. If anyone is at risk, some democratic institution then it may be this Parliament tomorrow if it is left without direct transfer. Whether the ruling parties have an interest in this, perhaps, but the democracies will be affected without it. And what little power without it will this Parliament will lose, what little reputation will lose without it, what little influence without it will lose but where power will move, will go to the government, to Croatian broadcasting large capital clearly to the Ministry and so on. Therefore, in my view, joining the European Union and before that, NATO should also be seen as an escape from the Western Balkans not in a way that we will not co-operate with Bosnia and Herzegovina or Serbia-Montenegro, that we will introduce visas to argue, etc., but when I say that joining NATO is an escape from the Western Balkans I think it is a safe measure to join the European Union tomorrow, it is a key setting and this document. Europe shouldn't be afraid. At last, we cannot survive clearly because we are not Switzerland. One of the key problems of the armed forces is this reconstruction or reduction of military personnel. Yesterday on the Committee on Internal Policy Mr. Jarnjak said that the problem when Croatia is not only materially, technically or not know what I will call it, the staff issue, but that it is a deeply emotional issue. Technically, it can be in one Romania, Bulgaria, it cannot be in Croatia, why. Because that army was created in different credentials. However, it is higher than Croatia's future that must pass but should also recognise that the process is going relatively painlessly in Croatia. Which is what it means when an army is based on these are primarily our budgetary options. Never less singled out for the army than this year in 2004. Why because in these circumstances in a country of burdensome, all possible problems, follow the army in such a way as to require technology or technology or technical means simply not possible. It is necessary to repay the debt to pensioners, restore international obligations, build roads, hospitals, retirement homes and so on. The budget for this year is 4.1 billion kuna, of which the salary goes to Circa 3 billion, a billion and a hundred million goes to for material assets, if we have that in mind, then it is no wonder why the situation in the Navy and aviation is what it is because the Navy spends around 325 million kunas with salaries, aviation 509 million kunas, and then it is clear that technical staff flees into some other spheres or leaves the army. All this says that gentlemen we have huge problems, and our biggest problem is money, everything else goes somehow, severances go. The average severance amounted to 64 thousand kuna, out of the military in 2003 6 thousand 724 employees, this year another 3 thousand 67, without any earthquakes, which will say that the programme is socially human if I may express myself. But the equipment is what it is, the only thing we have these new radar systems for which 94 million kunas were allocated in 99 years, but I mention them primarily in the context of the dispute of the local environment when the setting of the same in Učka is due to the reason I hold that the will of the population should be respected. What we should be proud of are our forces in peace missions. Croatia today has about 70 people, 80 people from Afghanistan, to the Indian-Pakistan border, Haiti, Sierra Leone, etc. On the one hand, Croatia must also be grateful to the United Nations for sending its peacekeeping forces to our territory in the 1990s, in a way that has stopped the war and understandably that today Croatia must make amends to the United Nations. Croatia must clearly not send soldiers to Iraq and should not give it the right to go beyond the Parliament to send Croatian troops outside the border to be the discretionary right of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. As far as civilian military service is concerned, he takes such an extent to think about abolishing the military deadline should be considered in the full professionalisation of the Croatian Army. This fact that we have 5500 officers, 8500 officers, 6500 soldiers, less almost than an officer simply no longer leads anything to professionalize. Of course, this professionalisation costs more than this structure, but Croatia needs to move on to this professionalization and what is important to the properties that the military does not use is not important to whom, local self-government or pension fund. It doesn't matter, they should be put in place by gentlemen to bring some benefits to the wider community. And finally, I want to say that for the first time in our lives, there are two reports that don't really hide anything. After this debate, I am afraid that the armed forces will be left alone again because we are all aware that everything depends on money not on will, there is readiness for sure but there is no news and why, as the people would say, we must cover ourselves with how long it is or how long we are alone. That's why we're going to vote yes and for the fact that we can talk openly about these problems and also because of the fact that it's a defacto report for 2003 means the engagement of the former government. I wish the Minister every success in further work, however, I fear that everything will ultimately depend on the fact that the Republic of Croatia has money, without the money of some spectacular things, we simply cannot afford ourselves or the Armed Forces.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-14-0.u23019	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect quote, you're giving up, all of you? Dear Representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-14-0.u23020	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Cain has made several incorrect allegations. First, it is an incorrect assumption that real estate should be donated to municipalities and cities. In fact, the German Army has also made its reshuffle in a way that either she sold or rented them and still filled the state budget. Next, Mr. Cain's mustache on the concept of an army and a defense system, it's not the same thing. The defence system consists of both the military and the civil defense and forms an economic defense. And precisely because of the acts in the case of terrorism, some other elemental disasters must have strong civilian defenses and there must be all these plans to act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-14-0.u23021	And respected representative Ruža Tomasic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-14-0.u23022	Mr. President, I'm correcting the incorrect allegations when he says there is no need for such an army that there will never be a war in Croatia again. Since Croatia is neither a member of the European Union nor a NATO member, as long as Mr Tomislav Nikolic is in Serbia and another party in strength that claims to be Serbia-Virovica-Karlovac-Karlobac so far will need a strong army in Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-14-0.u23023	SDP club respected representative Zeljka Antunovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-14-0.u23024	Mr. President of the Parliament, Mr. Minister, colleagues and fellow MPs. We are discussing these reports today, and I must admit that I am satisfied with the debate that is being held here, because there has been a lack of what I was personally afraid of, and what is when so far discussed, no matter what form or at what level of the situation and problems in the defence security system and the armed forces, has not been discussed this objectively, this cold head, but has always been unnecessarily politicised and tried to put a finger into someone. And for that reason, here at the beginning, on behalf of the SDP Club, I am particularly pleased with the way the debate is being held here. The first fact that we, in the SDP, particularly want to highlight is one of the few comparative advantages that the defence security system of the Republic of Croatia has, normally in the part relating to the MORH, or the armed forces, are people. Both reports show that humans are one quality and one to rely on. But then that means not that component ignored. They exist in the system, that's our opinion. And what they lack in the system exists wider in the Republic of Croatia. With their engagement and good leadership, using their knowledge and experience, the Republic of Croatia can resolve the largest number of shortcomings and problems presented in the reports in question. The SDPs accept the reports in question and hope that they will be the basis for making more rapid strategic, political decisions, without which there will be no further reform of the armed forces. Nothing in the defense system happened overnight and nothing's going to get rid of it overnight. It is also a fact that we must face all, but also the Croatian public. Security and defence issues are of national interest and therefore the SDP advocates an objective approach, reaching consensus, and a serious political, not a political and sensational approach that we can still recognise today, fortunately not in the Croatian Parliament today, but in society and the environment. The reform processes in the defence security system have been launched in the report several years ago. The reform has been carried out and will be conducted in phases. It's the only possible way. The SDPs would especially like to highlight the part in the report that advocates a systematic and long-term approach, as only in this way will ensure that the conditions of limited resources are achieved with maximum positive shifts. As a result, we warn that time is going on inexorably. What we've missed so far shouldn't be the subject of our discussions, but there should be a place or a fact from which we need to learn something. We need to find the strength to make key documents and decisions. A strategic review of the defence that I have long considered unnecessarily long will create assumptions for the adoption of a long-term plan for the development of the armed forces and we warn and propose that the time to produce these documents must be defined, must be limited, because it will help overcome our weaknesses. It has to be defined and then it has to be respected. This is something where the Parliament should not give restrictions, but we think that within the Government of the Republic of Croatia, deadlines must be set in which the Ministry of Defence and other resolutions, which are mandatory in terms of giving their contribution to the defence security system, must be given deadlines from the Government of the Republic of Croatia and then those deadlines and respect. This could lead us to debate the causes of the existing situation, but this approach would certainly lead us towards non-productive political polemics. And so today I'm going to stay at one general finding, but which is also something from where to continue to develop existing positive shifts. That this is the result of many objective but subjective weaknesses both military and political components. Those who have had the opportunity to be a little deeper in this system will know what we are talking about, and they will know it well and militaryly, but also the political part that directly affects or affects the situation in the system. and we in the SDP are stressing the importance of the facts, which has been discussed today by 2000, which has not even been imagined by the year 2000. We also stress a significant step towards depoliticalising the military component and we advocate further empowerment of these processes. Why am I stressing this? Not very rare signals from the system to suggest that creating and implementing a human policy that is extremely important if we want to solve these problems, have more political weight than professional and experienced criteria. We've kind of gone over this, and I think that in that direction, the system needs to move further on the weaknesses that cause or between which it is in this situation today. We would also like to emphasise another aspect relating to the reform of the armed forces and their long-term development. It is very important not to be emotional and crying right now, but to be fair to the people who are in the system today, and who are definitely paying the greatest tribute and the most expensive price for reforms that must be implemented in the system. You need to be fair, you need to respect the criteria, and at all costs. It is a task that people who today's system leads at many levels not only at the highest level must understand and implement. Then there will be less dissatisfaction, and then in shorter periods we will solve these very serious and difficult problems. Another important fact that today was about what I want to point out on behalf of the SDP is that all of our good wishes and intentions, good plans, good projects, all of them will fall into the water if, at the moment we are in this House, we decide how much of our resources we will not think about in the same way we do today. No one in the armed forces system has ever asked for anything that this country cannot respect but some minimum of 2.2 gross social product that is calculated to ensure that an entire set of tasks standing before the armed forces is something that should no longer be the subject of anyone's debates. We should discuss a slightly larger amount if the overall state of affairs in the country allows but no less than this amount. Unfortunately, today we hear it should be so that we should secure the funds but when we talked about the budget, when we talked about budget rebalancing and probably very quickly when we are going to talk about budgeting for the first six months our determination and priorities will not be exactly in that direction. I will warn that investment in armed forces and the defence-security system is not only important as a national issue. There are also a number of projects within the armed forces that show that budgetary investment in the armed forces system can also have a direct positive impact on the economic development of the Republic of Croatia. Today there is neither time nor opportunity to talk about it, but these are processes that have already begun and I think we need to change our awareness that investment in the defence system is only an investment in defence. It is in defence but also in the overall development of the Republic of Croatia. When it comes to the future of the defence and security system and the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia, I am an optimist and a great optimist, and we in the SDP think that this difficult work must and can be done. Croatia is late in reforming the system, but not because the military is not ready for it, but because there are still clear political decisions and priorities, and not only in such raptures, but also then as I just pointed out when some other key decisions are made, first of all, when we decide how much we will allocate the money for defence and security. Let us thank, on behalf of the SDP today, the minority majority party in this House who, in difficult conditions so far, have contributed not only to the creation of the armed forces, and to the creation of the armed forces but also to this no less demanding business of reforming the armed forces, to all those who participate in this today and to all those in whom we in the SDP have great confidence. It was said here earlier for this speaker that there is a danger that the MORH and the armed forces will be left alone again after this debate. As far as the SDP is concerned, it will not be because we will continue to warn on a daily basis in an objective rational way, in the problems that armed forces have and the importance of resolving these problems in the context of the overall national tasks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-14-0.u23025	Thank you very much. Let us welcome our guests today students and students of Faust Vrančić Engineering School from Zagreb. Defence Minister Berislav Roncevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-14-0.u23026	Mr. President, allow me to refer briefly to some of the allegations that were made here in the debate at the end of the presentation of the club representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-14-0.u23027	Not at the end of clubs because there's another club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-14-0.u23028	Excuse me. Mr. Radoš is an information that is slightly concerned not because the representative may not know the structure of financial operations but as a former minister he would have to know that these billions and 200 million material costs are not what we are particularly interested in and that is the item of equipment, modernisation and maintenance. The material costs include toilet paper, and food, and electricity, and communal compensation and the mass of what burdens. That's an item, it's not a relationship where it compares budgets in total nominal amount and material maintenance and what we want to increase and that's investment in maintenance and modernisation. Several times during the debate, the club representatives stressed the need to pass the Civil Defence Act. In order to inform you of the current and current state, I will tell you that at the end of the year a decision was made to make a study and that it was made in the first half of this year. Professional debates were held on the subject of civil defence in the Republic of Croatia. Participants in the expert debate were representatives of the body of the state authority, the central authorities of the state administration, the regional self-government and other competent institutions and scientific authorities dealing with national security issues. Over 40 participants participated actively at this level. On 23 June, a public debate was held on the subject of civil defence in the Republic of Croatia with 150 participants and a national NATO co-ordinator in order to meet the criteria and standards for the entry of the Republic of Croatia into NATO, the Alliance formed an inter-resorial working group for the area of civil, civil and military crisis planning, civil support for collective defence, participation of civil institutions in international peace operations and other activities abroad and other related areas. What are we trying to say? That there is not a single assumption that sometimes occurs among some parliamentary representatives and that a good deed is circulating through our public that joining NATO is neglecting this civil defense. It is precisely the need for a clear definition of civil defence in order to respond to new challenges, crisis situations and various situations to which it does not correspond to classical military elements. Thus, great progress has been made in this, and this work is being brought to an end. We hope to have the Civil Defence Act in regular procedure soon before this House of Highs. I agree with Mrs. Antunovic that people are the basics. We keep pointing that out. In this year, despite the nominally smaller budget, we have increased the financial item for education and professional training of our officers and officers, and we will continue to work on this programme because people are the key and bearer of all activities, all activities and so on in this defence system. Time goes by, some countries have been strategically reviewing the defences three times. The instructions are to determine but not to define the model until the end because what I point out again, we must set up, afford a defence system that will be able to track the Croatian economy through the budget in the long term. Modernisation and equipment of some country transitions that have passed this same phase from a country which was also an army that was on an individual concept of defence and which entered the collective defence system expect that its process, i.e. the process of transforming and modernising arms and military equipment, will be completed somewhere in 2012 or 2013. And today they celebrated five years of NATO membership. There are therefore no short-term solutions here but there is a need for a unique programming. And that's the Croatian government's that stvila lu's program that got support in this high house. NATO and the European Union as strategic objectives of foreign policy. And everything we do today is in accordance with NATO's ambition. Staff policy, the political criterion of setting people absolutely incorrectly, the level of first co-workers who have the status of state officials is my choice and I do them according to the criteria of personal trust. Where the process of cooperation or lacks a sense of sufficient cooperation or confidence. Normally I'll continue to make human changes. But exclusively according to the criteria of expertise, and the functioning of the system and the assistance to me as minister. The issue of finance has been known and held here, the state budget in 2004 was conceived at this amount due to the government's tendency to be on the basis of the deficit 4.5% compared to the gross social product. And we at the Department of Defense couldn't have expected that necessary reduction wouldn't have caught us. We hope that the economic opportunities of Croatia will allow us to allocate more resources for this defence budget. But we do not want to be singled out, we want to develop as well as the totality of Croatian society.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-14-0.u23029	Thank you very much. I'm setting a break until 3:00. Ladies and gentlemen, let's get back to work. The club of HSLS representatives DC respected representative Frano Piploić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-14-0.u23031	Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Minister. The DC and HSLS Club also said its support for the process of reforming the defence system of the Republic of Croatia. This report that we have here today is also commendable, not because it has the content that is printed in this report, but the way in which the problems we are facing in the Croatian Army reform are courageously, resolutely, without any laxativeity, without any blurring. I'll be back in 1991. Mr. Tarnai and Mr. Ramljak attended a meeting in Djakov. On behalf of the government, a meeting of crisis headquarters was called in the night hours. The topic was also clear about how to stand up to the enemy in the area of Slavonia. On behalf of the Operational Zone Osijek was Mr. Carlo Gorinšek, commander of the Operational Zone. He presented objectively and professionally the problems facing himself in defence, however, he also stressed the strength of the then Yugoslav army, their weapons, and we who were then listening, we were given the impression that Mr. Gorinsek was praising and giving support to that force of the Yugoslav army. In anger that we're so powerless, I actually asked, who are you rooting for? Why did I tell you this? When we see this report brought here in front of parliamentary representatives and the Croatian public, and when we read the texts that were in the papers today, then the man actually asks himself, who he is rooting for here, for whom the reports that today are bombistically given in the newspaper, for whom they cheer, what is meant to say, that is, this report that is in front of us. Of course the answer is next. That only with the truth and proper and quality information can we come to the state that we have set for ourselves through the programme of reform of the Croatian Defence System. As few armies in the world, the Croatian army was at the same time, while it was actually being created, it was going through three processes at the same time. One process was the creation of an army of citizens, of ordinary people, farmers, workers, intellectuals, patriots of Croatia who had neither weapons nor had any logistics. In a way, at that point, with one defence component, we had one social component. In these moments, a large number of companies from the then economy are not working, so one and a part of Croatian soldiers have been recruited on the grounds that people have found a kind of care for their social throughout the Croatian army. It proved very quickly that it was not effective for the defence of the state, so we also had the exit, the extraction of part of the people from the Croatian Army, the return to business, etc. The next process was the process of creating professional soldiers from those who had already been educated, from those who came from the system of the former Yugoslav army, so that the Croatian army was very specific and could not be clearly organised and strengthened on those principles on which the much stronger armies were strengthened. Its first and main goal was to defend the state, to create a state, to defend citizens, to defend property, to oppose a much stronger enemy. Even though it is specific to the Croatian army, which is the same peasant, this same worker, this young man, that intellectual, he came with his rifle, and he meant together and offered with his goodwill and with his will, he offered the first weapon that the Croatian Army had, and I also witnessed that we were thus collecting funds from our citizens and in such a way we bought weapons and clearly that when the army did what it did, it defended Croatia and created Croatia, that it had not had enough resources to buy further weapons and that it clearly was not the goal. At the same time, we had one process, a creation or integration. We are now in the process of disintegration which is facing the integration of the Croatian defence system into the NATO system. Therefore, we support all these processes that will certainly not be easy, but we should not stress some of them and overemphasise the state they are now in the Croatian Army and thus create one panic among citizens, because it is not just technique, technical equipment and technical equipment of the military that makes the foundation of the army. We showed in the Homeland War that above all there was a heart, a Croatian heart, the trust of citizens, a good organization, that it was of crucial influence, and the weapons had only come to a later term. Therefore, here is the Club of DC and HSLS to support this because the Croatian Army is now in the process of reform. As soon as something is in the reform, it does not take the form that is designed, which is targeted, and to that end, I hope, in a complicated way, that all relevant officials in Croatia will agree, that we will come to that goal, and that is the goal of our defence of the Croatian system within NATO. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-14-0.u23032	Thank you very much. Representative Nenad Stazic. He's gone. He's losing his word. Representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-14-0.u23033	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. First of all, I would like to say that I welcome the government and the defence minister's courage to give a realistic assessment of the situation both in terms of the implementation of defence preparations and in terms of the state of play, i.e. the situation ended on 31 December of last year in the framework of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia. In fact, such a truth is needed in order to be able to create a defence system in such a way that it can act, that it can be effective, on the one hand, and on the other hand, and that we have the armed forces according to the Constitution, that these are small but capable armed forces that will be willing to carry out all the tasks that are required of them at some point. So we're satisfied with the fact that the report is realistic, but normally we can't and we're not satisfied with the state of the Armed Forces and we're not satisfied with the state of defence preparations. I think that we should now discuss in this second part how and in what way to start working in a way to adopt a defence plan, to bring in a plan to use the Armed Forces, to bring in a long-term plan for the development of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia and to bring in a plan of action in case of disasters, and normally there is also a need to bring about a risk assessment. I think that the government should have already set up a programme of activities to develop and adopt a defence plan, to develop and adopt a plan to use the Armed Forces, to develop and adopt a disaster plan, and also to prepare already, means to start with the preparation of a long-term development plan for the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia. Only when we have all these documents, and these documents are also essential for the implementation of defence preparations, as well as for the implementation of the reconstruction of the Armed Forces. Because we can't talk about the reconstruction of the Armed Forces. We have to have all these documents. This whole thing that's been done so far has been a clean cut. It wasn't the reconstruction of the Armed Forces. It was a clear reduction of the Armed Forces. Because if you're going to do a reshuffle of the Armed Forces, then you have to have all these documents exactly, and that's how you plan to get into one such action. We need to know exactly what our military-terroral division will be, we need to know exactly what our total size of the Armed Forces will be. We have to have an act pyramid, we have to have an act structure. We don't have it until today. It's very simple. If, clearly, if we have a smaller army, it means we have to have better weapons. It's a thing since there's an army in the world, it's a very simple thing. So, but to do that, we're going at this point we're only going to cut down on the number of members of the Armed Forces, and we haven't done anything in the sense that we've brought in a long-term development plan of the Armed Forces. If we had seen it, put it in function, do we see if we, what we want to have in that part? Because we need to be aware, we are not going to solve the issue of our defense or the question, first of all, of action in cases of major natural disasters or other disasters unless we have organized a defence system. Don't let God happen to us any, say, elemental disaster of larger proportions, we know ourselves that we can't act. Why can't we act? We do not have a plan for the preparedness of the Republic of Croatia, not the Armed Forces, because this plan is being developed in 3 degrees, so the plan is not only, it is not intended for the case of war and the direct threat of independence and unity but it solves the conduct of the competent state authorities, all meanings of defence factors in the given situation. The situation in our stock is like this, the government itself said when it took over the mandate that there was no state of supply. Let's just think about the situation if we had a defense plan and everything else we'd have reserves. So oil and oil derivatives in 90 days. And what reservations we saw two years ago when the former government brought in that these reserves had to increase by 30 days. But look, we had oil reserves and oil derivatives back in '91 at that level. In 91, we also had that part of getting everyone out of the occupied areas, all the strategic stuff, so, like grain and all the other silos and everything that had to be done in order to be organized and to act. That's why at this point we expect the government to, which should be one of the conclusions of this, today's debate. That the Government must prepare activities quickly and set deadlines and carriers in order to bring in all these most important documents in order to establish a defence system and implement defence preparations both from the point of view of defence in the event of direct threat to independence and unity and for all cases of action when the defence system is engaged. So, whether it was in the case of elemental accidents, it was in the case of others. We also need to be aware that we will not solve our defence issue in a way that we say that we are entering the NATO alliance. We won't solve it, we know it ourselves, and it's good, and I welcome what part of the minister, which the government has said is that there are risks of joining NATO. There are risks because normally, NATO is not interested in the Croatian Army as a whole. NATO will primarily be interested in the Croatian Army's pedestrian troops and these are the specialized forms where they will look for us where we are already taking part. And normally, they will require that we make additional efforts in this work, related to equipment, training and everything else and to the system of connections, but which means, in this section, for the Land Army. NATO will not be interested in our Navy, NATO will not or will not be interested in the military air force that needs the state again. But, on the other hand, by joining NATO, we are automatically increasing our own risks of terrorist and other activities because there is a very different situation where our troops are going to be part of the NATO alliance somewhere, but outside of the Security Council missions, means the United Nations. Because in this way, we will only contribute to the situation that we will be exposed to various other forms of subversive action, terroristism and everything else that it carries. You know it yourself, and it's obvious that NATO is not the answer. NATO has no answer for terrorism. There's no answer for terrorism. And that's why I'm surprised by all the statements and the president of the state and before, so we're a member of the Anti-Terrorist Coalition. What kind of a member and what anti-terrorism coalitions we are when we don't have an orderly defence system in the state that can respond to all these and terrorist acts and other situations that we can come into, if we don't have a ready defence system and if we don't know who and what and what way they're going to react at some point. And therefore, the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security should, in full terms, be the same link between the Croatian Parliament and the Government. To follow and take whatever is realized in that field. And I also can't say again that you need to do one specific thing. Someone must be responsible for this situation, for this state of defence of the Republic of Croatia, in which the Croatian Army is now in condition. The most responsible in all of this must be the president of the state. The president of the state is the most responsible, he is the High Commander of the Armed Forces. We know for ourselves what he said about the Armed Forces, that it was made up, that this was made, that it was done. In fact, nothing has been done, and the answer is also borne by the former government. We've obviously forgotten because we're headed for that part, that we don't need the Armed Forces anymore, and that's proof of how and how this one period with the Armed Forces was concerned. The case of 12 generals who were evicted, who knew how to do their job, and there were many such situations, and then the public showed how some kind of reshuffle was done. No reshuffle has been made and there will be no reconstruction until these system documents are brought in. So long-term development plan of the Armed Forces, disaster plan, assessment, state defence plan and the use plan of the Armed Forces. Only then can you follow and do what the minister says today. Therefore, we expect the government to take haste steps, that, if the minister can tell us today, in what time will all these crucial documents be passed in order for the radio to be reassessed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-14-0.u23034	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative Branimir Pasecky.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-14-0.u23035	I cannot accept it at all, and it is not true that Croatia has no defence against terrorism at this time. Then it's a disaster, so let's get out of here, what are we doing here? I think Croatia also has the strength within the framework of internal affairs and the Ministry of Defence to oppose. We may not have the strength to carry out some kind of counter-attack, aggression, participation in dealing with terrorism outside the country, but I cannot accept such a definitive attitude that we cannot resist terrorism that could appear in Croatia at some point.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-14-0.u23036	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-14-0.u23037	Mr. President, Mr. Pasecky has injured Article 209 of our Rules of Procedure. I didn't even say what he was saying in that sense. I said we don't have a defense plan, we don't have a preparedness plan, we don't have any crucial documents that answer all of this. We don't have that. I wish we did. I'm giving my opinion. He didn't make me any better.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-14-0.u23038	It's no correction of the Rules of Procedure. I've told you a hundred times already, Article 209 doesn't apply because it's not a breach of Rules of Procedure, Article 209. That, please MPs, remember once and for all. This is an article that tells us that there is an institute to correct an incorrect quote and under which conditions can be used.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-14-0.u23039	That's why it's a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-14-0.u23040	Injury of the Rules of Procedure. Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the respected representative Krešimir Ćosic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-14-0.u23041	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Kovacevic has presented a whole series of incorrect allegations. For a short period of time, I'll just quote some of them. Here I quote, Mr Kovacevic said that NATO is not interested either in the Croatian Navy or Croatian Air Force, it is simply not exactly a whole series of international agreements within NATO, such as the open sky and joint joint exercises at sea within the Partnership for Peace, and Mr Kovacevic's claims, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-14-0.u23042	Replica, the esteemed representative of Lucin, please be my guest.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-14-0.u23043	Thank you very much. I would join those who spoke on behalf of the clubs today, and it seems that the minister is actually on one dimension, and that is the problem of money and the means needed by the military to function and work as we would all like. In fact, I want to say this, we can have excellent plans, excellent programs, but if we don't have the money for training, or for equipment, that paper, that plan, that assessment isn't worth anything. And so it would be responsible for us...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-14-0.u23044	Comrade Lucin, the replica is the answer to the quote of the representative. The representative Kovačević spoke before you, and you responded to the line and to which you said.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-14-0.u23045	Let me finish and you'll hear, my time is not yet up. So, I'm not correcting an incorrect quote, but I'm replicating sentences that for this situation in the armed forces, the former government, the current government and the commander-in-chief are not guilty. We must be responsible and say that the situation in the Armed Forces is primarily blamed by the Croatian Parliament, because the Croatian Parliament determines the amount of money to be given to the Croatian Army.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-14-0.u23046	The reply to the replica, the respected representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-14-0.u23047	Mr. Lucin is saying something that isn't true at all. First of all, it is true for this situation at this time in the defence system of the state and the armed forces responsible for both the president of the state and the former government, the Croatian Parliament is not because today the Croatian Parliament was first received publicly, which is the first time in history that it has been told realistically what the situation in the defence system is and what it is necessary to do. And you can't do Mr. Lucin's reshuffle of the armed forces without what all the armies in the world have to do. Therefore, normally the funds are important but it is impossible to do so if you do not know what will be done and how will be done, whether we will go until 2015, 2013, 14. to get what we need to gain. That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-14-0.u23048	And another replica of the esteemed representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-14-0.u23049	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Kovacevic literally said that the president of the state was responsible for the situation in the Armed Forces. I will once again say what I was talking about in front of the club, the money determines first and foremost the Government confirms the parliament majority in this house. Finally, the HSP also voted for the 2004 budget. Without money, we gentlemen simply can't do anything, the budget for this year is 4.1 billion kuna, of which more than 70% is spent on wages alone, only one billion kuna for material expenses. So we can cover ourselves not as long as we're long but simply as we have a blanket, that's what the people would say. It is not because there is no desire not to help someone, not to influence something, but simply to have no money. And since there is no money then it is clear that the situation in the armed forces is also serious then we have a situation that only 30% of the aircraft is right in the aviation sector, that only a third of the Croatian Navy ships can leave the port, that there is no fuel reserve, that there are no protective masks, that our tanks are 35 years old and so on. However, responsibility is, in this particular case, related to material resources, if there is no money, no more can be achieved than we have at this point.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-14-0.u23050	The reply to the replica, the respected representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-14-0.u23051	Mr Cain, according to Article 99. The President of the Republic is commander-in-chief of the Armed Forces. Therefore, the very fact that he is the Supreme Commander of the Armed Forces, that no plan for the use of the armed forces has been adopted, that there is no long-term plan for the development of the armed forces is already a sufficient fact for his responsibility, and the truth is that more money has to be needed but neither the former government nor the current government should be allowed to have these documents to implement the reconstruction and help the defence minister not to be a minister without portfolio one day but to be a defence minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-14-0.u23052	Honourable representative Zvonimir Puljic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-14-0.u23053	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. According to the law on defence, the government submits an annual report to the Croatian Parliament on the readiness of the defence system, the implementation of human resources policy and the overall state of the armed forces. For the first time this report is in this House, although the Defence Act has entered into force 29. 3. 2002. Respecting the conclusion of this 5th April House, we have also had a document entitled Report on the implementation of the defence plan of the Republic of Croatia and the implementation of the defence preparations at the request of the HSP, at one of the previous sessions. Both documents together form a whole and best to discuss at the same time because the military and civilian components in the functional community represent the defence system as part of the national security system of the Republic of Croatia. A security assessment presented in these documents shows strong military forces, latent instability and the presence of international forces in support of political solutions in Bosnia and Herzegovina, Serbia-Montenegro. By nature, the defence system of the Republic of Croatia must count on scenarios of possible escalation of conflict and spillage in one of the forms on Croatian territory and be prepared in such a case for an appropriate defence reaction that would effectively combat or reduce adverse consequences. The likelihood of open aggression during this period is estimated to be very low but therefore counts on non-traditional and non-war forms of threat such as terrorism, organised crime and similar character which is clearly global and is almost utopian as well. All this points to co-operation and joint action in creating peace and political stability. In line with the planned NATO membership as one of the strategic goals of the Republic of Croatia, the reconstruction of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia is carried out both in personal dimensioning and in technical equipment, making sure that this means the complementarity of national military resources with those functions that I am convinced of in the near future is taken over by NATO. What makes this Report special and requires it to be pointed out in particular is the degree of openness with which, without mitigation, it speaks of deficiencies in the defence system, both in normative, technical and personal areas. This openness demonstrates the determination to remove the deficiencies or at least rapidly reduce them during the upcoming period. Since the country's main direction of developing the armed forces and defence capabilities as a whole is in line with the defence strategy of the Republic of Croatia, this report should support as well as efforts to make the next 2004 report more positive for less reasons for critical notes, i.e. self-critics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-14-0.u23054	Thank you. Honorable representative Željko Krapljan.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-14-0.u23055	Honored Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honored Ministers, State Secretary, colleagues and fellow MPs. Today we have a report on the implementation of the defence plan of the Republic of Croatia and the implementation of defence issues. Under point 2 of this report, the current activity on defence preparations, and we see how priority work is imposed on the making of new sublegislative regulations that will regulate the area of defence preparations to simplify the methods of defence planning, i.e. rationalise the procedures in its application or its application. In order to apply all of this, sublegal regulations governing defence preparation issues should be adopted. Access the development of a plan of defence of the Republic of Croatia with the fastest possible deadline of completion, and must be consistent with all levels. Which means from the president of the state, the government, the secretary of defense and his associates, the Chief Staff, the Corps, not to mention the last soldier in the unit, but not only the last soldier in the unit, but the soldier who is tomorrow and who is in the reserve that can be on us in some way activated. We are all obliged to implement and take all necessary activities and measures to achieve the functions of defence preparations. If this is not done in the event of a crisis, we will need self-organization. What are the characteristics of the philosophy, which in any case reduces the effectiveness of behavior and action, and affects the severity of the possible consequences. Why do I mention self-organizing? At the end of the 90s and 91s, when the Croatian people were in the hardest position in our last 50 years managed to self-organize, they managed to form a defence without mentioning 95 when they managed to prove not only to defend themselves but also to free themselves. Today, in 2004, these things should not be necessary and self-organising should not occur, all of them must be dealt with by law and sublaw. The Republic of Croatia, as a candidate for NATO and the European Union, clearly demonstrates its intention to turn it around in the area of defence, and conducts modern refoming procedures in the strategic, normative, organisational and operational planning area. This will thus create conditions for better implementation of defence preparations. The Republic of Croatia as a whole must strengthen its possible prevention of management at possible times of crisis. And that's meant to be a state of war, so not to say the situation in peace, so that part of the prevention can't be questioned in any case. We also have before us a proposal for an annual report on the preparedness of the human rights defence system in the overall state in the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia. From this report, I'm going to isolate the staff-separation process. The process of working on a new structure began on 30 December 2002, with the separation of generals and high-ranking officers who met the legal requirements for retirement. By March 15, 2004, a total of 8 thousand 251 people were singled out, including 19 generals and admirals. 374 senior officers, 1818 lower officers, 2677 officers and 3644 soldiers. In doing so, 6 thousand and 10 persons were granted on a personal request for severance. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The law on pension insurance rights of military personnel, police officers and authorised officials. The largest exit from the Croatian Armed Forces system was from 36 to 50 years old. The weight of the tasks of the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia in the reconstruction was training and training of troops to carry out combat and peace operations. Since the peacetime tasks, the focus has been on training the task force, supporting the civilian population in extinguishing major fires, and humanitarian aid in other forms of disaster, as well as protection and rescue. We have witnessed this year as well as all past, participation and tasks of the Croatian Army in fires especially in the region of Dalmatia the same if we are familiar with the contribution of the Croatian army in the flood, where it is extremely good and more than satisfied with the response of people when they saw that the Croatian army is here with them specifically in the Sisak area, when the floods and the elementary disasters were, it means it is very good that the Croatian army together with the people prevents and solves all problems. Now accepted through partnership goals as part of the NATO membership approach will be implemented planfully with certain difficulties in equipping units with appropriate material technical means. More than I'm pleased with what's in the report finally gained courage and proved to be a detailed and described state of combat technique. I will briefly mention the situation in the Croatian Land Army, the command and troops of the Croatian Kova, are faced with problems of obsolescence, inequality, and with a message of... existing combat techniques. Today, there was the mention of both the age of tanks, the dawn of years, and the state of the anti-aircraft defense and all that. But we're all witnesses, we all know why and why and how we came to it, where that technique is, how old it was when it was taken over in 91 years, so, but what's most important is what we say, the correctness of combat techniques and other techniques is more than excellent, means 90%. We have an example of a percentage problem with engineering, where 50% is, but we are aware of what the role and tasks of the engineering units are, that these are machines that work normally, where the market is broken and the failures occur. and to conclude, despite numerous difficulties in materially financial and personnel constraints, but with increased efforts by members of the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia, the existing state of combat preparedness of the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia ensures the fulfilled roles and tasks and strategic documents in the area of defence and national security of the Republic of Croatia. All significant tasks with professional relationship of members of the armed forces are realised according to the adopted standard operational procedure and normal. Implementation of the reconstructions of past plans and organised and with them created conditions for further reforms of the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia in order to speed up the convergence of full NATO membership. Finally, the overall readiness of the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia is primarily based on its members who invest and will continue to make maximum efforts to maintain at the appropriate level. Here, Mr. Minister, I'll vote for those reports. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-14-0.u23056	Thank you. Mr. Representative Slaven Letica.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-14-0.u23057	Dear President Shakespeare, Mr. Secretary. You will understand that for me as one of the presidential candidates this report has special weight. And after a man reads it, he's practically thinking about whether to run or not. Because if the state of Croatian defence is such, the only hope is that in the period from 2005 to 2010, it would certainly not be so. So I'm going to say something about the good news pages and about the bad news, or some of the pages of the missing reports in this report, and I would suggest to you, in future reports, that you include these elements using modern research methods that are not expensive and that will certainly give a better insight into the state of security and defence problems of the Republic of Croatia. First of all, I would like to express my regret here on behalf of my colleague, Dr. Tonci Tadic, and my personal name, because before this report we had the intention to visit and visit the Croatian Navy in the Military "St. Nikola" in Split. That's why I got Mr. Secretary's phone approval. After that, Admiral Commander Zdravko Kardum was also given written approval. The usual practice is that serious presidential candidates have the right to access privileged information in view of and that is why this report is good because this legal gap in the Croatian legal system is thus removed. However, all will be able to come to this information openly based on the announcement of this session. We happily held most of the talks in the Croatian Navy, we were wonderfully received by the highest officers of the Croatian Navy, people of knowledge, enthusiasm and fantastic leadership and officers' abilities. For reasons unknown to us, we talked about it a little bit with coffee, there was an interruption of that meeting, and it would end that little episode by expressing another regret. What's missing from this report? First of all, he misses the verdict and that geostrategic judgment of experts within the ministry on neural points that are obvious even to laymen when it comes to border problems. For example, there is no word about the presence of an occupation Slovenian army in St. Gera 15 years after the formation of an independent Croatian state. There are no words about other border problems, threats or silent consent to these threats. There's a lot of information about depravity, obsolescence and the sad state of military technology. As far as I understand purely statisticalally speaking, it is such that the mainland army is in the best formal position because 80% of the equipment, meaning from engineering equipment to anti-aircraft defenses, artillery, whatever, tanks are still in such a positive condition. When it comes to aviation, the procedure is only 30% and the Navy is 30 percent. I'm not concerned about it personally because everyone here who's present and you, Mr. Minister, know that in the 1990s, we didn't have anything. When we visited the weapons of the MUP at that time, for example, on the Trešnjevci, we found the kuburs, the hunting rifles, a couple of carabins and some snipers. Sadness and trouble, we were disarmed. Therefore, what is missing from this report is a much more important element and this is based on positive scientific studies of monitoring, systematic monitoring of feelings of patriotic pride and the willingness of the general population to defend the country. Such research is done by neighbouring countries. I will use this methodology myself, several years ago, for the Globus weekly, I conducted comparative research on the skills of Croats and Croats and other Croatian citizens on the defense of the homeland, and I was surprised at that time, this was the last survey conducted three years ago, that over 70% of the people were still willing to die for their country. When it comes to active reserve officers, dignitaries and manuals, research should also appear to be because I think that military factor is a motivation that sometimes seems to be the most difficult element in the moods of these people. I'm going back down to Split now. So, Mr. Minister, in our phone conversation, you've drawn my attention that there are differences in concepts about the role of the MORH, or the Croatian Navy and other armed and civilian systems in the double business. The first is the defence of the Croatian sea and the second is the implementation and protection of the ecological and fishing zone. Our conversations show that the thesis that concentrates on the ministry's sympathies to have three systems armed at sea and that there is an arming of port captains and port captains is something that would be the world's unique because I know the American system Coast... A guard that wouldn't be close to the idea of arming port captains. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, the idea is to create a system of protection of the sea and ecological and fishing zones with three flamers in the outer edge area to be the Croatian Navy which certainly, and here I refer to the appeal and colleagues of the Parliament and you, Mr. Minister, from the talks it is obvious that Croatia has a highly qualified, highly motivated submarine staff. It would be a shame if for the first time in a hundred years, the Croatian Navy had lost its submarine. The modern German submarine between 420 and 450 tonnes costs about 50 million dollars with its modernization and successful merger of its civilian and defence intentions can also be the pride of Croatian submariners and the pride of the Croatian state but also a very successful instrument in protecting the Croatian Adriatic in the broadest sense of the word. Finally, a gentleman in that interspace would act as a sea police and the port captain would defend the internal territorial sea to the island. There's one more thing about which this high house needs and has the right to know something is the enormous property of the Moreh. We were in Sibenik on the peripheries, in elite locations, in various parts of the MORH must in no way be left without the absolute control of this High House huge potential created in locations, in premises and facilities. There is one general tendency to trade with the local self-government to transfer property to the right to manage local authorities which is a fantastic idea, especially people who are not well acquainted and who still have a complex to science and university which for me thank God is not the case. If someone's looking for a military facility to deal with some genius research that no one in the world is dealing with, then the MORH will say it would be a shame not to give. In any case, we need to see what this is about, a serious value analysis should be made because part of the modernisation of the Croatian Armed Forces can be done by selling that property. I assure you that the property today is worth more than five, six billion euros, and in an unreasonable or undeveloped strategy of use and property, there may be trouble for it to be left to the local authorities, then, in the first round, let it be managed and this one sells and eventually becomes the property of a HIPO bank or whatever they have already done. So, speaking of compliments to this great effort, I hope that we will successfully cooperate that such misunderstandings will never happen again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-14-0.u23058	Dear Representative Vlado Jukic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-14-0.u23059	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. As most of the colleagues who discussed today, I must admit that I am surprised by the content of the report that we have come up with from our government and the Ministry of Defense. Not so many details of the content itself as one general negative picture of the situation in the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia. Only the report fully proves that we, and I was also one of the applicants, were right when we requested the start of this government's mandate, that this kind of report was submitted. What is interesting is that in this House, the competent authority and in the past term discussed this issue on the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security, which I was a member of. And there was a long debate on the Committee in the previous term, over the formulation of the state of the armed forces assessment, which will be presented to both the Parliament and the Croatian public. And then there was a compromise formulation which, from the occasion of the report, meets the current needs. It was an assessment of the situation several years ago, a situation in the armed forces of the relevant parliamentary committee, which was presented to the Croatian public. Since then, here are a few years and we have a report showing that in all elements the situation in the armed forces is much worse than it was a few years ago. Which is why it's hard to say, those who say it's just money, I don't think they're right. Because many of the problems stemming from this report do not need money. No one can convince me to charge money to bring a defense plan or plan to the use of the armed forces in this country. That's why they don't need the money. That's all those on duty need. And they have an obligation to book and constitutionally bring those documents, to fulfill their duty and earn their wages, and to simply bring those documents in. I'm not talking about subjugation acts that haven't been passed in years. It doesn't take any big budget money but just political will. And that's the problem with that, and I see the biggest problem because of the situation in the armed forces, obviously there is no political will, or there are some particular reasons why we don't know which twos are to the fact that these necessary documents have not been brought up to this day. And this is not the first time we have done it, but even a few years ago we mentioned it in numerous discussions and colleagues, Kovacevic, however, obviously we are talking to the deaf. It is not easy, it is clear that it is an unacceptable situation at such a high level that the necessary documents needed for the functioning of a large system such as the defence system in Croatia have simply not been brought to this day without reason. But he didn't need the money for that. All he needed was political will. It is my biggest regret, and I believe that this debate in the House, if anything can contribute to improving the situation, is that it makes the final adoption of these most important documents, of which it should begin at all. Because how is it even possible to talk about some improvement and the state of defense if we don't have the personal documents that we'd generally make plans on all the way down to calculated. Because of course this year's budget is the key moment when it will be possible at least to fix this second part that does not apply to the adoption of documents. What is interesting in the report and I join colleagues who have praised the great courage of both the government and the personal defence minister like this, to present this image to the Croatian public but obviously the situation is such that there is nothing to wait for anymore. It was necessary to present to the Croatian public what is not good for the reputation of the Republic of Croatia, and they certainly will not accept Croatian citizens. Because simply so far, in Croatian media, either this topic has been marginalized or covered up in various ways, under some kind of cover-up military secret and everything that is somewhat needed in part. But it should not, in my opinion, be in such a way that Croatian citizens and that they pay big funds and want to live and in the belief that the defence of the Republic of Croatia and the defence system function as it must according to the Constitution and the laws. What I noticed and what I would like to comment on is a matter of personal readiness. It says here that 85% of the reconstruction is complete. And that means that people are deployed in armed forces to the right places 85%. It's just that the structure of those who have been reconstructed can't at least I haven't been able to read the report, look at it all the way. Is it in these 85%, for example. are also people who have been distributed to the workplaces of specialist jobs in the armed forces, without having adequate expertise or experience related to this new place, based on reconstruction. Because as we say, there's a lot of information that says that a large number of members of the armed forces have been deployed in a reshuffle to places where neither the minimal experience nor often the necessary technical equipment is intended. And that a large number of people in particular, members of the Special know-how Armed Forces, went off as unspective in retirement. And if they weren't replaced by people, they needed the ability to do such specific jobs. Such as the jobs of members of the armed forces. So I'm curious whether it's in that 85% that it's statistical data, or whether it's a satisfactory structure in that system that was in the reconstruction. And that means that these men who are assigned have all the necessary expertise and qualifications to carry out their duties in the armed forces. Through the sector or part of the report on training and training, you can see what happened in the armed forces and can be justified by lack of money. Because as we can see in the professional composition, he didn't have the training necessary for the purpose of his assignments. It is said, however, that at a reduced level we can practically accept that it is below the minimum. As far as the reserve composition is concerned, it is openly acknowledged that there has been no training and there has been no consideration of the reserve composition practically it exists only on paper. And what is certainly to praise the manual composition as much as it works, which means that he was training and apparently the Croatian military is in the absence of money what she had spent and spent on the manual composition, which I believe is positive. What is interesting and what in fact shows a real situation in the armed forces other than the human afactor that is certainly most important is the correctness of combat and other techniques. When it comes to the Land Army, that 85% figure seems a little overly optimistic to me. Given the fact that we captured part of the war technique, we bought some in various ways during the Homeland War. And most or almost all of the war techniques used intensively in the Homeland War and it's hard to assume that its correctness factor is 85%. I think it's too optimistic, and I don't want to say that number a little too high. As far as Croatian Early Air Force is concerned when you say 30% it's a really small number. But let's remember the affair we had after the leak so-called. leaks of information on the Committee on Internal Policy in the previous term, when the Croatian public found out that there was only one in the Croatian Air Force at that time a fighter plane was ready to operate. Let's remember that at that point, that percentage was much smaller. Of course, it is difficult to expect in such a public debate to get precise and concrete figures, but I, who live in Osijek and Slavonac, am also a participant of the Homeland War, who knows for many years, would also like to ask this minister of defense whether we will ever welcome in Slavonia and Osijek as citizens of the Republic of Croatia who have passed the Homeland War and see a combat plane of the Croatian Air Force or at least a combat helicopter with Croatian marks to see in the airspace of Slavonia, in order to know that our Croatian state has the means to defend its sky. I believe that the Slavons did not have the opportunity to see it, and as things stand, we will find it difficult to experience it, given the various predictions that speak of leaving someone else to protect their engagement space and apparently someone thinks it is a solution to the defence system of the Republic of Croatia, which I do not agree with in any way. We know that we have combat helicopters, for years no one has seen them fly or practice and the question is whether it will be trained at all, and we know, the military profession says, that they are absolutely necessary, especially for us, in Slavonia in the event of any kind of threat. As far as the Croatian Navy is concerned, it is obviously of these three segments of the Croatian Armed Forces in the most difficult position. It's true, I even hold that this sentence should not have been written in the report, it really shouldn't have written other tasks such as carrying out a missile strike, carrying out anti-submarine and mine fighting, it can't be done. If it is true, the tragic truth, this sentence, did not need to be written by Mr. Minister, because that means we do not have a Croatian Navy. This, as it writes, means that the Croatian Navy is unable to perform any combat task at this time and that is, it is truly tragic. And it is obvious that the Croatian Navy will have to be the first to try, and I hope that it will be when this budget comes to the next state budget, which will need to help to at least make the minimum of its military tasks possible. And the question of responsibility in the end. We can't run away from responsibility.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-14-0.u23060	Thank you very much, thank you, dear colleague Yukic. Comrade Yukic, you've run out of numbers. Excuse me, you will have an objection to the replica of Radosa's representative to look back.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-14-0.u23061	Great. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-14-0.u23062	Dear Representative Jozo Radosh. Replica, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-14-0.u23063	So, counterpart Jukic says spending small funds on military financing for the arm's lengthy army is a positive thing anyway. So, anyway, we have a little bit of maintenance money, for training the professional army, and then it's good to spend money on the manual army. The Manual Army is absolutely in no important vital function at this time in Croatian defence, nor in Croatian activities towards NATO, international peace missions, etc. does not participate or appear to be participating in anything in the next 10 years, because the reserves that the manual army could possibly make are also very inactive and will probably not be active over the long term. So I am the opposite attitude than my colleague Jukic. I believe spending money for the handicraft is in the conditions when it comes to the quality of the professional army absolutely harmful and negative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-14-0.u23064	Replication response. Dear Representative Vlado Jukic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-14-0.u23065	I am not surprised that my colleague Rados has the opposite views of my personal and Club of the Croatian Party of Rights, because my colleague Rados acted, although for a short time, as defence minister and certainly that this report has a strong contribution, and I think this report with its contents is a visual picture of his colleague Radoš and his mandate as Minister of Defence of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-14-0.u23066	Honorable representativeplatimir Mršić. Comrade Radoš, you have first raised a correction, a tile with a correction of an incorrect quote, and you know very well that there is no correction of the incorrect quote in the replica and reply to the replica, and now you expose yourself to the execution by raising a plate with a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-14-0.u23067	A colleague, Jukic, injured the Rules of Procedure because he insulted the representative, me. First of all, I haven't been Minister of Defense in a short time, and this report can't possibly be a picture and opportunity of my work. Therefore, he insulted the MP and was to receive a warning.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-14-0.u23068	I don't accept it as a violation of the Rules of Procedure. It's a value assessment, not an insult. Insulting nature. Telling someone that he was far-sighted or short-sighted about some political moves is not an insult, but a political qualification when it comes to politics and don't go to that death that's now come to pass. I, by reading the Rules of Procedure, need to give you a reminder of what I do with great dissatisfaction and dissatisfaction. Honorable representativeplatimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-14-0.u23069	President, ministers, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. We are talking today about two documents submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the documents relating to the period last year. Today we are talking about two documents sent by the Government to the Croatian Parliament, the highest representative body of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, and yesterday all afternoon or all evening, we discussed a document signed by the Government with the International Monetary Fund until this morning. And now, I was deeply hoping that, therefore, the documents that the government will forward to the Parliament in the future for debate would be at least similar to those of content and obligations like that document signed by the government with the International Monetary Fund. Today, however, we are getting a document on national security, on territorial integrity, on the sovereignty of the state, which, for example, this first document that speaks of the report on the implementation of the defence plan has 7 lists, of which 4 are covers, and 3 are the contents to which these covers apply. Then I asked myself another question, would it be possible for these documents to be as binding as the Government and in the report some international institutions on certain matters in the Republic of Croatia, such as the monetary sovereignty that we discussed yesterday, where the very precise government reported to the International Monetary Fund what is the situation and made a very precise commitment to what it will do in the coming period including when it will buy software, including when this software will be implemented in information, in hardware at the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Finance. By contrast, we have received two articles from the Ministry of Defence that should talk about the state of defence preparations and the state of the defence system. What I asked myself after I read the report on the implementation of the defence plans and the preparation of defence preparations is whether this Croatian Parliament has a defence plan, whether we as MPs, whether we as MPs have a military schedule. What would happen if a state of emergency occurred today in the Republic of Croatia? Where would we, as Parliamentarians, report to? Would you report to where we're being told, our military bonds in military books, or is there some other war order? What would this Parliament do and where would it do and work at times of extraordinary opportunity and direct war dangers? That's the question that came to me. The fact that in 2003 there were no defence plans, that absolutely doesn't satisfy me. This is one of the readings that we take into account, but the purpose of the report is that they are the basis of the action plan, whether it's short-term, annual, or it's long-term, therefore, that it applies to many years. And we now find that in 2003 our Armed Forces were like this or like that. I don't care what the Armed Forces could have done in 2003 but I'm interested in what I can do today and what I can do tomorrow, and we don't have any of these two documents. So this is a nice ingredient, or 2 beautiful ingredients that we've got. Secondly, we received a report on the preparedness of the defence system for the implementation of the Staff, etc., where the introduction says that the report is a short-term document of operational planning, which, along with other documents, provides frameworks for the development of annual priorities and annual guidelines of the defence system in the Republic of Croatia. I would have been much more pleased if I had received these two documents along with this, if I knew what the annual priorities and the annual guidelines of defence planning in the Republic of Croatia were. Even if we didn't get as precise as the government wrote to the IMF. Maybe if we got a little bit more inaccurate in a bit of a stretching category, not exactly the date the IMF government is negotiating with, with the International Monetary Fund. IMF. ... That's right. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Well, no, I've only got 10 minutes. What worries about this document except that the report on past time is, I fear, that those who wrote this report do not perceive what the defence system really is. Because apart from what they're saying, it describes what factors might threaten, right now who's talking about what? All about the Armed Forces. However, the Armed Forces are only one of the components of the defence system in the Republic of Croatia and in all countries, modern countries in the world. In each country, there is a defence system consisting of at least two components. One component is Armed Forces and the other is Civil Defense. Some other countries that are members of NATO, where we want to, which we want to become, you have three components. For example, France and England, or Great Britain, have military defenses, therefore, not armed forces but have military defenses, have civil defenses and have economic defenses. And Britain and France. And we're in the defense system preparedness report, hop, describing how many planes and helicopters can fly or can't fly last year. We're describing how many generals and other officers and officers we have. Not a word about the civil sector's readiness to use the threat. And the threat isn't just a direct war threat. There are also major disasters. The threat is everything that's done here, that's listed here under security risks. And there's a lot of work here, a lot of work. The function of the defense system isn't just to stand up to the war. The function of the defense system is, above all, a deterrent from a possible attack. Defence of their territory, protection of the population and material goods, unarmed resistance to aggression, the action of political and other social subsystems in war, direct war dangers and major disasters. It's a defense system. As representatives of Croatian citizens, we are not just interested in a description of the situation in the Armed Forces in the previous year. And this really needs to be served as it says in the introduction, to make annual priorities and annual guidelines, but not just annual priorities and annual guidelines, but in long-term plans. A meeting was reportedly held in the 3rd month with the Prime Minister of the Government and Ministers and the Chief Staff, where a different form of the Croatian Army was agreed. To give up the territorial structure, he's moving on to operational units. Why didn't this House discuss this to this day? Why has the Croatian Parliament not discussed any defence documents since 2002 after the adoption of the strategy? This Croatian Parliament has its responsibility for the readiness of the defence system, but the willingness to use the system has a minister, government and president. But we need to discuss it, we need to give guidance and we need to control how our guidelines are implemented. Not half a day to discuss what it was like, what it looked like, and how it was painted helicopters in 2003. It's only when the government treats this House half as far as the IMF is concerned. So, when the report comes and the Action Plan will come to the report at least during the term of office, then we will be able to discuss it in concrete terms and we will be able to clearly stand before the citizens and say, yes, these defence forces are ready to do so for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-14-0.u23070	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect quote, Mr. Josip Djakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-14-0.u23071	Mr. Vice President, I will correct the incorrect quote of my colleague Mršić, who claimed that there is no mention of the issue of civil defence and civil defence components anywhere in these documents. Sir, the first page of the Report on the implementation of the plans of the defence of the Republic of Croatia and the implementation of defence preparations clearly and unequivocally stands. As far as the development of only the military component is concerned, the development of only the military component in paragraph 2 states: "an unsatisfactory relationship with civil defence issues, the defence preparations of the state authorities, the economy, social activities and protection and rescue". It is clearly and unequivocally described and in all further articles it is stated in 10 articles that it is a civil component of the defence, which means privatisation through civil defence, which means mobilization and which means all segments that I will probably be about if I come in line and say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-14-0.u23072	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. zastavnik Mršić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-14-0.u23073	Well, I just want to say that I wasn't talking about this document, I was talking about the document "The Defence System preparedness" where there's really no mention of the civil sector...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-14-0.u23074	Thank you, thank you. You don't need an explanation, only if the Rules of Procedure are injured. There's nothing further to explain. Now it's Mr. Representative Tomislav Culjak's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-14-0.u23075	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and fellow MPs, the Honorable Minister. Here, I'll give you a brief view of these reports. This annual report on the preparedness of the defence system, the implementation of the Staff Policy and the overall state of the Armed Forces for 2003 is an indication of the real and real state of the Armed Forces which has not been since yesterday and which is being added to everything that has preceded this situation since the Homeland War until today. These reports also speak clearly about the determination of the defence minister, Mr Rončević and the Government of the Republic of Croatia to present to the Croatian Parliament and the Croatian public the state without any embellishment, realistically as it is. In addition, it testifies to the removal of the code of secrecy from the report and the demystification of military secrets used by predecessors at the head of the Moral for similar reports, so that the real state of the Armed Forces could only be guessed. The situation shown in 2003 is not good, but it certainly is not catastrophic especially when we remember that our Croatian army was formed during the Homeland War from nothing and that such a victory was achieved in the Homeland War. It is good that the reports are not politically colored and I hold that, even in this debate, they should remain that way. I think that all of us share the goal of protecting national interests and strengthening the combat preparedness of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia. Reading these reports and a proposal for action to improve the overall state of affairs requires a clear need for full reform and the creation of a new organisation of the MRLs. As early as 2004, a whole series of measures were adopted that suggest a successful adjustment of the Croatian Army to NATO standards. The Republic of Croatia has opted for joining NATO and has therefore assumed obligations to adapt and restructure the Croatian Army into a less well-trained, well-equipped and more mobile armed force that will be compatible with NATO troops. We have a new time ahead, new demands, new technologies to be adapted to. I have no doubt in the success of these adjustments, and the best example is now the leadership of the military police, the 66th military police, who have successfully completed their tasks as part of a peacekeeping mission in Afghanistan. I believe that the Croatian Parliament will also contribute to this transformation of the Croatian Army by passing adequate laws but also by authorising adequate means to create an armed force that will be able and ready to respond to all threats to the Republic of Croatia and the challenges of any kind. Of course I'll support this report.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-14-0.u23076	Thank you very much. It's Mr. Representative of the Government of Plesko's turn to go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-14-0.u23077	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Mr. Secretary, I will brief on these reports on the state of defence systems in the Republic of Croatia and, in particular, at the beginning with one congratulations to Mr. Minister and his colleagues at the Ministry of Defence. For what reason? For the reason that he tried without a backup to show what the current situation in the Republic of Croatia is about the Armed Forces, and also because he is ready to deal with all the problems that exist in the defence forces of the Republic of Croatia. It reminds me of the time of the 1990s when we went unarmed and without any weapons and equipment practically into the defence of the Republic of Croatia and today we must start to prepare a small quality military force that will defend the interests of the Republic of Croatia. And on the other hand, I have to say that this report is in any case a review and an analysis of the current situation very well to be found on the Assembly benches without any secret that we can discuss it, that we can make remarks, that we can give our visions how to form a Croatian army. I also think that it's very objective and impartially written means talking about all those things that are really real in our army. But I will also say one fact as a representative in the first term of Parliament, that it is good that we all get to know each other who we are not particularly connected to military structures means all these problems we have. For what? Because the new budget for 2005 is coming soon, what other budgets will come in, budget rebalances, 2006 budgets, 2007 and if we know what the situation is like in the Armed Forces, then in this part we will also know how to put ourselves in good calculation means in a good assessment of the needs of the Ministry of Defence. Just as you can see through these reports, you can see the needs of the Republic of Croatia in the armed forces through several different factors. I'm going to divide it into two things, the first factors are in the needs of human resources, human potential, and the second ones are in part technical, so in the technical needs we can talk about arms, weapons and facilities owned by the Ministry of Defense. When we talk about human needs, I also think that the Ministry is taking care enough to introduce as many educated persons as possible to Croatia in future, high professional training and higher degrees of magistrates and doctors of science who, through the development of all plans and everything necessary, can agree on the proper needs of the Republic of Croatia. But I also have to say that through these technical needs, a kind of rationalisation should be introduced, as is evident through these reports, that we had technical means, different producers, in some cases different calibers, where a lot of resources went to the maintenance of such funds that were not compatible with each other and normally that such maintenance costs were always too high. We do not all need to mention that if there are 10 different specialised truck services that are much more expensive than if we have suppliers from one or two large companies in Europe who deal with means of transport only one example. But I also have to go back to a part of the human potential and there is then a manual composition and connect a little with other efforts that have been heard in this House of Commons, which means that through the legal frameworks of regulation of the military obligation of the handbook because I also think there, I must remind myself again of the 90th year that with the lack of equipment we had in military equipment in the means of military use that we had one great spirit all Croats in defense of the Republic of Croatia. I think that through the manual assembly today and in the future one high military readiness and the Croatian Army's closure can be maintained, but provided that a little change in the Law of Service in the Croatian Army is made, because I believe that civil service of the military is not entirely what the Republic of Croatia should, in particular, have happened in several recent years, that civil service of the military period was quite different from that primary obligation and that it means serving in humanitarian organisations, serving for the needs of health and in some such institutions while it was far more widespread in other ways and, later, there is not one that can be of importance in defence opportunities. In order not to take too much time, I believe that the complete report is a good demonstration of the situation which is one appeal for future budgets for all of us, and especially this year's one that comes in 2005. I'd like to conclude with a few sentences. Firstly, I believe that we will all agree together that the next budget needs to provide greater funds for investment in the defence of the Republic of Croatia, meaning equipment, the acquisition of new techniques and the repair of the technique currently available and not in combat. I also repeat, it is necessary to review the legal regulations regarding the manual composition and one more thing that I have not noticed that someone here mentioned today, which is to ensure the possibility of destroying the war funds. This is through the report that we have in the Republic of Croatia in many warehouses a lot of war-killing assets that are not adequate and that can no longer be used, and these deadly means can even be a danger to settlements that are near these signs of warehouses and these military facilities. So through the following calculations, you should think about how these deadly assets will be destroyed in an acceptable way harmless to the civilian population. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-14-0.u23078	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative Marian Bekavac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-14-0.u23079	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. This is for the first time that the report on the readiness of the defence system and the implementation of staff policy and the overall situation in the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia, as well as the report on the implementation of the defence plan of the Republic of Croatia and the implementation of the defence preparations are brought here publicly before the Croatian National Assembly. This is certainly commendable and commendable for the transparency of the work of the Ministry of Defence and the Republic of Croatia, the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which without the complex shows the situation in the armed forces as it is with all its positive and negative sides. A report on the implementation of the defence plan of the Republic of Croatia and the implementation of defence preparations for the period 2003 shows that the problem of defence preparations has not been brought to life in a systematic manner. On the basis of the decision of the Defence Act, no decision has been taken on the methodology for drawing up the plans for the defence of the Republic of Croatia and no sublegal acts necessary to draw up the defence plan for all defence preparations. ... Governments of the Republic of Croatia to date by state authorities of the state administration, so for 2003. I hope that in the 2004 report, most of these sublegal acts that regulate this matter will be passed, and then we will have a better picture of regulation in this extremely important area. The only planning document that has been brought in has been a preparedness plan from the Homeland War since 1991. Of course, the conditions and circumstances when this plan has been adopted in relation to the current situation of our happiness have changed significantly, so that today in a peaceable state we must do everything to be prepared in the future for potential threats to the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia mainly for the reasons of certain instability in the neighbourhood. The NATO Alliance will certainly further strengthen the security and protection of the Republic of Croatia and make the Republic of Croatia safer under the NATO Alliance umbrella. The current Government is, on the basis of the provisions of the Defence Act and the operational plan for the implementation of the Government of the Republic of Croatia's 2007 programme, in the process of adopting sublegal regulations regulating this important matter. I believe that these sublaws should be adopted as urgently as possible, and after collecting all the necessary opinions from the competent authorities of the state administration and other institutions. The Republic of Croatia, as a candidate for NATO and the European Union, clearly demonstrates its intention in the field of defence, aims to make a turn in the area of defence, and implements modern retro-tramic procedures in strategic, normative, organisational and operational-planning areas, thus creating conditions for better implementation of defence preparations. The Republic of Croatia as a whole must strengthen its capabilities and prevent the management of possible crises, in peace, in a state of direct threat and war. and mastering disorders in such a emerging situation. Retromic procedures in the military defence component of creating a strategic defence review, making proposals for a new organisation of MOTH, making... documents of the armed forces and similar... work on the civil component of defence planning. The completion of the aforementioned processes will speed up the work on the organisation's work and the preparation of civil defence documents. In addition to regulation, efforts will need to be made to improve the situation in the armed forces, to further equip and train the professional training of personnel in the armed forces. I also think it is necessary to further educate our men in the armed forces as soon as possible to welcome any possible threats. Finally, I accept this report and give full support to the Minister and the Government for this transparent report, and we hope that the 2004 report will certainly be better and more content. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-14-0.u23080	Thank you very much. Ms. Representative Milanka Opačić, please. Mr. Representative Josip Djakić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-14-0.u23081	Thank you very much, Vice President. So, speaking today in the debate, a lot has been said and it should be stressed that the report on the implementation of the defence plan of the Republic of Croatia and the implementation of defence preparations is actually a document that will be the goal and direction of all the employees of the Ministry of Defence and the General Staff, as well as of all the authorities of the state authorities that, from these mentioned shortcomings that have been recorded and which have not been broken down throughout this time and all these years, for who knows what reasons some are married systematically, some financial and some deliberately likely. Thus, in the past period, the problem of defence preparations has not been brought to life with the system in a systematic manner under the provisions of the Defence Act, yet no decision has been made on the methodology for the development of defence plans in the Republic of Croatia. They also did not adopt sublegal acts, which represent its addition, and are necessary for the development of defence plans for all holders of defence preparations. Under the aim of the holder of defence preparations in this segment applies to both the Croatian Parliament and the Croatian Government, which are also necessary in the defence preparations to have professional personnel and to carry out defence preparations, to carry out those holders of defence preparations and all that is needed from logistics to people who will participate in it with the exact places and schedules of who, where belongs and what is doing in the event of the threat of the Republic of Croatia? This has not been done to date or perhaps part of it has been done, but it certainly needs to be done much more, the staff exists, it needs to be directed, redistributed, placed in places, given instinctive tasks, which is visible from this that it is not done. I mean, it's really amazing when we have to realize that the only planning document that's been adopted is the 91st preparedness plan that has been conducted operationally during the Homeland War, so it continues with some additions and changes, really to make a threat that nothing further has been done on the plan of preparing and defending the homeland. It is certainly clear that we have focused on all other difficulties that follow the development of the Croatian homeland. But there are also paid personnel in the Ministry of Defence, in the defence offices, in the defence administrations that should have been in the state administrations that should have certainly drawn up documents at lower levels, brought them together at regional levels, and also those in the ministry accepted these documents and put together a complete defence plan of the Republic of Croatia. The state of combat preparations was mentioned here in 2003 at the time of the start of the new government's mandate as they were found, so it was taxed in ten points, which was all found. It is said that the development of only the military component and the reconstruction of the military component is actually one of the factors that has not been given much more attention to the civil component. The military component itself, the Homeland War testimonies say that a military component without a civilian population, without civilian structures, is nothing. It does not constitute any force or power unless it has the support of civil structures, unless it has logistics, unless it has no accommodation, unless there are no transport vehicles, unless it has all the segments needed in defence activities. It is said that inconsistencies in the implementation of conceptual and legal solutions, insufficient recognition of changes in the nature of threats in modern conditions, unorganised and inconsistencies of the defence preparation holder to certain types of threats, especially if there is a greater crisis or emergency. Selective determination according to current priorities. The defence plan of the Republic of Croatia has not been adopted as a basic plan document on the basis of which all other defence preparedness holders, military and civil defence plan and coordinate their own action in achieving the defence objectives. Thus, part of the plan of defence of the Republic of Croatia, the assessment of the dangers and the plan of action of the Republic of Croatia in the event of disasters and possible weapons of mass destruction incidents has not been adopted. And that was an international obligation that was not respected. Staff problems at all levels of organisation and implementation of defence preparations are a lack of professional and professional staff. Privatisation of legal entities which are important and important for the defence of the Republic of Croatia primarily by public undertakings, while not insisting on taking over obligations related to defence preparations by new owners, as regards means of transport which have otherwise been in offices and defence administrations always lined up, allocated to certain units and carried out the transport of military, funds and other in the absence of real funds in military or unit. In the regulations of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, in the internal organisation of the Ministry, state administrative organisations and government offices, it is not clear about defence preparations. I mean, to not believe that they didn't recognize the jobs of defense preparations. We all know what it is and what it's supposed to be. But if we don't share criticism or lessons should go further, we need to be interested in how, with as much savings as possible in the MORH, to do as strong a ministry and as strong a military as possible. So I can personally say from my vision and experience that today's kamazi and those lice who spent 100 liters of gasoline per 100 kilometers should definitely be written off from the Croatian Army and never again used, that a new technique that consumes diesel fuel with less consumption and greater effects and greater power should be organised. Also, it's not a laugh that tank T 55 is 30 years old. It is today for use and let us not be afraid that it will not work effectively in every opportunity and every threat to Croatia. We used to get older, and we used to defend our country with our elders. What they respected was that in a document called the Proposal for an Annual Report on Defence System preparedness, the implementation of Staff Policy and the overall state of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, I must say that they probably did not read this complete document, that they did not analyse it because it is in fact complete content that is not done, what should be done and how should be done. So on page five, I'm going to underline what's in the conclusion that I look back briefly. None of the countries in the surrounding Republic of Croatia pose a direct security threat to the Republic of Croatia. There are no indications of a conventional military threat to the Republic of Croatia, but in public asymmetric threats such as organised crime in some countries in the southeast part of the region poses a certain security risk to the Republic of Croatia. These are the security assessments that are actually always made and worked and I think that today there really is no real threat to the Republic of Croatia from any neighbouring country other than the one that is called perhaps in pre-election activities or in the post-election itself that some radical leaders block again that Virovitica, Karlovac, Karlobag, their goal and aspirations can freely forget it and it can be a laugh that no longer has a limit or laughter from the deck to call it. But here's what I'd like to say for a little while until my time is up. Under the conclusions on page 16, Mr. Mr. Gristle, he's not listening now, he's talking to the minister who probably knows what the blink looks like and how to drive in it. We are critical of the current state of defence preparations is literally a problem for the integrity of the defence system, i.e. Despite how many normative arrangements. Her segments... the executive levels are nevertheless not sufficiently identified and are therefore practically in marginal position in the MRLs and other resolutes. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, the realisation of the modern direction of targeted defence and the need for its harmonisation should be one of the more important objectives of defence reform. I think this on page 16 actually said everything that's goal and aspirations and in that conclusion I think it's visible that it's actually worrying about what's going to be next.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-14-0.u23082	Thank you very much. Now the word has Mr. Agent Ivan Bagarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-14-0.u23083	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. After so much exhaustive exposure, I will indeed try to shorten my discussion and after those who have been exposed here and have performed the duties of ministers, deputy ministers and generals, it is indeed an honor to join and say something. So, by the fall of the Berlin Wall, by collapse of the Soviet Union at the end of the Cold War, etc. The world has not become what we wanted and wanted but has actually become even more chaotic and more dangerously characterized by numerous threats of unequal distribution of wealth, confrontation in cooperation, problems in the distribution of tell-tales in the north and south, environmental domain problems, arms distribution, mass destruction, international crime, and increased trafficking in human beings and drugs. These are all threats that both the Republic of Croatia and the one that should be kept in mind and cared for in a certain way. Therefore, the defence of the country in the modern world involves a defence plan of which is an armed force, hence the naval forces and aviation only one in a series of elements. There should certainly be an in mind that health care as a segment, transport, telecommunications, information, the energy economy and above all political will should find its place in one, I would say to joint action with the aim of defending the country in a broader sense of the word. So, if we just get away from this war danger and war, then anything else that could endanger the country I would call it or be called termologically extraordinary events and can be divided into those extraordinary events related to natural disasters, and then for technological incidents. And also for biologicals as such. What general answer can Croatia or today the world have on such difficult issues as terrorism or such? Only one. And he's also asking how effective he is. And that's premature. So prevent disaster or extraordinary event. Prevent to a certain extent. Every extraordinary event has two phases, one phase should have been a risk reduction before the catastrophe, so that's exactly the kind of prevention I'm talking about and preparedness for it. Only phase two is the answer, the rehabilitation, the reconstruction of the unwanted event. And they primarily depend on how much we've been prepared and how much we've done in terms of prevention. If we're good at prevention, then these answers to the extraordinary event are strong and high-quality. The Croatian Government should therefore have a plan and a response to this may be essential and the Ministry of Defence and, for example, the Ministry of Health and other institutions should be intrusive in order to actually talk about this incomprehensible part of which I am talking about should make some kind of Join defense in a broader sense of defence. at the end when we talk about this topic and this matter, then we, like all of you here, come to remember and to the beginning of the war in Croatia. But it's something that's up to date today in terms of the subject but also in terms of memories primarily and above all people. So the man at the centre of attention. We must remember now all the Croats who defended this country. All citizens of all nationalities in Croatia who have also defended this country and made great sacrifices. As well as all those outside Croatia, numerous volunteers and Croats, especially from Bosnia and Herzegovina, deserve respect and should not disturb anyone. And Croatia's response to them and to their victims. In fact, respecting these people has actually confirmed us all here and Croatia's confirmation. It is in favour of Croatia and should be aware of that. Let me say this, and to me, this moment in memory, yesterday the deceased Andrija Bartolić, president of HVIDRE Split Dalmatian so to him and all those who fought and gave their lives for Croatia every respect. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-14-0.u23084	Thank you very much. 5 minutes on behalf of the club Mr. Pero Kovačević on behalf of HSPa.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-14-0.u23085	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. It's a sad fact that today means I don't have a defense plan, we don't have a plan to use the armed forces, we don't have a long-term plan to develop the armed forces, we don't have an action plan in case of incidents in case of major elemental accidents and everything else. And you see, in 91, we had this, on August 17, 91, the late President Tudjan also adopted a plan for the armed forces' preparedness, and a plan for the preparations of the Republic of Croatia. The plan of winning the military, we had a plan of functioning of the economy, we had a plan of action and the functioning of civil protection, Mr. Luka Bebić was a minister at the time. I was president of the task force, and we did it all, and we set up a defense system that worked, and we won this war. And now we're coming to 2004 and we see that from what we have nothing left. One victorious army that was a respectable force after the end of the Homeland War, the Croatian army was brought to what kind of branches it was brought to. And so this is why we thank the government for realistically showing what the situation is. But as of today, we here, too, are being held responsible for repairing this situation. We must oversee our constitutional role. First of all through the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security, follow everything. We expect from the Government an urgent programme of measures and activities on the development and adoption of all these plans and progarms that are important to have an effective defence system. And that we have an armed force that can respond to all threats. It's also important to note here there's been a lot of debate, let's take examples of Germany. On the basis of the real estate held by the German army, Germany carried out the structure in such a way that one part of the property was sold, the other part was awarded to concessions or were leased. And in this way, the means are provided for the reconstruction of the German army, and we know what a German army is capable and powerful today. And on the other hand filled the budget. So let's not say there's no money, let's not just look at the state budget, let's say that part, and we know that there are valuable military properties we take across the Adriatic, let's take advantage of it in large cities. And I'm glad that the minister once said it and admitted it was one of the options, it's not possible that so far military properties have been donated to municipalities and cities and per kuna. And it was already known who would come and how, and on the other hand, all these municipalities and cities sat down on the way to the Ministry of Defence because they did not pay municipal contributions. That's one thing we can run from. It's still about time these radars were set up, Mr. Minister. Those radars were purchased in '99, cost 94 million dollars, they became old from day to day. When we ask them, they'll be old-fashioned radar, and that's important to us, and for the Adriatic issue, it's important for us because it's one of the important beginnings to move in a way that needs to go. Therefore, we must be aware that from today on we are together both for the president of the state and for the government to be responsible for this condition no longer being left. And we need to monitor and monitor that. And I hope the government will come up with solutions soon. In this way, what I'm saying is, you have to bring these planical documents and there's an inside source of how and how to make the defense system respond. 'Cause I'm saying, God forbid we get any kind of accent, we don't have the ability to react. We don't have the power and resources. You don't know who's doing what, because it's important at a given time that everyone is working uniquely to know who's doing what. And now we don't have it arranged. And we can't let it stay that way anymore. But he's got to go around conscious this year, so now he's 10 months away for two and a half months. The government doesn't have a lot of time, if I want to report and do something that's going to produce results so that the same situation doesn't happen for a year when the report is filed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-14-0.u23086	Thank you very much. In the name of Klub Libre Mr. Jose Radosh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-14-0.u23087	Mr. Vice President, I'd just like to finally clear up some things and maybe send some messages. So there was a dispute between the minister and me regarding the funds that were intended for material, financial and other expenditure this year. So, this year it's for these purposes, and that's all that's left of the pay, it's supposed to be a billion and 62 million kuna, and last year it was in the execution of 1,397,000 kuna, and that's about 40% less this year. Of course, that doesn't mean how much of that waste is on the technique, on the maintenance of the technique, but let's assume that the other costs are the same, financially, and then for the technique it will remain less, so it can be concluded or assumed that the state of the technique is actually going to be equal or even worse because it's significantly less money for that purpose. But I personally don't think that's the problem. It is not our problem that the technique is maintained with 30%, because it is not even a direct danger that threatens the Republic of Croatia. Croatia is in no condition to be directly at risk, so that it should have aviation at 70 or 80% maximum, especially as it is an old technique, maintaining an old high-level technique is very, very expensive and in these circumstances when there is no indication of any near threat of the Republic of Croatia is a question of the meaning of costs of such great money on lifting, on keeping the technique, say aviation at 60% preparedness. We had about 50% of our best days. So I don't think that's the problem. What I see as a problem, and in that sense I will ask the questions of the defence minister, it is the question of the completion of phase 1 of the reform. According to what can be read from this, which means that on February 1st of this year there were 30,544 employees, and that for the whole year 30,040, does this mean that this reform which is still 5,000 above what is written in the books, which is 24,977, does that mean that this 1st phase of reform has stopped? That's an important question. We've reduced the number of soldiers, but the number of civilians in the Department of Defense and the Armed Forces should be 4,000. Today we still have 8,000 civilians, what's going on with that? That's a very important question. These civilians cost about 300 million kuna a year. That money cannot then go to the professional army, neither for equipment, nor for training, nor for modernising. That's the first question I'd like the minister to answer. Secondly, an even more important issue is the issue of the second phase of reform, and it cannot begin without the adoption of a long-term plan for the development of the Armed Forces. When the Ministry of Defence plans to propose a long-term plan to the Croatian government for the development of the Armed Forces and when we will adopt the plan here in the Parliament. Without that plan, there is no point in starting phase two of the Armed Forces reform. These are two questions that I ask the Minister of Defense, which are much more important than whether we have a state of naval assets of more than 50 or less than 50% at this time, whether the state of aviation is more than 30 or 40 percent and what is the state of this land-based technique. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-14-0.u23088	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister Berislav Roncevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-14-0.u23089	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. On the defence plan as a basic act, which, from which many sublegal acts regulating this issue arise, I have already answered, but after that several MPs have taken the matter into consideration. Our internal deadline for ourselves at the Ministry of Defence is to create a framework, a strategic defence review framework, as a preparation for the completion of the 3rd cycle of the membership action plan that I expect sometime in April of this year, next year, forgive me. It is part of reforming the reconstruction and NATO's ambition to adapt our armed forces. The findings that we receive from NATO and the last... from NATO expert teams say that this is a well-chosen direction of reconstruction and that in that part we have done a lot, and among other things, NATO's final document on Istanbul, if you carefully read it, is talking about the important progress of the Adriatic Charter countries including Croatia and what we wanted from NATO summits is the possibility that the next round of membership is not working on summits, but that NATO foreign ministers can make an assessment of each country's individual achievement on their ministerial councils. We believe that within these deadlines we will end this process. We've made an assessment of the current situation. For 2003, she is like this, with 31.12. when we conclude a rough draft of a strategic defence review, she will be convinced, she will have a much better picture, because in the field of technique and the removal of the observed shortcomings was made very much, normally thanks primarily to the engagement of people who work on it, but normal and correct orientation, the proper direction of financial resources. None of the existing branches within the Armed Forces and the elements of the Beaver Forces have been neglected and the Land Army and the Navy have been developed with some change in role, given the change in the threat, as well as the Croatian Air Force, only the squadrons of combat aircraft have been halved, since there is no objective need to maintain the existing status of fighter aircraft, based on which this 2003 report was based, which normally created such a low percentage of regularity. Truck program. This report covers about 60 different types and models of trucks by various tones, and we don't have to spend words here and say how terrible and unnecessary the cost of maintaining such a program and simply to eliminate these shortcomings and stop spending unnecessary money on restoring something that simply can't be fixed, because it's definitely and long since its working life has expired, so these imports and kamazi, as Mr Djakic said, don't spend 100 liters but we're spending more. In this year we wrote off in the first 9 months 790 of these motor vehicles and made a list and estimate of others and in the following year it was already prepared for the write-off of 700 motor vehicles. Normally, we develop a truck program, except for the purchase of an armored infantry vehicle by us another strategic project in support of the technical support of the Croatian Land Army. The radar system, the sky and the sea, I think I've already explained it. The "Sky" radar system, three radar locations have been installed and tests carried out, all in accordance with high standards of nature protection. The Sea radar system, from 4 locations 2 are set up, and 2 are in construction and we think that this job should be completed by the end of the year. These radar systems are programmed and here we can say, they were purchased in '98. The whole transaction went through the Ministry of Defence, but according to our assessment, they will only require 20% for the use of Croatian Armed Forces, and we will be able to hand it over normally to the use of Croatian air navigation control, which will increase the control and safety of air traffic in Croatia, and we do not need to explain what this means for then Croatian airports, especially those at sea and Croatian tourism. Real estate. Last December's census on 31st of last year included 577 military properties. Real estate is state property only entrusted to the Ministry of Defence. The Ministry of Defence does not make decisions on ownership since it is not formally owned. During 2004, 269 non-perspective real estates were prepared to develop basic data labs, and of which 218 elaborates were forwarded to the Central State Office for the Management of State Property. As the Central State Office, the position of the Government is to assess the quality of the programme, to give the championship to programmes offering the possibility of new employment in Croatia and in all contracts, since I am also a member of this commission, there are clauses in all contracts unless the donated property is brought to the purpose of which it is donated, taken away and returned to state property. Normally, they will also find their support in government and the State Commission for the needs of higher education in Croatia. In the end, ladies and gentlemen, I thank everyone for the debate. I thank you for having received this report in a proper manner, for not succumbing to an atmosphere of blackness that was tried to impose some kind of media. This is the condition of 31.12. I repeat, realistically shown without any desire to create a bad look because another political option did so in the previous term. And without any desire to create any personal alibi for any possible failure. I am convinced that this defence and security system of the Republic of Croatia will be transformed into a way that will lead us into NATO. And once again, I would like to thank you for your support on this trip. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-14-0.u23090	Thank you, Minister. I'm closing the debate. The next item is the Report on the implementation of the defence plan of the Republic of Croatia and the implementation of defence preparations with the Proposal for an annual report on the preparedness of the defence system, the implementation of the human resources policy and the overall state of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security, I am voting on the following conclusion, under 1 - A report on the implementation of the plan for the defence of the Republic of Croatia and the implementation of defence preparations and under 2 - The proposal for an annual report on the preparedness of the defence system, the implementation of human resources and the overall state of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia is hereby adopted. Please come in. The vote. Score. I find that with 100 votes in favour, 7 abstentions and 4 against the proposed conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-14-0.u23198	Your Honor, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Before you is the 2003 report on the work of state lawyers, which represents a review of the work of 58 municipal, 19 county state lawyers, USKOK and the State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia. And in both segments covered by the State's Attorney's Office, which is both in criminal and civil matters. The methodological approach of our Report comes from our constitutional and legal definition that you are familiar with, and also particularly in accordance with the provisions of Article 34. A law on state's attorney's office that says it must contain a review of our work in criminal and civil-government matters, but not data on concrete criminal or civil matters. On the other hand, we will be delivering reports on certain items or areas, depending on your interest, but reportedly under the designation of secrecy. First of all, to protect the damages and other participants in these proceedings. However, this report contains something else. It provides a review of the state and movement of crime in the Republic of Croatia because without bringing this data to one another, in connection with our work you cannot assess the quality of our work and what we really did in the observed year. On the other hand, the indicators contained in the Report give the right not only to control it but also to use these statistical indicators to detect the problem in their environments, i.e. that they can take other appropriate measures that they need. To move on to the specific parts of the Report that I consider to be the most important because it is indeed exhaustive material that you cannot and there is no time to show to you fully, given that time is limited to your Rules of Procedure. So, first of all, I just have to say, I have to point out that our statistical indicators at the State's Attorney's Office are being guided by individuals. It's very important that you know that, in order not to come to the wrong conclusions given the police reports that are being conducted by criminal acts. In fact, in our case, one applicant is one of the most serious crimes, not the many crimes he has committed in his work. This is for practical reasons and for taking into account the fact that the State's Attorney's office is ultimately going to court, that is to say, in public with its own actions, and that it must thus keep its records. However, before I say anything about our work, I would like to give you basic indicators of the movement and structure of crime in the previous period. In 2003, according to statistical indicators, there was a 3% increase in crime as it stems from these numerical indicators. Namely, the known and unknown perpetrators reported a total of over 92 thousand, slightly more than last year. Looking at the structure of these applicants 55.7% refers to known perpetrators and 44.3% to unknown perpetrators. Speaking of this category, I might say it concerns the fact that every year, however, there is an increase in unknown perpetrators, so it is also a burden on the police, the inspection services and the State's Attorney's office to stop this trend of increasing unknown perpetrators. However, regardless of all this, the statistical indicators we gave in our report and what really happened in 2003 show that there is no reason to worry about this trend in crime growth every year. In fact, we have provided parameters showing not only the representation of crime in certain counties of our country but we have also given parallel representations to neighbouring countries from which indicators show that we are far below them, which is very good, compared to the number of persons reported compared to 100,000 inhabitants. A thousand 987 reported, i.e. crimes in the Republic of Croatia, are on 100,000 inhabitants, and in the Republic of Slovenia, which has approximately the same parameters, similar criminal law or procedural provisions, there are as many as 3 thousand 869 crimes. Something about structure to tell you, the most represented are property crimes, 33%. Then crimes against freedom and the rights of man and citizen, while criminal acts of drug abuse are somewhat less represented than in earlier years because of the decline of some 9%. They're in stagnation, which is a very important crime against life and the body, and every year we're getting more peaceful. In minors, the situation is significantly different, minors usually commit property crimes, and that's about 61% somewhere, and the other is drugs 21%. What we've been doing over the past year compared to these criminal charges. Our report shows that we had about 70,000 people working on something that we solved from the newly received and most of it. When I say most, 55,000 applications have been resolved while at the end of the year there are still unresolved around slightly less than 15,000 applications. However, when I say that the rest is unresolved, then I think that almost all these criminal charges remain unsolved because at different stages of the check, they were in police, inspection services or in investigative actions before the courts. In the lawyers themselves, there are only a thousand 265 criminal charges left pending or 1.9% of the total number of work reports. Less than this couldn't because it's actually a ten-day inflow of criminal charges. As regards the urgency of the work of state lawyers in this criminal segment, I must stress that not only have relatively few pending applications remained in relation to those received during the year, but most importantly that we have included deadlines where applications were made with other authorities, police, inspections, investigative courts, etc., case proceedings, on average reduced to less than 4 months and in this year it will fall to three months and 90 days, respectively, which is a European standard of solving criminal cases as a whole. As for the decisions we have made in connection with the filed criminal charges, the situation is about the same as it shows from the graphics you have in front of you, the rejection of 35.6%, as compared to that, I can say that the number of rejections must be linked to the number of criminal charges submitted and the increase. In fact, when we talk about the increase in crime, we have to take care of the fact that this year we have had more rejections of criminal charges so that the decision and conclusion regarding the increase can only be made correctly if we bring them into line with these two parameters. We directly accused 55% of the people, and the investigation into everything in 8.8%. Why do I say investigation into everything at 8.8%? Thanks to other changes to the Criminal Procedure Act, as well as trends that state attorneys together with the police are taking on an increasing number of reconnaissances and background checks, the state's attorneys together with the police are trying to carry out as many reconnaissances as possible, and therefore the number of investigative requests is much smaller than ever before, for example, just one year before we had almost 18% of investigations and now 8, we hope that there will be even less. In relation to the number of rejections of criminal charges, they can only point out that we seek to make as much use of the reasons of the opportunity as possible, a legal basis for the rejection of criminal charges very often applied to minors and adults, in the case of adjudicating offences. When I say "bagatile" then those crimes for which minimum penalties are prescribed where it is more appropriate for lawyers or law enforcement authorities to give a message to the applicant that this is no longer the case, and not that it brings them before the court because of the exaggeration of the reports and thus burdens the courts and does not achieve any result. A significant indicator that should also be stressed that in 2003 we received a total of 27.4% of the convictions more than a year earlier, it shows that still the reform of the judiciary in a certain way began to produce results because 30% of the convictions more than a year ago is still a significant indicator that is very important in relation to the backlogs we have and in the criminal justice system. As far as the kind of verdicts are concerned, there's a pretty good situation if not great. 87.6% are condemning judgments compared to those made, 7% are liberating and 5.4% refutable. In relation to these percentages, I think as a lawyer's office, we can be satisfied with the fact that we've properly filed charges or charges and that a relatively small number of acquittals, so 7%. That number would have been much smaller if we hadn't done a review of criminal cases or war crimes last year, which I will talk about later when we talk about the specific aspects of our persecution in relation to these crimes. However, as far as criminal sanctions are concerned, your situation is like this: 10.9% are sentencing unconditional prison sentences, 65.8% are suspended sentences, and 18% are fines. We have a trend in the continuation of the trend of the fall of unconditional prison sentences, however, the situation is what it is, among other things, the Committee on Justice discussed this in particular, and our prominent criminal law professors in that section specifically pointed out that we are thus approaching these European standards, so that we do not need to be particularly concerned. In this regard, I must say that in preparation for one of our expert consultations to analyse a criminal policy which will be completed at the end of the year in which it will be shown or already proved that, regardless of the impediment in the criminal laws that have changed over these years, criminal policy remains approximately the same, but in that respect, when that report is finished. Against every 8 convictions, the state's attorneys complained 50% of it for a decision on punishment. And only in that part, and that's my point of view, in that part where the state's attorneys have invested, filed complaints about the penalty decision, we can say that we're unhappy with criminal policy until we can't say it in relation to other verdicts because otherwise we'd be complaining. It is important that my view, personally and as a state lawyer, is that in some farces, some counties of these complaints should be more so that criminal policy in the entire territory of the Republic of Croatia is evened out and that citizens are evened out before the courts. It is particularly important that 50% of our complaints are adopted. However, I must say one more thing about criminal policy. In recent years, there have been particularly interesting alternative ways of solving criminal cases, which is that it is a legislator, or you have given us authority to have the State's attorneyship in a certain way in one phase of the proceedings and for minor crimes can be a certain way and a judge. In fact, there's a possibility that we can handle the so-called. Criminal orders and we do so in as many as 27 and a few percent of cases and most of these criminal orders are accepted by courts without objection or further proceedings. In this way, we have significantly disbursed the courts in relation to these minor crimes and thus helped to reduce their backlogs. However, this has led the State's Attorney's Office to take responsibility for criminal policy because in those 27% we propose a kind of sanctions and height and it is generally accepted. Compared to minors, I may only say that in minors, as opposed to minors, there has been a decline in the number of criminal charges filed for many years, which is very good. 2002. 16%, 2003. 6%. It is also significant that the acts of violence often spoken of in our media in minors are not so recorded in lawyers or police, but that acts of violence have been on the same level for several years, that there is no increase or fall without serious acts of violence, but mostly milder forms of these crimes. You've got a lot more detail about that in the report, but given the time, I need to be shorter. It's interesting that I tell you something from the part of the report that concerns UskoK. DECLARATION or the Office for the Prevention of Corruption and Organized Crime is a body operating for two years in the State's Attorney's Office as a particularly specialised State Attorney's Office. Last year, there were 470 applications in their work. A good part or a large part of it for organised crime and another part for corruption. Of all things, it is most interesting for the assessment of their work so far that the courts, acting on their charges, have reached 41 verdicts, of which 37 convictions. 65% of prison sentences have been brought in for criminal offences from the office's jurisdiction. You'll remember that on average, it's 10% prison sentences. So, in a certain way, the office still achieves better results and I think that with certain legal improvements and better teamwork that is currently under way, it can achieve the purpose and result of why it is established. I won't tell you much about areas or areas of individual crime because we don't have time for that. The only thing I would like to say is that in crimes against the freedom and rights of man and citizen in a terrible increase is the crime of the threat referred to in Article 129. A penal code that accounts for 87% of all crimes. It's an amazing piece of information, everyone threatens in this country, but fortunately it doesn't result in the consequences of these threats. Especially according to the decision of the Assembly Committee, we will report on these crimes, so I think it will be available to you in a certain way. In relation to crimes against humanity and peace and war crimes, I would particularly refer to the crimes of war crimes. From 1991 to the end of 2003, 4000 721 people were reported for war crimes in the Republic of Croatia. This was primarily in 1995 and 1996, later this trend of happiness in decline, and last year that number was only 96 people. Last year, 26 convictions and 13 acquittals were brought against these crimes. So here you can see that we have had a relatively large number of acquittals. However, as we have seen, especially in the early years of the Homeland War, the state's attorneys went too far in war crimes charges, although, according to subsequent positions and crystallized case-law, we have done so in a certain way to review these old cases or earlier crimes against the Republic of Croatia, which are covered by the Law or by the law of general forgiveness, which we have done in the last two years, in a certain way. And in a good part, we gave up a significant number of indictees or persons against whom an investigation was launched to bring this into one objective measure and, of course, according to the law only in those situations where there are indeed signs of this crime and sufficient evidence depending on the stage in which the proceedings are held. I specifically instructed all state attorneys that they could no longer be in Croatia in absentia. Why? For a number of reasons. First of all, there can be nothing of such a trial, the objectivity of the trial and the inability of the defendant to provide all evidence in his favour. On the other hand, according to our law, all these judgments must be repeated and the funds are spent, the terms of the court are taken, etc. and there is no final result. Finally, the International Community in that part also highlighted a number of objections over the absentee trial. Crimes related to drug abuse are down 9.2% last year. According to us in the State's Attorney's Office, the reason lies in the fact that last year a law was passed that never came into force of the Law on Amendments to the Criminal Code where the nearest form of this crime was transferred from criminal to criminal sphere and therefore there were fewer criminal charges for this crime and this resulted in this fall. For that matter, I can or must say that almost 73% of all criminal charges filed for this crime apply to the least forms of that crime, which is possession of intoxicating drugs. Our view is that, even with respect to minors, we need to apply as much as possible certain institutes of opportunity and the rejection of criminal charges for the application of Article 8 which speaks of insignificant criminal acts where, of course, it is easy or easier to intoxicate drugs, small quantities and persons caught for the first time in the execution of the crime. Otherwise, in these crimes, as many as 94% are convicted verdicts. The truth is, it's the easiest thing to prove, and I have to say it. The crimes of economic crime have been particularly processed in two segments as crimes against payment traffic security and operations that are participating in the total mass of crime with 7%. However, compared to these crimes, every year, the last three years have been recorded by a reduction in the number of criminal charges filed since 14, 16 and finally 12% in this last year. In this area, we have recorded a large number of criminal charges rejections of almost 44%. In accordance with Article 4 of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council, the European Parliament and of the Council are to be considered as ‘the European Parliament and the Council’. Penalty law. Why? Because different legal entities file criminal charges against each other, trying through the criminal sphere through the police, the state's attorney's office, etc. to put pressure on the other to pay some debts, etc. And that's how he gets to his goal. However, after proper checks, we do it the way I told you. 1413 convictions have been made for these crimes, most of them 82% are condemning, 12% liberating, and 6% refuting. The negative outcome is somewhat greater than the average, which is not for, which is not surprising since it's the kind of crime, where it's harder to prove, than whether it's in other property first of all. Penalties against official duty are slightly higher than last year, with a total crime rate of 5.2%. However, in relation to these crimes, I must say that a large number of both state officials and judicial officials and others are involved in their number. Why? I don't think there's an official in this country who hasn't been reported at least five times a year for a criminal part of abuse or a similar criminal act in this head. However, most of these criminal charges are unargumented and serve only each other's accounts or something, and none of them are in fact serious. The only more serious reports from this chapter and for this qualification come from the police. So, even 82% were rejections compared to these crimes. As far as the verdicts are concerned. 573 people have been found guilty of these crimes, of which 400 are even convicts, while 128 are liberating and reluctant, which shows that success here is somewhat lower than the December, but still good in terms of the weight of the work and qualifications. As for organised crime and corruption as the area concerned by USKOK, I will repeat in the shortest lines 410 reports, 56.1% refers to criminal acts of organised crime or organised crime, and 28.5% to corrupt crimes. As far as organised crime is concerned, 229 people have been reported for various forms of association in criminal organisations. You are given graphic images in our report, which tells you about the type of these criminal groups, organizations, etc. It is interesting that this number of persons reported last year is smaller than it was a year earlier, primarily because of decisions of the Supreme Court which do not allow the acquisition between the criminal section of Article 333 which speaks of criminal organisations, or groups and qualified forms of various criminal acts entering the area, for example on the abuse of intoxicating drugs, where dealing is concerned, etc. In this direction, the State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia took the initiative towards the Ministry of Justice to amend the USKOK Act and in a certain way to restore the jurisdiction of the USKOK and enable us to combat organised crime more effectively and better together with the Police. In relation to this organised crime 21 is a accused person, 17 is a condemning verdict, and 3 are liberating and one is refuting. I stress, these statistics show that USKOK has done its accusations correctly and that there are a number of judgments, rather than being perceived any time in public. As far as corrupt crimes are concerned, we must say that most of these criminal charges apply to the so-called. street corruption and, of course, we can't be satisfied. However, some and state officials were also reported to be one judge, a bankruptcy judge, a state lawyer and others, so not only those on the street, and we also successfully prosecuted that part. And the verdicts that have been passed, I think we can be satisfied with them, and that, in terms of taking bribes as well as giving bribes, because they're almost all judgmental. In relation to the criminal and legal protection of children and minors, we have particularly stressed the attitude of the state's attorney's office in relation to the protection of children and minors. However, because of the flow of time, I will not be able to speak to you in that part of it, and I do not feel that I need to stress, that although the Penal Code, the Law on Criminal Procedure has passed extraordinary and solutions to the protection of family and youth marriages, no implementing rules have been passed that allow these laws to come to an end, that is, to achieve the purpose and purpose for which they have been adopted. And now something about another part of our work, working on civil and administrative matters. As you know two years ago, the State's Attorney's Office and the former Public Attorney's Office have joined together into one state body, the State's Attorney's Office, the judicial body, or the State's Attorney's Office, and we are now working together as two parts of the same attorney's office. I think that merger has achieved its goal and purpose, because both are now working together on the most difficult forms and criminal proceedings of the case, but on the other hand the punishments are included in the most difficult forms of civil cases of particularly bankruptcy and in this way the quality of work on cases is significantly better than it was before. I have to say there's a terrible increase in the number of cases that civil-government departments of state's attorney's offices are doing. Last year, 111 thousand 633 new items were received, or 41% higher. Overall, there were 23.4% more subjects. The graphics show that the increase in all cases in the work is both judicial and other cases that we follow. About our work in this area are the most important litigation cases. The state's attorneys had 38 thousand litigation cases. In 17%, we're prosecutors, and 82% of the state is the defendant we represent. The total value of the subject matter of litigation was slightly over $11 billion. That's an important piece of information you need to know. From where we're prosecutors 2 billion 519, and where we're sued a lot more, 8 billion and almost 6 hundred. The largest number of disputes are disputes over the collection of debts where the state is a prosecutor, and where the state is sued, these are labour disputes, which represent as much as 54.7% of the lawsuits. I think the state can react by making deals, of course, where we evaluate where the prosecutors are right, and that can significantly facilitate and reduce backlogs in court. A similar situation is also the case in the case of executives which have been specifically processed. And as for work in both litigious and executive cases, we gave a special demonstration of the success of our work in these subjects. And...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-14-0.u23199	Try to finish up and you'll be able to do it again later.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-14-0.u23200	Now I'll just be done again. So we got 51% of the lawsuits, 8% lost, and 37% disputed was resolved by withdrawing claims or other ways. Maybe later, yeah. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-14-0.u23201	Thank you very much to the state's attorney, Mr. Bajic. If he wants to report to the board, take your word for it. The Committee on Justice, or the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities? They don't want to. Does the government want a representative? He's gone. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the SDP Club, Ms. Representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-14-0.u23202	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Mr. State's Attorney. My colleagues and colleagues. Whenever it comes to the report on the annual report on the work of the State's Attorney's Office, it is normal that it causes a huge public takeover that is completely natural. Because the state's attorney's office is the most important way for a single state, one society in general to stand up to and fight crime. Unfortunately, however, this important and important topic we are talking about today also after 17.00 that Mr. Vice President truly amazes me. Because the State's Attorney's report came to order a long time ago, and here we found his place, just before the end of his day. After 5:00. And I'm surprised to hear it's a very good report. So I'm surprised why today because yesterday I understand why we discussed the international stand by arrangement with the IMF, after 17.00 because see is not exactly one such successful and brilliant thing. So much for that, the very way the legislative authority refers to the judicial authorities. The SDP Club will immediately say at the outset accepts the report and supports this report, which was presented to the Parliament by the main expensive lawyer on the work of state attorneys for 2003. The report has already given rise to public attention in the end as well as a debate before our parliamentary committee. The Justice Committee. And that's what I would say, in general, already in the professional public, and it is widely seen in the general public as having significant characteristics of scientific research. So it's not some report that we here in the House are used to receiving some kind of shrub administrative act, but it's just such an act that is precisely and because of the way it's written it should be caused. And it's normal for us to allow him to get even more attention. Nevertheless, it shows only by its content. First of all, I would say that it shows that judicial reform has been on the right track in criminal reform these past few years and has undoubtedly shown results. That's what the facts say. That's what the attorney general said after all. The criminal legal reform began by not by means of a voluntary or voluntary government decision, but by working together with representatives and the Government of representatives of the legislative authority but also by a representative of the judicial authority. The basic objective was precisely in this one projection of criminal legal reform as a part of our overall important, most important reforms, the reforms in the judiciary, how to make it a whole more effective judiciary, how to eliminate the backlogs of how to end the statutes that marked the entire decade. And rather thanks to the then legislative authority, which is by force of the law, at the end of the day where the state's attorney and court by force of the law had to act. Because the reduced deadlines are obsolete, i.e., I would correct myself, are reduced by a special maximum for a large number of works that have been done so that according to the law they have come out of date. And then more than once, there was talk that it wasn't a problem for obsolescence to occur in a different way. In any case, in the way he caused it, I'd say, one big sassy one, which caused one complete apathy of the mistrust of citizens in the state and society. This was completely devastating in terms of morals, about trust, about faith in ideals of justice and justice. And what's going on today. Or here we are today discussing last year 2003 that the State's Attorney's Office is coming out here with such a joyous report that all the backlogs are being analized. It's something I think should cause a great deal of attention, one great encouragement. Finally, the report shows that the state and society in general are not and are not allowed to capitulate before crime. And otherwise this criminal legal reform, and with me, I would say, is one of three important aspects and how it yields results and what is visible from the report itself. It would kind of move in three directions. As far as legislative regulations, material conditions are concerned, and thirdly, the start of finally solving human resources problems, an acute issue of responsibility, so as to be a third factor. But basically here's the last thing I'm saying right now, but basically maybe the most important thing in this whole thing. As far as legislation itself is concerned, it seems that it is the most responsible for such good results, i.e. the very novel of the Criminal Procedure Act. The novel is important for several reasons, primarily because it has made it possible to increase the efficiency of the criminal justice system in general, all participants, greater discipline but also has provided a simple and higher period of time and the state's attorney's office itself. It also came from the report itself, and it was personally mentioned by the chief attorney general that it gave the state's attorney the possibility of something that we stepped up, I would say, in the 21st century of the Criminal Procedure Act and finally got away from that Austrian, inquisitor model, and that's even in an investigation that we still haven't solved that it's possible to solve the case and that by a metric decision. It's also possible that settlements and most of the results are given and... the possibility of issuing criminal orders. [[/the speaker doesn't understand.]] Finally, the simplification of the formal procedure itself tells the very fact that 17% of the cases went through the investigation before, and that now this amended criminal procedure is only 8.8. So how much is this savings and resources and state money and the effort itself and ultimately gives better results here I wouldn't repeat myself there was a detailed talk about it by the attorney general. Croatia, i.e. as a coalition government and as a government, we have voted and adopted amendments, significant changes in material rights. Unfortunately, as already known here, the Constitutional Court has, for reasons not passed by the required majority, abolished the law amending the criminal law. The opposition today's government was saying against the law, but for reasons because there was an amendment in the proposal and the proposed amendment regarding what the chief state attorney also spoke about and how they struggled to get out, because they were overloaded, therefore using the Institute of Resistance. It's about that banal crime that doesn't belong, which shouldn't belong in this criminal zone, i.e. The crime of drug possession. However, if it were just one cover, it now speaks unequivocally of the fact that they were voted by the new government, changes to the minor amendments to the Penal Code that concern only adaptations to international standards and conventions, and they do not speak of all the significant changes that were so necessary and reports show that they are so necessary, but which the citizens of these countries also expect from us and that they had the right to expect. Better incrimination and better sanctioning and stricter sanctioning economic crime. However, there is no question about it. I can see that here when it's mentioned they come in and out of the HDZ, but that's what gentlemen need to do. We can see that there's also a large number of rejections, a large number of cases that have been in the investigation for years. This also draws attention to this report, and there is something that needs to be done. You have already made a proposal, and that is why I, here and here, and I call all of us here as a legislative body to vote, that is to say, that as soon as these changes happen, I say so much-needed changes in our material criminal legislation that are essentially essential and concerning the issues of our social life conditions. No doubt she has also benefited from a change in the protection of minors and is bearing witness to this report. These days, the law on criminal legal liability of legal persons has entered into force or entered into force. It is also a brand-new institute, but something that is inescapable in one energetic struggle of every country, particularly against corruption, and even organised crime, because we often see that individuals, all of the criminal groups, were very skillful to hide behind a legal person, who, by one outdated theory, had long prevailed in these areas of our own, who denied a legal person the possibility of her criminal and legal responsibility. The law has come into force these days, and then next year we will follow the effects of that law. It is also certain that he had his share here of the Law, the passed Witness Protection Act, which, in one way, motivates people to be in the help of seeking justice, to seek out the culprits in providing material clues, but also these subjective ones without whom the court simply cannot. And what is also very important and very current these days, the Law on the application of the Statute of the International Criminal Court for criminal offences against international war and humanitarian law was passed during the coalition government. He was brought in very quickly, we responded very adequately to the needs of the moment. It was not necessary to form some large task force. His author here is our professor Ivo Josipovic. He is a very high-quality law and based on this law here a few days ago a professional judicial council was formed in Split that personalised the responsibility of both the President of the Court, the Supreme Court, and so the Attorney General. So it was all a great instrumentation, which I say after less than a year, two gave such good results. I think in that direction, and we should go to the next year, so that even more, so we don't have a speed problem anymore, so we can talk about better quality. Furthermore, I can only mention, when the material law and amendments were passed, that's when the whole of Europe published in its daily papers that Croatia successfully completed its criminal-legal reform. Furthermore, I think it is very important to point out that the former authorities have started to take account, but it was only the beginning, which is why it is very fatal to stop at this point, as regards material conditions, which are still very difficult, but it has begun, starting to settle their very difficult material conditions, primarily to increase wages, equalising the salaries of state lawyers with the salaries of judges of the same rank, in line with not only the Council of Ministers' Council of Europe's directives, that these salaries are equal, but finally also to the new role given to the state's attorney, especially as regards civil matters which, following our new Law on State Attorney's Attorney's Office, have been joined, which I think was a very correct and necessary move at a given point. When the state didn't even know what property it had, and then how it would even protect it. The new role of the state's attorney's office is given, and this is too much of the role of the new Law on Procedural Procedure, which is precisely about this attempt to make what, i.e. to dissipate the judiciary as much as possible, to resolve disputes in a more peaceful manner, that the state's attorney's office is obliged to recognise the obvious claims. And that the claims, which apparently stem from inadequate management of the portfolio, or individual ministries. And what's particularly worrying is that the state is still a great litigator, that it's more and more sued than it is on the side where it appears in the role of the prosecutor, but we see reports that this situation has started to change, that it is becoming more and more active, and that in a small number of cases, it is being sued, and in any case it should be supported. And yes, in short, she also began to fill those frames. It's unfortunate to hear recently that the ministry has informed the state's attorney council that there is no means to fill the staff in the state's attorney's office. It's something that's seriously worrying, because during the coalition government, this trend has started and he can't stop if we want to have these results. And in order to have these results, it is a common concern and, above all, the responsibility of the judicial authority, the state's attorney's office, and when it comes to his part of the job, but certainly the legislative and executive authorities. However, the question remains, as is the Law on the State's Attorney's Office, which has been put into power, which is taking on this great responsibility for the work that is being done, and I think it is primarily the merit of the chief state attorney who has fully assumed that responsibility, but also the state's legal council for sanctioning those who are not up to this job, but also the responsibilities they receive in their ranks.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-14-0.u23203	Finish up, Madam Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-14-0.u23204	And I'm ending up, so it would be devastating not to worry about it anymore, not to take care of education, and not to take care of the youngest, as well as the trainees. The state's attorneys don't need twins, they need medals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-14-0.u23205	Thank you very much. In accordance with Article 223 of the Commissioner's inquiry that this item of the agenda has come to me at this time, I must say that this morning the work of the Parliament with a point of equal importance for the defence and defence situation in the Republic of Croatia which was long. We couldn't predict how many MPs would report. And I regret that this point came at five o'clock, a place earlier, but unfortunately there are no more important points, than the time of direct television broadcasts, but I think this is also the appropriate time to discuss this problem. On behalf of the HSS Club, Mr. Representative Josip Vresk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-14-0.u23206	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Chief State Attorney. And the Croatian Peasant Party Club will support this report. We believe that this is indeed one model report and that for the first time is a comprehensive display of all that information that the main state attorney must provide to the Croatian Parliament under the Law on State Law. With a few suggestions about things they write in this report, but also about things they don't write. In fact, it would be good, given that one ministry, the State's Attorney's Office and the judicial authority are making such reports on the basis of three different methodologies. When writing such reports, the Ministry of the Interior shall apply the methodology of criminal offences, the State's attorney shall apply the methodology of the perpetrator and the court's methodology of the case. And it is very difficult to systematize or systematically view 3 reports that are made entirely different methodologies. It's not your fault, but it's one suggestion that I think we should work on in the future. What is looking forward to in this report is that, I think the main state attorney can be praised, are two basic things on which the effectiveness of the work of the State's Attorney's Office, which is primarily the speed of solving cases and the number of liberating, i.e. refuting judgments, and it seems to me that according to this report there are really very, very few. Namely, another small suggestion regarding the very terms of parole. It's not good to write in a report like this whether there's one or the same number of parolees. This is part of the judicial authority and part of the criminal policy that the Supreme Court must level, on the basis of the law and the state's attorney may be satisfied or dissatisfied with the number of conditional convictions, but it is as it is and it is the problem of the judicial authority. What's worrying is that it's still an uneven burden on the state's attorney's office, above all, the municipal state's attorney's office, regardless of the redistribution of the case, and I think it might be necessary in some foreseeable future to intervene in the law and see what state's attorneys are and how they are burdened, what projections, how they will be burdened and what they do there. What may be more important, and this is a change in the very law of criminal law that is not directly related to this report, but it is certain that it affects it, or affects the overall trend of growth or the decline of crime and all forms of crime. In fact, the last amendments to the Penal Code were accepted by the so-called. cumenical law, writing down, which was your duty, of course. However, I also warned that it would be good to finally pass a new Penal Code, and now I will only tell you on one example why it is very important. If you see information on how many criminal charges are still rejected, and I unfortunately don't have any data on statistics from the State's Attorney's Office as many false criminal charges. In fact, you are ruled in judicial circles by one of these evil sentences, that often lately criminal charges are used as a regular legal remedy in litigation procedures, in a way that is obstructed by itself, or by litigation procedures in which I am obstructed by litigation. So I'd be interested in the data on how many false charges there were. I would be more interested in whether there are at all or in any judgments in criminal proceedings for those offences. It is evident, therefore, that only such a setting of a criminal act of false reporting as we now have in the Penal Code is not good, that it must be intervened there that on the one hand we must maximumly protect the one who reports and severely punish the one who falsely reports. The percentage, as stated by the number of rejected criminal charges, certainly suggests that there is also a good part of those reports which may not be falsely reported, which cannot be subject to this criminal act, but which, if otherwise formulated, would surely fall under the criminal act. What may have to be noted is the work of the civil-government department in two parts of what I want to point out. We all know that an extremely large number of cases that must be handled by this civil-government department, we know in how many cases the Republic of Croatia has been sued in such or such types of disputes. First of all, I mean litigation, I think it's the biggest part of the work dispute, if I'm not wrong, or labour rights. And what I often do, and I'm afraid I'm right, state attorneys or deputy state attorneys who solve these cases are simply afraid for these or those reasons to access a settlement. No matter what we've recently reduced the legally tight interest rate, there's no more so-called. the application of a comfortable interest rate, however, is still quite large, burdening the state budget and it is not clear why in these cases when it is apparent that the dispute will not be concluded. It eskiates interest in this way, the total amount is reduced and the state budget is spending less and less money, if of course accessing it. What I'm trying to say as a second thing, in the work of this department is increased work on the subjects of so-called. ZK arrangements or what is called land-booking where the Republic of Croatia owns the property. I do not think that this situation is satisfactory, even though the situation is otherwise in our land books, that the state's attorney's office would have to engage more in order to finally settle the property of the Republic of Croatia, i.e. real estate and finally know what is the owner of the Republic of Croatia. I don't think that's a good condition. And in the end, I want to say one thing that's been going on for many years, and it's about the State Audit. I do not understand why and why, whether it is the wish of the main state auditor, or simply a legal procedure that is not good, that the chief state auditor cannot file criminal charges alone. I don't know why, why and why it is simply waiting for a report to be drawn up, which is then sent to the State's Attorney's office and which, after reading such a comprehensive report, must decide whether or not to initiate criminal proceedings in some cases. Simply, according to the Criminal Procedure Act, the Chief State Auditor must not or must not, but must initiate criminal proceedings, always report someone when there is a reasonable suspicion that a criminal offence has been committed which is being prosecuted under official duty. Would it be enough to warn the chief state auditor of that fact or make some kind of decision, I don't know. Right now, that's not even the point of the problem, but it's also the fact that in this way it's just a waste of the time that applies to old age, it's unnecessary to wait, and there's really no reason to do that. That is, the fact that there is a legal obligation under the special law, so the Criminal Procedure Act, that the Chief State Auditor is doing so. It would be those suggestions that I think would be good if they were accepted by the attorney general, those of course relating to his work, that is, the methodology of work. And, of course, suggestions to the government that would be good to do with what I have to do over and over again. We have a new law on criminal proceedings, but we still have a law on criminal proceedings that is not adequate, which is not good, which allows long-term proceedings, which does not protect the procedural rights of participants in criminal proceedings as should be protected. And I think it would be right, that it would be time to finally see a new proposal for a new Criminal Procedure Act, even though it's a novelty, it's still not good. Namely, the fact that the investigation was conducted in all 8% of cases is not in itself enough. The investigation does not just mean that the process is accelerated if it is conducted in a small number of cases. During the course of the investigation, time is leaking, time is running out, and I think the matter is much more complex and that this law cannot really survive for long. It would be a good idea, I repeat, for the government to submit as soon as possible a proposal for a new Code of Criminal Procedure, the more I know that this Law has been working for about two years, I think it was something to do, I think it's time for that to happen. I repeat once again, the Croatian Peasant Party Club will support this report, this is a good report and I hope these suggestions will be accepted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-14-0.u23207	Thank you. Club of HNS PGS, respected representative Nikola Vuljanić, please welcome.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-14-0.u23208	Thank you, Mr. President, Mr. State Attorney, colleagues and colleagues. It's been a pleasure to get this kind of report in my hands for the first time since I've been here, it's a methodologically well-tapped material, a serious approach, so if you want graphically prepared material, it's very easy to figure out from the beginning where the content with the clear points where it's being processed, to the footnote and similar details. Obviously, access to this report is significantly different from most of the other reports we have received here. Obviously, the report is so comprehensive that even Mr. State's Attorney failed to present it fully to us within the deadline, so I'm not going to try that, I'm going to look back on a few details, or a few aspects of that report that I find interesting, number two not quite clear, perhaps a few more words should be said about them, and number three, in relation to which some suggestions can be given for the possible improvement of the situation next year. The initial report discusses an increase in crime and this increase of 3% compared to 2002. However, there should be two things in mind, it is not directly about the increase in the crimes committed, it is about the increase in the registered crimes of 3%, and on the other hand the environment should also be taken into account politically and geographically in which Croatia is located and look at the fact that the number of crimes reported in Croatia is about half and even more than in neighbouring countries. Whether it's a result of a really less level of crime or it's the result of a lower level of application, it's up to us to evaluate. According to the statistics we've received here, there's an extremely small number of reports that have not been resolved in law enforcement and there's a trend of decline obvious. It seems to me 1.9% or so to a small number, I wonder if these 1.9% of reports include those that were received in the attorney's office, for example from anonymous sources, and on which is the official note that not enough facts have been established that would guarantee the successful completion of the procedure. I suppose such cases in the law firm still have a certain number, whether they're in these 1.9% or not in the statistics. It's commendable to be almost incredibly up-to-date, the information given by Mr. State's Attorney says there are 10 days of unsolved cases in the state's attorney's office. So if 10 days didn't come new applications in 10 days, the state's attorney's office would be practically out of a job. And the deadline for resolving the application is 3 to 4 months, which is extremely fast and significantly different from the situation in the judicial system. A high percentage of rejections 35.5, 35.6% may mean two things, firstly that someone in the previous procedure has not seriously done their job, if it is not true another possibility is that the attorney's office is very serious about its work and respects the letter and the spirit of the law. Maybe Mr. State's Attorney could tell us a little bit more about it. It is also commendable to reduce the number of suspension decisions taken by courts. Most of the time, I'm guessing it's outdated, so if that's how the numbers are still talking about three thousand 183 stops, I'm curious to know which part of these suspensions are really outdated and why so many of them are still so large. As far as sanctions are concerned, Mr. State's attorney has expressed some dissatisfaction with the terms and conditions of these other sanctions, but the fact is that there is also a trend in all the countries of Europe that we want to draw close to and adapt that this trend is aimed at conditional sanctions, especially where it is the first meeting of a person with a legislative apparatus in the field. The attorney's office rarely complains, should explain why. Is it a fact that stems from well-formed judgments so the state's attorney's office doesn't actually have a reason to complain, or it's about the state's attorney's office being teamed up, that there's no time and money missing, so the state's attorney doesn't actually complain where it would be perfectly justified and normal. I think you should say something about criminal acts concerning drug abuse. It's interesting that 72.7% of the works in that group are related to drug possession, to assume that the majority of those who owned intoxicating drugs had easier intoxicating drugs. It is obvious that no matter what political attitudes are in some foreseeable future, the system will have to modify and possess easier drugs than a criminal offense. The situation, of course, is reversed with heavy drugs, and here today in the media we could see that almost a hundred people died most often because of an overdose in the last year. That figure will certainly be exceeded this year, so the possession of heavy drugs should be clearly and more sanctioned. According to Mr. State's Attorney's report, there has been a significant drop in the number of applications for criminal offences of economic crime. It would be interesting to see the relationship between solved and unsolved cases only on this part of the State's Attorney's Office's work. and perhaps do a little more detailed analysis of the reasons why the criminalities of economic, the number of criminal parts of economic crime in Croatia are shrinking. The general impression that a person can gain from the media, which can come from talking to neighbors and friends, is not so. Finally, each of us knows a few examples. But Mr. State's Attorney as well as has more details, so it would be, it would seem to me interesting to find out about it. Amazingly few applications for bribery only 43 applications in the Republic of Croatia and receiving bribes only 65 applications in 2003. These two figures, so a total of 108 people who are accused of this criminal act, say something completely different than the place of the Republic of Croatia on the ranking list of countries that are, let's say, threatened by bribery. In the body, in part of the civil proceedings, these two figures are interesting. The state sues for 2.5 billion kuna. And the state has been sued for about 8.5 billion kuna. It is evident that the state can find itself in a rather strange situation, if all these lawsuits are or most of these lawsuits are accepted, and this is most often about work disputes, about K15, about Santa Clauses and similar, or cancellations, subsequent salaries, that is, about similar problems. Already today, with one agreement reached with the civil servants' union, i.e. the union enlightens some of the educational institutions in Croatia have found a blocked account. Because the deal was signed in court, the search engines sat down on the school's giro-accounts, schools just can't work. Of course, the ministry has taken over the obligation of the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports to refund that money to schools. But it's about refunding something the school has to pay from unknown sources. I suppose other state institutions are either located or will be in such a situation very soon. In any event, in order to keep these 8.5 billion to 8.5 billion, in order not to increase to 10, 12 or 15, or possibly to reduce to one figure that the budget will be able to bear, it would be necessary to establish the obligation of the state authorities to make a settlement wherever it is to give reasonable doubt that this dispute will be lost. On page 42 of the report, it is said that it is illogical for the State Audit Office to file reports and what the State Audit Office has established, not to repeat the fact that it is illogical that the State Auditor is unable to file a criminal report, but is giving the subject to the State Attorney's Office which, from the outset, has to go through a whole bunch of meters and meters of paper, to analyse, to look for the elements to be able to file a criminal complaint, which has already been done by one state audit. But aside from that. I find it a bit of a strange sentence, it showed that those irregularities established by the State audit were not directly damaged by the property of the Republic of Croatia, but were damaged by the Croatian Privatisation Fund. So whose is he? It seemed to me to be the Croatian Privatisation Fund. On page 43, there is talk of bankruptcy and the state's attorney estimates that bankruptcy proceedings are being initiated late after the long-term blockade of the gyro-accounts, etc. I absolutely agree with that, it's definitely true, dozens of cases I know exactly where it was done. But I don't know why. There is a clear legal obligation to initiate bankruptcy within a certain period after so long and so long the company's account has been blocked. The 44th page also discusses work disputes that the State has been sued for. So it's 17,000 500 cases, where the state is sued, or 99.84% of labour disputes, it's for the concerned. Once again, these bills will come for payment, they will come for payment this year. We'll talk about these accounts here very surprised, and it's all actually already here. Thanks again for this good report. I hope we get such a good report next year. And I hope we get answers to these questions I asked. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-14-0.u23209	Thank you very much. Club of HSP MPs, respected representative Miroslav Rožić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-14-0.u23210	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. State's Attorney. This annual report, as the name itself says, is actually one report that the State's Attorney's Office delivers each year to the Croatian Parliament. And I have to say right away at first that I don't envy the attorney general on this mission, because actually, the result of the work of the state's attorney is actually keeping a picture of our judiciary as a whole, and that's not envious. In fact, this year this report, as every year, could be found by a common denominator for both the previous and this, and possibly the future, if this invisible situation in the Croatian judiciary does not change much more. And that is, this common denominator is that this report shows that, as the State's Attorney's Office is extremely effective, it is only for ordinary citizens and for insignificant criminal acts in which the process of proof is very simple. However, if the process of proof is more complex or is not a simple form of criminality, it is obvious that the State's Attorney's Office is not able to carry out its tasks and tasks by a certain law. Namely, the Croatian public faces numerous scandals and consequences every day resulting from one or more criminal acts. After all, it is only enough to open a print in which there are simply a number of cases that require criminal processing of the actions written, or those who write it. You can still see that from this report. On behalf of the HSS Club, Col. Vresk finished or stopped with the assessment of this report, saying of the reports carried out by the audits. I will continue, on behalf of the HSP Club, where he has stopped or started if you want to, so it is indeed the best example seen in this report and that part of the report that speaks of the reports carried out by the conversion and privatisation audits and the same is true for the reports of budgetary users who are publicly available and in which numerous punishable actions are mentioned. Not only are a number of illegals but also criminal proceedings of a number of persons listed, but the effectiveness of the State's Attorney's Office was indeed weak. However, there is a need to recognize works that are obsolete, there are actually immoral actions that are not punishable that people often do not know the difference but there is still a whole series of illegal and punitive acts of nature that are not and clearly not intending to process. For example, the conversion of unfounded claims by some banks into company roles in million amounts, the sale of unrated real estate and the entry of real estate into a land book without any legal basis, the conclusion of harmful contracts, the termination of contracts by competent authorities with privileged buyers who took over shares, ruined the company without paying a tenth of the value of the shares purchased. Where are the criminal charges, where are the proceedings on these matters? The citizen-legal aspect of the audit reports The State Attorney's Office is trying to bypass us by quoting that the above irregularities are not directly damaged property of the Republic of Croatia but are damaged to imagine the Croatian Privatisation Fund or shareholders of a particular company and that there was therefore no basis for taking legal action to protect the property of the Republic of Croatia. That's on page 42 of this report. It seems the famous one, at least as famous as her maker Maxima, that money does not take possession and quite new meanings. What the State Attorney's Office did in cases where the priceless assets of former companies, i.e. the property of the Republic of Croatia, were sold and the registration of land books was yet to take place. This is about the case as if two people contract to purchase Jelačić's salary or, for example, Diocletian's palace and then the buyer manages to sign up for land books as the owner of that space. We have a special commission for that. That the State Attorney's Office does not fully fulfil its role as defined in the Constitution, the Criminal Law and the Law on Attorneyship, but that it is often in the service of day-to-day political interests to prove this report in the section relating to data on civil and legal labour disputes on page 44 and data on criminal acts against freedom and the rights of man and citizen on page 15. It is evident from these data that the State Attorney's Office in a certain way "protect" the perpetrators of criminal offences and the structure of the government at the expense of citizens and the Republic of Croatia. It is also evident that the State Attorney's Office understands its double and inappropriate role in such cases, so it stresses several times through the report the need for this issue to be settled. Namely, the State Attorney's Office represents the Republic of Croatia in civil and legal disputes which has been sued in 17,000 503 cases for violation of public service employees' rights. The state's attorney's office in this report points to and repeats for many years that the courts have taken a unique position and that it is pointless to delay the litigation process because the accused Republic of Croatia is losing its disputes in these disputes. So it's obvious that the rights of public service employees have been violated. Who is the perpetrator of these violations, and why does the State's Attorney's Office, given its role and the task set out in the law, not pursue a criminal prosecution against those persons who have committed this violation of the rights of public employees and thus damaged not only those civil servants but also the Republic of Croatia in the amount of ten billion kuna? The existence of 17 thousand 503 litigation cases necessarily and logically requires the State's Attorney's Office, its criminal justice department, and the raising of a series of indictments against the responsible persons and for criminal offences in the head of criminal offences against the freedom and rights of man and citizen, and in particular for acts of violation of the equality of citizens of Article 106. Article 127 of the Penal Code, abuse and exercise of service and public authority The Penal Code and, in particular, the infringement of labour rights and other labour rights, Article 114. Penalty law. Here I will mention only Mrs Vesna Balenović's case, which has to this day been unresolved. This is how we have a situation where de facto the State Attorney's Office does not represent the interests of the Republic of Croatia but rather the interests of some of the past officials of the Republic of Croatia who committed some crimes several years ago, damaged some employees and now the Republic of Croatia must pay huge damages of several billion kunas. Therefore, they have damaged the Republic of Croatia and the State's Attorney's Office must go towards such not only with criminal persecution but also with a request for regression. On the other hand, criminal proceedings against persons who place a license plate on their unregistered iron from their registered semi-regular fiche on their unregistered iron to get out of their village next door is effective. As well as against citizens who have accidentally or unwittingly committed some crime and who have not treated premeditated as a number of participants in car accidents. The State's Attorney's Office shows us the currentity of so long ago saying that it's the right thing to do as a spider and that only the smallest creatures are caught in it until the big beasts are no problem. Otherwise, this saying of law as a spider best depicts the Croatian criminal and legal system, it is actually attributed to Thessalonica, who lived in the 7th century B.C. and in the meantime for democratic systems, the saying became completely inappropriate. Unfortunately, it's still up to us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-14-0.u23211	Please, my dear colleague. It's up to the esteemed fellow Pupovac on behalf of the SDSS Club. Here you go, buddy!
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-14-0.u23212	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! Those who say it is not only good for this report to be found in front of MPs but also consider it solidly done certainly to speak correctly. And as far as the SDSS Club is concerned, not only on the basis of facts, but on the basis of the intensities that come from this report, we will certainly support this report with a number of remarks. Since he was under discussion on the Committee on Human Rights and Rights of the National Communities, I would not like to repeat it because I assume the Deputy State Attorney has transferred much of what he considered to be relevant both to the State's attorney and to his college. I would like to say to the next Mr. State Attorney, colleagues and colleagues here that Croatia is one of the countries with the lowest crime rate and that is statistically correct. However, it is doubtless true that our citizens do not have a sense of security for this statistic. And if we contact and as agents in this House we must do so necessarily if we listen to what our people say and what our people are saying, and we must do so necessarily, then we must hear that people are growing a sense of uncertainty. A recent conversation with a respected lawyer, I asked him what he thought about why I was like that. He said, you know, the figures presented in the state's attorney's report are correct. Croatia is one of the safest countries not only in the region but also in Europe. But it's also true that there is an increased sense of uncertainty. Whether it's media that present on a dramatic and drastic example crimes, especially acts of blood-delict, or criminal activity, especially in certain areas where people are sensitive to the violation of the law. Or not something else, I can't judge right now. But one thing seems to me to be a relevant state attorney's office as an instance from which the rule of law mechanism begins to act, from which the judicial mechanism is no doubt in itself not enough and to do what other mechanisms of the state do not do. So if the police don't do their part of the job. e.g. Here are the drug dealers mentioned and the drug problem, which is obviously a serious problem. In the environments in which it was never a problem in Croatia. In rural areas in the hinterland of Zadar was never a drug problem. And today it is. Not to name places of honor where honest people live so they don't get marks they shouldn't get. And then the experience of people in law practice not the state's attorney's office, but legal practices are next. Small street dealers are monitored for 6 months, neither in the apartment nor in any other place finds anything from drugs or anything that could refer to widespread drug activity except in the pocket or in the hand. So if the police follow someone for six months it's not possible that they can't determine how to distribute such intoxicating agents from hand to hand or otherwise. Therefore, such people do, but those who possess it who earn it, who actually pose a danger, they do not. It's similar with crimes of murder, robbery and the like. And in this respect, when we are discussing this report today, it is absolutely certain that it is necessary to bear in mind that without the work of other state authorities and not only these first instance within the judicial system, what the State's attorney and other authorities actually have to do will not be possible. Another thing I'd like to say, for a number of reasons and these general and special reasons, the State's Attorney's Office is under a special bang of international communities and, of course, with our glass. And it is absolutely certain that what we are making more difficult by reforming the judiciary, or so some others think it would be better to say by building up, improving, or improving the situation within the judiciary that it is one of the things that actually strengthens credibility on one side of the judicial institutions towards the citizens themselves and citizens towards them. And our country's credibility to the outside. And since this is exactly what this is about, therefore, strengthening credibility as a presumption of the internal legal certainty of every human, every citizen, and at the same time credibility towards those who are our partners and with whom we are going to share tomorrow practically the same family house, I think of the European Union, it seems necessary to do everything possible to strengthen this credibility with the State's Attorney's office and then to continue. Recently we were able to read Croatia has over a million and some unsolved cases on the judiciary, a million and 400 thousand or how many. And I've rarely heard how that's the problem, so we're just trying to stop people from doing it. And then a few days ago, we are based on comparative research that Croatia is ahead of both France and Germany and the Netherlands with regard to the number of judges. Croatia has seven times as many judges as France. And France has 70 million inhabitants. And we're four and a half. According to that, I don't speak Holland or any other country. What's the problem with motivation, blockage, people who work in the judiciary, or simply the fact that they don't know where to start. Which of these millions and 400 cases should begin to solve. Or these cases are such that people don't really know what to do with them. Or it is simply a necessary action in which these people would be mobilized and made a program of how these cases may actually be resolved. Who have accumulated for many years for various reasons. Now let me look back on one part that is of course important and that you yourself spoke about in your report. And in his speech, and that's the issue of trial for the most serious crimes, these are crimes of war crime. What makes this attorneyship, what this government does in this regard in terms of effort, is quite safe to welcome. But there's a lot left to do. And I'm going to appeal to this very moment of credibility. Who would define by the following principle, judge all who should and in this respect cooperate with all countries and entities that can help and not judge anyone who is not worthy of it. I'm afraid over the past few years it wasn't a practice. The previous government and this government wanted to change that state and they took certain steps, made some progress. But there is an apparent inconsistency. Mr. State Attorney, gentlemen, I have here a letter from the Justice Minister of 97th year, Mr. Šeparović, in which the list of persons with then two county courts located in Osijek is both at the time when 150 persons covered by criminal proceedings or tried for war crimes in the Croatian Podunov area are listed. That was 97. I'm not going to say that for a year, the number was changed and that it was smaller than that. In this report that you have this number of those covered by the war crimes proceedings is for the County Court in Osijek 780, the 489 Vukovar. I wish I knew how it happened. Now, just give me a few examples. And please don't really understand me the way I don't think or intend or feel like talking. First, one person in our public and by international visitors and international forums is often mentioned in recent days. I belong to those who feel that the good part of it is not in our hands, the good part of it is not in our hands. I don't know when, and I don't know what moment, but something is in our hands. The issue of our internal credibility and our internal conduct is in our hands. The ability to do it ourselves where we should do it, in cases where we have to do it, is in our hands. For that we really need only our inner energy in this regard. Then my opinion is that one man's question will be less important than it is right now. If I understand things correctly. If you'll excuse me, just one example. Mrs. Vera Solar of Sisak, 91, has been waiting to address the question of her daughter's murder. To date, despite a series of efforts made by the ministry at the time, so from 91s and 92s and home affairs and others, unfortunately to this day the matter has not been done. Mrs. Ivanka Savic was illegally convicted in Vukovar because she was in Serbian captivity together with 120, 160 others, she is a Serbian herself. Later when she was exchanged, she was accused of showing off a person whose identity we don't know. We don't know if it's a name, whether it's a last name, whether it's a nickname in three versions. And there's no person on the missing list either. Why? The word is a person, okay, years are no limit in this regard, but 71 years of evidence, procedures, and on the other hand, we have a case in Zadar in 91 years, detained persons of Serbian nationality at the Velimir Scorpik school in nearby villages outside the war area, a person armed with a gun enters, with the permission of police, military police and the National Guard Assembly, as the police report says. After a short time, he kills a gun on the scene of two men, a severe wound to the third person who dies in the hospital. Is that person available today, Mr. State's Attorney? I don't need to ask you that, because it's stopped being in your jurisdiction a long time ago, but it is in the jurisdiction of our judiciary. And it is a matter of credibility of our judiciary and it is a question of general security for people, now not those who are these or those nationalities, but everyone who lives in that area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-14-0.u23213	Thank you, dear fellow Pupovac. Correction of the incorrect quote, my colleague Mlinarić, please be my guest.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-14-0.u23214	Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues. Mr. Pupovac here said that about 150 people were convicted for the Podunavlje. To Podunavlje, no one has been convicted of Vukovar. Several petty criminals were convicted, but no one was convicted of war crimes in Vukovar. I wonder who killed 2,500 people in Vukovar who were alive and healthy before the war, and 600 people only after the war were killed the last three days. So then I wonder if Mrs. Ivanka Savic was telling her neighbors and our defenders who she only saw on the street, and those who fed her, she was saying, and those people were disappearing overnight, so here's just so much thanks.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-14-0.u23215	We're continuing the debate. On behalf of the HDZ Club, dear colleague Bosnjakovic. My colleagues and colleagues. The time has expired for individual hearings. Here you go, pal Bosnjakovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-14-0.u23216	Mr. Vice President, Mr. State Attorney, I'm not going to discuss individual cases like this, because here as many of us as there are in the assembly, I think each of us could take out a few individual things and actually ask the state's attorney if it's settled, at what stage or not. I think that these global data in this report give hope and provide a basis in fact that many things in our judiciary and even in this segment will be very successful and very correctly solved and finally and reports by international bodies are actually talking about how things are getting better with us and that and in the judiciary that really is one of our painful and difficult problems things are going to get better. As far as this report is concerned, we have heard really very inviting assessments so far, because all these statistics that are mentioned in the report are truly commendable and when we see how many criminal reports have arrived during the year, that only 1.8 remain unsolved, it is indeed commendable. We have also heard the fact that this is partly due to amendments to the Penal Code, the Code of Criminal Procedure adopted in the past term, which is also true, because the state's attorneys have received some more effective powers, but in any case it must be said that this is also the consequence of a different organisation of work within the state's attorney's office in the last two years, which is that, in fact, from those overloaded lawyers who have had a large number of cases that have been deployed to those lawyers who have had fewer and the reports show that such work in 2 years, the backlogs have been cleaned up and this gives hope, because the same principle and the same method is now in force and in our courts, and in fact, much better things are happening there. This report has not only done very well in statistical terms all the segments needed, but it also has a special quality, because it offers certain solutions and in any case it is indeed to be commended, because it is necessary to read, in particular, the state lawyer has made certain proposals regarding changes to certain proposals regarding changes to the bankruptcy law, because in the bankruptcy process we have important problems, and the Republic of Croatia as a believer who performs in bankruptcy proceedings has suffered great damages, and indeed we have a number of suggestions here. But I still have to say, despite being this good and brilliant, I'd say, in the report, I don't think we have any reason to be pleased here. And why is that? That applies exclusively to that civil, that litigious part of this report. In that part of the Report, we see exactly what the responsibility of the Republic of Croatia is. We see that there are 32,000 litigation cases in which the Republic of Croatia is a defendant. The defendant for the value of the claim totals more than 8 billion kuna, no interest, no expense. Let's add to that interest, add to that cost, we'll get to the amount of 12 and more billions of kunas. And that, in my opinion, is the most humble fact of this report. In 2003 alone, 16 and several thousand new cases came in 2003 alone where the Republic of Croatia was sued for the total value of the claim of about 2 billion and 600 thousand kuna. Only in one year. These are data that are truly worrying. I agree, the state's attorney has offered good suggestions here. Comrade Vresk spoke here and said that the state's attorney should have greater independence in making deals in these cases. That's exactly what we're proposing here, but in order to, you know, make a deal, it's necessary to secure the money. Because if you make a deal, he won't make a deal in which the Republic of Croatia will commit to paying him the amount it owes him in 20 years. So the money needs to be available to make deals. And so, this is one fact that is really, really painful and in this fact, our government in these four years is really going to have to make a real hard effort because on the one hand, prosecutors are asking us for 8 billion, 8 and a half billion without interest, at no cost. And on the other hand, we, according to the defendants, are looking at our debtors for 2 and a half billion that we will very hard to charge because de facto we in these proceedings have defendants who are not liquid, who have no money and we're going to get very little money. And those who sue the Republic of Croatia will be charged to you. You'll be charged. So on that side, I must express my satisfaction for this prepared and analytically processed report, for the quality and correct proposals that have been made here. However, I have to express my real concern about this debt, that we talked to each other last night about the budget deficit, we talked about a big debt state. However, we must be aware of the fact that we are 14 to 15 in this respect, perhaps billions of kunas. In 2003 alone, 2 billion and 60 million were sued. If we go by logic, if that same year is all sad and that same year it could all come on the charge. It's already a significant blow to our budget. And therefore, we will, of course, take the report into consideration, support it, but this is really a cause for concern. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-14-0.u23217	Thank you very much. We have another club. I suggest we get this over with. Here you go, pal Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-14-0.u23218	The IDS Club is looking for a break. I beg you, I have asked you to allow me tomorrow morning. I've really got some things to do tonight. ... No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] There's no TV at 9:00 anyway. What now? ... I know I don't, but I have other obligations not to wait half an hour. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-14-0.u23219	Please, Comrade Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-14-0.u23220	What about a break? Well, don't be like you now, Mr. Arlovich, like Mr. Shakespeare.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-14-0.u23221	But, colleague Cain, you said you were looking for a break because, please, that's all you asked for is a break as you say you have one private obligation. So how am I gonna give you a break from the club for a private commitment?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-14-0.u23222	No, we don't. It's completely irrelevant now. ... [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-14-0.u23223	Please, Comrade Cain, be my guest for the pay phone. Please don't make me use the bell. Here you go, buddy Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-14-0.u23224	Mr. Vice President, the esteemed state's attorney, the esteemed gentlemen's attorneys. It doesn't matter, but. In 2003, 92 thousand 263 criminal charges were received. In 2003, and you say "Iade" anyway, against known and unknown perpetrators. If that means adding these 111 thousand 633 items that were received by the civil-government department in 2003, it turns out that 70 state attorneys, 477 their deputies, 64 advisors, 77 trainees and 641 employees really have something to do. But later on. What amazes me, Mr. State's Attorney, is this chart on page 3 on criminal charges on 100,000 residents. And just so that man doesn't believe his eyes. Most of the crimes, not most, are convincingly the most in Istria. Four thousand and 67. Then, 4000 67. Then the Primorje-Gorski County is 2 thousand 729, after which Zagreb. So it turns out that there's the most crime in this area of economic development. Istress by intellectual capital comes first. In Croatia, after exporting the population to the first place. In Croatia, there is only one covered import-export. It has the slightest unemployment, gross social product we have slightly smaller than Zagreb, but it is logical that all budgetary parafiscal funds, bank headquarters, etc. are concentrated here. So where it works, where the system is as stable as it is, arranged, this report says there are problems, but there are problems in those parts of the Republic of Croatia where everything is blocked, as if there are no problems. Someone commenting on it in a way that those who want to work, that's not possible, and where nothing happens, where you live exclusively from a budget, exclusively from a government salary, means, from a salary in the police, military, customs, administration, etc., there's no stress. Why am I saying that? So in Croatia, we have an average of 100 thousand people, on average, a thousand 977 crimes, and then I quote, "What is favourable compared to some of the neighbouring European countries," a quote said, and in Istria, we have 4 thousand 67 crimes. So Istria has almost two and a half times more crimes than the rest of the Republic of Croatia. The 4000 67 crimes are more than in Slovenia. 3 thousand 869, more than in Italy 3 thousand 865. True, in Austria, we have as many as 7 thousand 274 crimes per 100,000 inhabitants, but I have the impression that I'm being cynical, that in a year, two, and that's where we're going to catch up. I do not agree that these 4000 67 crimes on the 100 thousand population in Istria are described here as the result of transit crime or the high concentration of people in the season, but something else. Because what to say for one, let's say, Slavonic Ship, where every so many people lose their heads, and they're convincingly back to starting those statistics. So, in order to be able to say more about these figures, we need to make it clear in this report that those crimes are being charged with, in some county, and then we would find it much clearer. Far from having a problem in Istria, but it is the county that leads this list where it must be the most peaceful living in Croatia, and I find it hard to believe. But for some actions, it needs to be persistent. We see that in drugs, in the first place Zagreb, Split, Rijeka, Pula. It is realistic that the police are doing well, however, I agree with the big deal. What's even more interesting is that there are more assets in young people than those involved in drugs. USKOK made 470 applications in 2003. Reports have been dropped in 35.6 cases, but so is 35.2% in other jurisdictions. However, it would be good to have a conversation here in some more exposed cases, one of these is certainly the case of Granic, who ended up with a complete fiasco, more precisely with a debacle and which led significantly to confidence in some institutions. When I talk about crimes against humanity, there is one element missing, nationality. Why am I saying that? To avoid criticism that only one Serb nationality is being tried. Mr. Pupovac said something about 170, so then about 1100 people, which means I didn't quite figure out who was there, but that detail should be listed. Certainly the war was waged in Croatia, there was a riot but the principle that war crimes cannot be committed in defence of the country does not go to some foreign forums. Why do I mention that, because we would all like to get rid of the burden of the Hague Court and that the country is really committed to some life issues even if some of this chapter in that period were masters of life and death. So we're talking about 1440 charges, 579 convictions, lacks a claim of nationality. There's a war crime mentioned in this II report. The World War, the Vienna Jewish Centre says that Croatia is not trying but when we have a civil war in our space and when everything was not as black as it was in the 41st-45th period, I'm afraid it could go in the direction of equalising the guilt of Partisan and those Ustasha parts. I'm talking clearly about the civil war I said from 41st to 45th plus the occupation of Italians, Germans, etc. However, I hope that this will not happen because it would be historic untrue and it is good to stop threatening some NOB participants with criminal persecution, at least I have the impression that it has stopped because sometimes some exhumation in Chicago should be done, but let us now, every war of accidents. I'm not saying that in the course of now Italian elections, but I'm saying that now in the course of Italian elections, we don't give cause for some of our own actions and that we don't start arguing about the past as the Slovenians without due regard for common sense when those four settlements are near Buja. That's why I mentioned these crimes from II. The World War I that's on page 17 of this report. The number of economic crime declines from 12%, from 3274 2002 to 2871 criminal offenses from 2003 means the process of reviewing conversion has been completed, the revision has not found anything like that, everything has been beatified, finally since that period 92, 93 years passed means more than 10 years old and what now to say who has in this country, who's got what he's got, who's gotten his hands on, who's bailing, would say our Royce and these processes of to God's audits are showing I'd say cat in a bag. Clearly, it is not only now because of some economic crime. For certain behaviors, a person must also have a lot of understanding because the hardest thing to do today in this country is to work. For one who does society has no understanding, for all else absolutely that, for the union, NGOs or these or those that do, but for those people who fight to survive jobs in this country there is no understanding. First of all, I think of craftsmen here as small entrepreneurs. Instead of making their business trip easier, these small business entities are often hit. The large ones are protected on the other hand because they need help, whether Vartex, Željezara, Lenac, etc., inter alia. The emphasis here means abuse of economic crime. However, you can also report someone has spoken before but the courts are clearly working slowly. There are also the most prominent items that say that these works were solved in 2001 by 69, 2002. 100, 2003. 113. So this says that those who have managed you are able to provide yourself with the best that will tell the most expensive protection and the poor as Mr. Rozic would say full of statistics. So, since the 2871 applications, we have 113 convictions in the first degree, it's already saying that there is a logical need for maximum caution because such actions can also endanger a legal person. It is even more delicate in the work against official duty than 3534 applications 1426 applications have been rejected but there you may have been in the 1426 application of persons, people, permanently perhaps 1426 persons buried if they appeared in the media on the first page and later that application was rejected. Even here, I don't think so much of law enforcement as of those people who reported those cases. 48 people were sentenced to prison. What's most interesting about that they all talked about, the state has been sued for 8.5 billion kuna, the state has sued others for 2.5 billion kuna, a total of 11.1 billion kuna, it would be interesting to see the state's success, saying that this success is about 50%, which means that we'll have to find in the budget if we haven't already, about 4 billion kuna on that basis, which is mainly due to the aforementioned work disputes. Let's remember the convictions of those officers who were able to prove that they were against the collective agreement. If someone did it on the other side of the local level, he'd have had a bad time. Within 48 hours, the State-level jump would have come to no one at all. But do you manage to get 50% of these disputes. On page 37, we're talking about 18.5% that could mean that this country will have to secure 6 billion and not like I said 4 billion kuna on that basis, but the point is why the state is clearly bringing it into this situation. Probably because of the rights that we are voting above the country's budgetary opportunities, which clearly cannot be provided to citizens or employees either. I know it's hard to say the budget simply can't do it obviously but it will have to respect the court's authority sooner or later and the tight interest is that 15%. However, it is also necessary to be responsible when in opposition and when in power and it is not clear that everything is simply promised because much cannot be done later. That promise, and then it's my fault that there's no Mr. Shex here he called it in Free Dalmatia a structural mistake because the position in the opposition is different from that in power. That's true, but there are too many of those promises that "turn into one structural mistake". and, for the end of the day, the attorney's office is representing the state abroad. The answer here is what is with the Croatian savings in front of the Ljubljanska banka or now the new Ljubljanska banka anyway. There's a reference to the succession. And the truth is that 115 thousand Croatian citizens were eyelessly stolen from that bank or state anyway. These 115 thousand citizens of the Republic of Croatia who have money in the Ljubljanska Banka as if it were forgotten, and we at the IDS Club are calling on the lawyer to talk about them too. and the latest damage caused by terrorist acts. A woman recently spoke to me through a consulate in Koper, for damage to her home in Gospić, which was mined out of pure peace in the year 91. They were not even participants in the rebellion, they were Slovenian citizens, they lived there in Cyprus in Slovenia all the time, they worked in Slovenia, and yet their house was torn down. How can I get on the list of renovations, money, I don't know what, I might hand you this case tomorrow? As for the report itself, the IDS will clearly accept it, but we are looking for concrete answers to how damage will be paid based on work disputes, based on this Ljubljanska banka, and finally damage due to these acts, such as for this lady from Gospić or Koper, all the same. It is not a questionable report that needs to be taken into account and which is logically to be accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-14-0.u23225	Before we move on to correcting incorrect allegations. I have to say, dear colleague Cain, it's not right for another country to be offended from this pay phone. The fact that you say that the responsibility for the savings of the Ljubljanska banka belongs to the Ljubljanska Banka is one thing, it is a legal person with full legal responsibility, it is responsible for its actions and actions. But you can't declare her and the state a thief. Please, that's what you said. Please, you said that. Please, please, I am asking you nicely because you have declared a state sovereign from this pay phone a thief, and I am reminding you, and in accordance with Article 215(2), I take away your word on that question. So please don't insult any of the MPs can use a pay phone to insult sovereign states from this space. We continue to correct the incorrect allegations, dear colleague Tomljanovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-14-0.u23226	Mr. Vice-President, in his opening part of the exhibition, Honorable colleague Cain had one false factual assumption when he said a commenting report in relation to the Istrian County that four thousand crimes were committed there, because it was not criminal acts, but criminal charges.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-14-0.u23227	Dear colleague Jarnjak has a correction to an incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-14-0.u23228	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Reverend Caine said at one point, whoever works in this country has no protection. That's not true. And this report should be looking at the other way around. Do not judge him by the number of criminal acts or criminal charges, you will immediately criticise it in the county, but that is exactly what protects him who works.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-14-0.u23229	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues tomorrow will, of course, continue the debate individually on this subject, the first in line will be the honorary colleague of MP Opačić. And after the debate on the report on the work of the State Attorney's Office, we will move to the Report of the Croatian National Bank for 2003, and of course after that to all the points of the agenda for which the conditions for discussion have been met. Thank you very much. I wish you good night, we interrupt today's work, we start at 9.30 tomorrow.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-14-0.u23230	Ladies and gentlemen, we are continuing the session and the individual debate on the Annual report on the work of the state's attorneys in 2003. Dear representative Milanka Opačić, please!
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-14-0.u23231	Mr. President, Mr. Chief State Attorney, colleagues and colleagues! This report on the work of the State Attorney's Office for 2003 shows that the state of the State's attorney's office has significantly improved, that the figures showing an improvement in the quality of the work of the State's attorney's office and a much more active and efficient role of the State's Attorney's Office in the persecution of the perpetrators of criminal offences, therefore that these figures are much better and show a much better quality work. I'm going to refer here today specifically to one part of the State's Attorney's Office's work and that's criminal justice protection for children and minors. And here it is noted that in 2003 a much larger number of reported, accused and convicted for this type of work shows that in this part of things has changed significantly. However, also here, the state's attorney is talking about a number of legal changes in which a slightly or better significant state of affairs could be said when it comes to protecting children in the course of these crimes. However, it is also warned that some ministries have not yet given implementing regulations primarily when it comes to psycho-social treatment to be sent under certain laws that we have passed over the past years, so that certain perpetrators of criminal offences in order to help eliminate domestic violence, primarily when it comes to child abuse, such psycho-social treatment is extremely important in order not to get repeated child abuse. However, Mr. Chief Attorney-General, it is very difficult to be successful and it is very difficult to be at the head of a law firm in which you still have some individuals who do not work in accordance with the law and who in some way obstruct the persecution of those who commit crimes to the harm of the child. The fact is it's very difficult cases, cases that are quite hard to prove. There are very few people who have been educated in cases of child abuse. I will say here only one piece of information that in Croatia there is one single gynecologist who has been educated in foreign countries for the art of child abuse. So, only one educated man. So it's one of the problems in this country, that there are very few professional people who know something about it. But I'm going to say here and I'm going to make some arguments about that there's a person in the State's Attorney's Office named Mrs. Goddess Cvetko who, unfortunately, has so far shown that she's very unwittingly doing her job. Namely, the examples I'm going to talk about have been published in the Croatian public, but no one, therefore Mrs. Bozica Cvetko, has ever denied any of what the journalists have written on every journalist's enquiries. Unfortunately, every time she went threatening to press charges against them. It tells me enough about the fact that there are still all the claims that the journalists wrote. So, in the case of the first case, there was one case from Zadar where there was abuse of a three-year-old girl by her own father, criminal charges were raised, the State Attorney's office went into the whole procedure, but when the procedure was somewhere near the end of Mrs. Bozica Cvetko was directly at a time when the county's state attorney in Zadar had not stopped the process, he withdrew complete prosecution. That's how it was testified by the county state's attorney who said he was really surprised when he returned to his office and saw that the case at the level of Mrs. Cvetko was stopped for no reason at all. Today the fate of these children is very uncertain. In another case, it is a case of multiple abuse of two children by both parents where Mrs. Cvetko is also oral because I know that in writing she has the possibility by law to give certain instructions here intervened that the application was not taken into account and she also rejected by her decision the proposed expert by the County State's Attorney's Office and appointed the witch she wanted. And in the end, another case I'd also like to say that unfortunately nothing has happened. It's about child abuse at the Caritas Children's Home in Brezovica. It is said that two years ago, a report was received about child abuse in that home by the work of the employees, that the Ministry of Labour and Social Care had subsequently sent surveillance to the home, that the supervision had identified the majority of the allegations contained in the report, that the Minister of Labour and Social Care had subsequently filed a criminal application, that, in parallel with the report, Director Caritas gave an interview to a daily newspaper in Croatia in which she admitted all the allegations of the application. Unfortunately, under pressure from certain circles this interview has never been published but is available to the State's Attorney's Office. So it's one indication that those who don't do their job actually work against the interests of children and instead of protecting children leave those children at the mercy of those who abuse them. We tried to change some provisions in the Youth Court Act. We did it. Therefore, the procedures for the study of children and the evidence of child abuse have been significantly reduced. So that's where we managed to keep the kids maximum protection. Some additional financial resources were needed to equip all the county courts and certain equipment for such an examination and that is something I think is very, very positive. However, in this part of the case, children should still be considered to be questioned as soon as possible from all those so required in one proof procedure, in a court procedure and as soon as possible before the time when children need to talk about it rather than after a year, two or three. After that, the pressure of the public is so high on children that they want to say nothing and all other clues that could be found very quickly so they disappear and there is no evidence. So that's something else we should do. I'd just like to say that we all need to know by law that we have a responsibility to inform the competent authorities if we know that a child has been abused. I'm curious to know how many people in the country have been prosecuted who knew and didn't report it because we wrote that it was a criminal offence. The abused children are children who live murdered. They are children who are permanently damaged, and that is why it is extremely important that those who have abused them be judged. I will only tell you for the last time the story of a man from Split who is currently working as a defectologist at the Juraj Bonacci Centre, a man who has suffered severe child abuse. What he said in one of his public confessions was this sentence: "I've been through everything, I've survived everything. The wound I have left is the biggest because no one has helped me. Everyone saw my broken hands, everyone saw my bloody mouth, everyone saw my bruises but nobody helped me.". Because of all of this, we need all of us to help kids who are abused and, first of all, this is about the State's Attorney's office one more time I say in the State's Attorney's office there are a lot of people who are doing their job very well. Unfortunately, here is one person who is responsible for the crimes therefore committed to the harm of children, Mrs. Bozica Cvetko, who has already shown on several occasions that her children are not interested and that she is not professionally doing her job.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-14-0.u23232	Thank you very much. Honorable representative Miroslav Korenika.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-14-0.u23233	Thank you very much, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. State's Attorney. I have to say, like my predecessor, that I'm content with most of the work of the State's Attorney's Office. The fact that maybe here we should talk more about human resources problems within the State's Attorney's office, I suppose, financially, even in relations with the courts themselves. What often bothers me are long-term actions that are within the State's Attorney's office. Is always a thing ad are objects complicated that there's a lot to be done. However, in the public as well as in those who are interested, we often get the impression that it is an unwarranted long procedure from the application to the very adoption of a measure or until the court is brought to justice. In doing so, I have maybe and some arguments, yet I represent a group of people from Varazdin who are suspected of reporting often time and again inaccessiblely long chats in someone's drawers justifiably or unwarrantedly. That's the impression. And besides, I think we should have a different communication with interested parties to make it possible for those who file criminal charges that are interested in certain procedures, to make it much simpler and easier for them to get in touch with the State's Attorney's office to get if they have the right of course, the thing is, and the kind of procedure, to get the information they need. What stage it is and what are the reasons that some of the procedures that are being processed are taking so long. For this I have some of the prairie too, and here I'm going to get some open rimmers. Because often we're satisfied when something is quickly and effectively solved. Of course, there are always doubts among us in public when something, in our thinking, or in the opinion of those who are concerned with the second heaven. For example, we have, we have an example in Varazdin that slowly goes towards antiquity, one part because the first State Attorney's Office or, then the public defender's dispensation has been working for a long time, whether the intentional remains for the assessment. And now it's been in court for a long time. It is an example of agricultural land in Varazdin, which hastily entered the building zone. An illegal replacement has been carried out and unauthorized that an individual has succeeded in replacing it with one, then still a state-owned enterprise. And now what's worse in all this, the state it's proven later would be the city of Varazdin's damaged. The land is no longer owned by the state, it is the property of an individual, the state has found that it is damaged on the basis of applications and criminal claims to return land to the state itself and the city of Varazdin. Unfortunately, the criminal record she filed has not been dropped. After more than two years of criminal charges being dropped because no one's guilty of being damaged, and now in court things are inadmissible for a long time I would say sour, excuse me for saying so. And in doing so, my free opinion that law enforcement isn't big enough in all of that. I have to say here, and the case of all the savings, the chalk of the Credentials Credit Cooperative Cekin of Varazdin. They recently protested in front of the government and in front of the Croatian Parliament. The other thing is whether or not they were damaged in a way that the state could or could not influence the protection of their roles. There can also be debated, there are such indications, such words of individuals, that they wanted high interest to be lured. However, it was also found that the state through the National Bank did not take everything it could to protect its interests because then the state in such a savings credit union had the right to control through the National Bank, the National Bank reported that everything was fine, but those who invested their money without that money remained. And here, interested, that is, their authorised representatives filed criminal charges to the bar in Varazdin, but to this day no response is given. Nothing's going on. And they rightly wonder if it's someone's whim, if it's someone's protecting someone or if it's all right so there's no need, or if it's necessary to dismiss criminal charges. But in any case it would be normal and that's what I'm saying about that communication that then you're interested in the shortest possible time to make real information about what's going on. Because that's how public harassment can happen. I would also point out cases where, in different state attorneys at lower levels, one case is declared a criminal offence by another haystack declared a criminal offence. I have a case of an entrepreneur in Varazdin who came to me because I connected him to a state's chief attorney who thinks he's the victim of a chicanning state's attorney's office on a Slavon ship. He gets there for one act or a misdemeanor, and I'm not going to go in there and say he's guilty or not guilty, and he claims it's a felony. However, a joint application that he himself filed in the city of Zagreb was rejected by the State's Attorney's Office that, being prosecuted by him in the Slavonks ship here in Zagreb, it was not an ato that was declared a criminal offence, but some kind of offence. So I think that within the state's attorney's office itself, there might be stronger coordination on specific cases that we don't have a situation where on one side there's something criminal and that's why there's a legal procedure, on the other State's Attorney's office just nothing. I think it's one way and I guess the attorney general will take a little bit more care of that sort of thing in the next period. So I'm stressing once again, so it's not a problem in most of the state's attorneys' work, or at all levels. It seems to me that, on some special occasion, we're having an affair whether we're high or not, and I think that's why the public's turn should be even more and better than it's ever been before. Anyway, I'm going to support last year's report as an agent. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-14-0.u23234	Thank you. Dear Representative Ivo Josipovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-14-0.u23235	Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor, State's attorney, your colleagues and your colleagues. I must say that of the numerous reports of the state bodies that I have seen the State's Attorney's Office report that we have received is certainly one of the best and most fundamental if not at the very top of those reports. Why do I say this, because the report is a lot of very user data, from which it can be perceived not only the work of the state's attorneys and the State's attorney's office as a whole but also very serious conclusions about the state of crime, the state of justice, and the state of Croatian society in general. Also, since I am professionally involved in the monitoring of criminal law and criminal proceedings, I must say that two years later, the progress the State's Attorney's Office has made in its work, in significant proportion to the general trends in the Croatian society. And it seems to me that the State's Attorney's Office is one of those state bodies that predominates what's called judicial reform. And not only the judiciary, but Croatian societies as a whole. Of course, not to overdo thank you doesn't mean there's no objection. I'd say the State's Attorney's Office was obviously prepared unlike the brains of some other state bodies to drive out their ranks to say perhaps a little harshly, those who have sinned about the laws and ethics. It still needs to be done on one more time by professional profiling its personnel, especially because it seems to me that from practice it is quite visible that certain types of criminal offences are being prosecuted. In this first place, I think of economic crime, where the problem is probably caused and that we lawyers very often do not have enough economic knowledge to get involved in assessing what was going on in the economy and on the plan of organised crime where it seems to me that as a whole, as a society we have not found the right answer. Furthermore, my facilities are also going according to a certain fear, although it is slowly leaving the state's attorney's office and the state's attorneys with regard to the rejection of criminal applications and one of the programme's electricity. Too often we are unfortunately witnesses, and that may be one of the data that is not fully visible. We have data as far as the charges are concerned, but if we look at the result of the application or at least from the start of the investigation or the investigations to the end, we'd see that success isn't as high as it comes from this data. That is, the nature of things, I agree, but in those elements, in those criminal acts or predominant criminal acts where there is not enough evidence, it seems to me that the State's Attorney's Office and for its own efficiency should be more selective and determined to give up where it is to give up. In particular, it seems to me that some investigations, which are of course not only a matter of the State's Attorney's Office, but also of courts where, in the case of acts of crime, it's a problem whether there is a criminal offence in general or not, to get away with it, waiting for the case to be divorced and that actually one interest of the public who focused on a particular case, ceases. With that in mind, here I appeal to greater determination in selectivity, as of course, as other colleagues have said, I appeal for greater determination in the pursuit of what is an unequivocal crime. In this regard, I would warn and give that it is too often to take place in the press and before the proceedings are initiated, especially during the procedure the data is presented in a way that forgets the essence of Article 1. The law on criminal proceedings, which states that the function or purpose of the criminal proceedings is to free the innocent, and to give the penalty which they deserve. Very often, individuals resort to a pillar of shame in a way that is not appropriate to show that there is no crime afterwards. Such individuals have suffered inexplicable damage and irreparable damage, and why I am saying this precisely when I report to a state attorney, because there is a provision in the Criminal Procedure Act that data on suspects can be made public only with consent, with the consent of the State's attorney and I think that the provision should be better and more effective. Furthermore, during the debate on the report and in our Committee on Justice, it was said that, given the limited number of detentions and the few people in prison, we follow European trends, which go towards the fact that prison sentences are not imposed and that as few people are in custody. That's right. However, data interpretation does not always have to be uniform. The thesis on how democratic societies are closing down less, and the non-democratic one really stands, but in transition countries, in particular, we find some anomalies of that principle, so if you look at the number of detainees, so the number of detainees per 100,000, then we would conclude that the biggest democracy in Kosovo is, because there is the lowest rate of detainees, so Serbia-Montenegro, so we are here somewhere, and we are actually something else, and that is something else, that the state is not working and that the prosecution is not at that level that it should be. Also, comparison with European countries shows that Croatia is now somewhere between 50 and 60 people in prison or detention of 100,000 residents among the countries that have the lowest rate and when we compare it to the United States that have about 680, then we see that there is a huge disproportion. So, with this, we absolutely can and should be commended, but we must be careful and see if, to one extent, such a generally good situation is the result of the ineffectiveness of our criminal proceedings. I have already said that a great deal of progress has been made in some types of persecution or persecution of some kind of crime I would point out in this change that apparently occurred within two years in the pursuit of war crimes. It's visible on two fronts. In the first row, the state's attorney or the state's attorney has made an audit, the first review of criminal proceedings that shows that in one large number of 4700 or 600 and some of the procedures or procedures for war crimes were many of those procedures that were not motivated only by legal reasons, but also some others, and I think it's great for Croatia, but also for the prosecution as a whole, that there was a selection, and on the other hand, it's obvious that the State's Attorney's Office has been here lately, and it seems to me that this is also the result of a positive development in the Republic of Croatia that the principle of crime is a crime and that it should be prosecuted regardless of who the perpetrator is. Unfortunately, we see that there are some cases in our judiciary, we will not have some judges, I would not be involved in them which, not for the sake of the State's Attorney's Office, but perhaps for some other participants in the process, do not serve Croatia for honor. But let me conclude, I think it's a great report that shows progress and success in the work of an important state body, but a report that does not hide and the problems that exist, a report that will certainly be encouraging for the State's Attorney's office, but also for the entire Croatian society. Of course that's why I would be very pleased to support the State's Attorney General's report.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-14-0.u23236	Thank you. The Honorable intercessor Niko Rebic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-14-0.u23237	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. State Attorney, colleagues and colleagues. We have a report on the work of the State's Attorney's Office for 2003. Noting that this is a solid report, the full report of the State's Attorney's Office on its structure and work with which it comes before the Parliament, in accordance with the Law on State's Attorney's Office6, I am of the opinion as many that this report is soundly and responsibly done, but still not in detail. It shows the scope of the work done in 2003, the movement and structure of crime, the work on civil and administrative matters, the work on the protection of legality and administrative matters, etc. and other jobs from the Department of State's Attorney's Office. The work problems and the areas of work of the State's Attorney's Office which are not particularly successful can also be read. Reasons are given, but also suggestions for more efficient work. I think actually that this is a realistic state and it gives a special value, and therefore it is also a good basis for a constructive debate. It is evident that the postages are processed and started in thousands of cases, but I would single out exactly those parts and areas that have a significant impact on the economic development of the country. This is the area of legal opinions required by the State's Attorney's Office, it is evident that out of the total number of cases 1/3 refers to opinions given at the request of the former Office for State Property Management, I am particularly referring to legal opinions and interpretations of the Law on Agricultural Land and the Law on Forests. Now it can be said that the interpretation of the state's attorney is that local self-government units cannot be the ultimate beneficiaries of land in economic areas and even in those economic areas that had detailed urban plans and building permits. For God's sake, these economic zones had to have the consent of the Croatian forests to obtain a building permit. In doing so, even more surprising is the way business people interpret the law of a state attorney. Unfortunately, the consequences of this interpretation of the law are catastrophic, in fact, completely halted construction and halted any development and construction of deaths in economic areas. We need to realize that, with all the activities and efforts of the local self-government units, that this opinion has been corrected here for almost a year now, there has been no shift. So life in the zones is completely dead, and the question is, who's in the interest? We wonder from whom Croatian forests protect land when it is generally at least when it comes to Split's Dalmatian county, all economic zones are located so there is no forest on the bare stoner. I was able to explain to those interested in the purchase of land that this was the state's attorney's office's opinion and interpretation before the elections and that it would immediately change by changing power but as I see it to the day it didn't happen. Believe me, these are life issues for citizens of the Voe country who require urgent answers. But they're also opening other questions. I also ask how the Croatian forests could be allowed to be placed on all municipal land in all pastures and even on those forests that were owned and protected by local self-government units during the war between 91s and 93s. In Split's Dalmatian county, Croatia's forests have over 600,000 hectares. On the other hand, the claims for the needs of agricultural production and the construction of entrepreneurship zones do not exceed 3,000 hectares. Knowing this, the question is how are they going to achieve ambitious plans to plant 50 million fruits of vines and olives, how to deter the plants if their interpretation protects the ownership of Croatian forests in those areas. It is interesting to take the state's attorney's case and to report to the Audit Office. In 2003, the State Audit Office submitted a total of 143 audit reports. According to the State Attorney's Office, after carrying out the analysis of the reports submitted, it found that those irregularities were not directly damaged by the Republic of Croatia's assets, but were damaged by the Croatian Privatisation Fund and by shareholders of a particular company, and therefore there was no basis for taking legal actions. Interesting. The question, then, why does the State's audit even deliver such reports to the State's Attorney's office if it is not intended to work on them? If we still look at the work of the corruption control office and organized crime. The office had in the work the Office had worked on, so 470 applications and made 404 decisions. Reports were rejected in 144 cases or 35%, 212 investigative requests or 52% were submitted. According to a final investigation, 108 decisions were made, 40 investigations were suspended. The courts made 41 decisions out of 37 estranged ones. When all of this is considered, what is the publicity of the Office for the Prevention of Corruption and Organized Crime expected, and which the Office has received with modest results, the question of the justification of the existence and work of this Office is raised. It's said the hills were shaking, the mouse was born. If we remember what's not in this report, which is a number of spectacular arrests in front of the TV cameras we remember. The prosecution is obviously for political purposes, because almost everyone has been arrested is actually on the loose. But another question arises, if so many were arrested by certain political groups, did it happen that some who were nice, the authorities remained unprocessed even though they were to be detained. It is obvious that in the work of the State Attorney's Office there are a lot of problems from material technical means of education, prominent experienced experts in the detection of organised crime and so on. I say yet I think this is a well-produced report we can take it to the knowledge. However, when an institution has been paralysing the development of the economy in zones and insists on this opinion for almost a year by its legal opinion and interpretation of the law, then, on behalf of the development of employment and of its kind of production and economy, I think that certain staff changes should be carried out at the summit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-14-0.u23238	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative Željko Ledinski.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-14-0.u23239	Mr. President, the esteemed representative said that the Croatian forests are the owner of the land. I've got to fix that quote. The ruler of the forest land is the Republic of Croatia, not the Croatian forest. The property of the Croatian Forests in capital in the balance sheet is not owned by forests or forest land. So that quote isn't correct. And the owner of Croatian forests as a commercial society is the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-14-0.u23240	Dear Representative Emil Tomljanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-14-0.u23241	Mr. President, the Honorable State Attorney, colleagues and colleagues. We have before us a report on the work of state lawyers for 2003, and we have in the opening section of our presentation in fact the need with the following trials and previous discussions to point to the constitutional and legal definition of the state's attorneyship or what it is in the Croatian judiciary system. because we witnessed the debate when the judiciary was actually mixed, and the attorney's office and jurisdiction for the execution of criminal sanctions and justice so in the whole or position of the State's attorney in general I don't think it is defined either by the constitution or by the basis of the law the right way to do it, perhaps in the very conclusions that would arise from the report in question were like the Croatian Parliament, or, therefore, as Parliament's representatives in their evaluations as they say, more realistic and have had a real picture of the situation. So let's move forward, the State's Attorney's Office as prescribed by the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia Article 124 which constitutional solution is translated into the identical content of Article 2(1). The Law on the State Attorney's Office is an independent and independent judicial body, authorized and obliged to act against the perpetrators of the offences and other criminal offences, to take legal action to protect the property of the Republic of Croatia and to submit legal remedies for the protection of the Constitution and the law. It is very important, even necessary to strictly define the State's Attorney's Office, as well as its place in the Croatian judiciary as an independent and independent judicial body, and particularly its important role within the criminal justice system. Of course, always coming from the fact that the purpose of the criminal proceedings, I repeat, only by a court decision determines the appropriateness of the claim and the request made in the charge of whether a specific criminal offence has been committed, who committed it, whether a penalty may be imposed on the perpetrator or another measure provided for in material criminal law and, of course, I will make it particularly clear here in terms of the criminal proceedings system, starting from the legal and principled review of the innocence of the defendants or suspects. Starting from criminal law in a broader sense of the word, it is always a result of two conflicting aspirations. The first is the effectiveness of criminal justice and the procedure that requires that every perpetrator, every perpetrator, be found and spoken, but the second is the protection of the rights of citizens who seek to prevent unfounded prosecution and condemnation of an innocent person, namely that every person against whom the criminal proceedings are conducted has the possibility of his defence. The first seeking first order requires the legislator to give the criminal proceedings as much freedom as possible to achieve the objective of criminal proceedings as possible, while the second is demanding that the authorities of the criminal proceedings be bound by firm legal forms of conduct, in order to protect themselves from arbitrary and unfounded intrusion into their rights. The result of the relationship of these two conflicting aspirations is the ultimate link between the state government and the individual in a particular society. Processive or process-legal aspects, of course, show the diversity of the norms in the normative structure. Under a (a) acute or accused party procedure, b) a purely inquisition investigation procedure and a mixed type of criminal proceedings. And I'm just surprised, what we had the opportunity to hear in the discussions of some respected colleagues that even the acoustic and inquisitor elements to this extent were mixed up, that some of the powers given to the State's attorneys were interpreted in the wrong way in terms of the relations of the acoustic, pure inquisition or inquisition elements in the criminal proceedings itself. It is an unequivocal fact, and with this assessment I will also complete this opening part, that our criminal procedure system is subject to structural changes, but that it is indeed a mixed type of criminal procedure that takes on more and more elements of the pure acoustic type. Furthermore, there is a complex path, often and long-term which begins by filing a criminal application, resulting in a judicial verdict, regardless of its content. The State Attorney's Office in this regard represents an extremely important segment of the Croatian judiciary, but it must never be seen separately from the whole, because not only can such observation result in a distorted picture but the totality, the system, the judicial system, loses its meaning. And therefore, by observing this, only the work report, it should be concluded that it is based on facts, i.e. the presentation of so on. State-law statistics based on the basic two elements and there I see no reason for all the evaluations, let's say, praise even, estimates that it is a scientific work that has never been done before, never later in terms of quality, scope, methodology and so on, we haven't had a chance to see on the assembly benches, it's a report as well as any other report which a total of the facts processed by certain methods, and these methods or that methodology, in a specific case, comes down to two basic elements. The first is to be guided, as far as the number of indicators of state and movement are concerned, given the number of known perpetrators of criminal offences, so by persons, indeed by persons, as Mr. State's attorney said in his presentation and the second element is the same as the number of criminal charges filed, observed on average compared to 100,000 residents. So the illustration works, the report, and this should be and is the work report, starting with certain parts of the standard formulation. I quote "The state and movement of crime is visible from the charts on 5-year data on filed criminal charges." It's a finished quote. However, the number of criminal charges filed cannot be a foothold or a basic criterion that would give a clear picture of the state and movement of crime. So, I'm talking about crime as a whole. On the contrary, it gives a distorted image and is subject to manipulation in a certain sense that can be the most different species. For example, apartment 22 and 23 reports, economic crime, we have data that 3,264 criminal reports have been resolved, of which 1,434 were rejected, so 43.9%. So almost 50%, so almost every 2nd report and there's a reason, I respect all the elements of that argument, and we're in detail on the Justice Committee, but the fact is, if you want the statistical fact that every other criminal application in that segment has been rejected. What about the investigations? A 761 investigation has been completed, the state's attorneys have dropped out of criminal prosecution compared to 183, but that represents 24%, so every 4th person has been covered by the investigation, and that has not even resulted in the initiation of proceedings before the court. Statistics or reports, which could indeed be followed by the state and movement of crime, are, in my opinion, the relationship between the number of acts of power indictee against the number of judgments. Furthermore, while looking at the observed period, by making a decision to reject a criminal application, it was resolved, a large number of 19,446 applications, almost 20,000 applications. In this regard, the rapporteur himself states, therefore, the submission of the report, "It concerns the trend in the increase in the rejection of criminal returns from the grounds referred to in Article 174(1). The criminal code, therefore, either because of a lack of reasonable doubt that the applicant has committed a criminal offence or because the act reported is not a criminal offence for which the prosecution is committed under official duty, or because of procedural obstacles." The high percentage of discards on this basis and the constant growth in the number of discards indicates the lack of submitted applications, and whether this data only points to the lack of submitted applications or perhaps something else. I don't think so. It also points to the fact that we are as a society, and often state institutions are exposed to different influences and sometimes to pressures. The most sensitive and unique pressures in this area are of course pressures of political nature, but when we have before us the institution of the State's Attorney's Office, we need to look at all those other possible influences and pressures, from the centres of media power, financial powers...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-14-0.u23242	Thanks a lot, buddy. Honorable representative Nikola Mak.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-14-0.u23243	I am pleased with this co-existent material that we have received and which enables really one quality discussion of facts and everything behind this report, regardless of now superlatives or other connotations, this should be a report that should be a model for all the other reports that we get on the benches. Unlike my predecessors who spoke about classical forms of crime and all other forms of law enforcement, I will direct my attention to page 40th and 41st of this report. It's about the law on the return of property someone calls it the Colloquial Law on damages, someone calls it the Law on denationalization, we know what it was about, which was made to correct the injustices that were committed in 45, 48. 50. etc., when brutal force was violated by a centuries-old millennium right to private property and overnight people's assets were taken away. Since it is within the jurisdiction of the State Attorney's Office that they have committed the affairs of the former Public Attorney's Office to appear as a party in the proceedings of this denationalisation or return and where it is the task of the attorney to protect the legality in a transfer sense to protect the State's property, the question now arises whether the citizens who make up the state and who need to be protected against their rights under this law. Namely, what happens in practice when these figures are interpreted as living people, according to families, according to the people whose property has been taken away and now returned by this law. They are not the subject of protection and the state's attorney's office, in my knowledge, quite aprioristic, if I may put it this way, invests the flows legally and thus retains the final solutions in these proceedings. These procedures are already very complex in themselves, and they are dealt with in a very painful administrative procedure in the offices of the state administration by county, and when people come to a first degree solution that is generally very clean and very high-quality, the state's attorney's office is now taking effect and investing certain streams and certain means of law, and now there is a braking of these processes, although in a large number of cases it is all very clear and there is no problem for these people not to return that property. And now we're looking at these data, which are very correct but which reveal one frightening phenomenon that in the reporting period there were 33 thousand and 419 items from which 29 thousand 666 and 3 thousand 753 new items were reportedly completed and that 1492 items were properly completed, and we came to an understanding that should be frozen, to be executed, because if such a rate continues to solve such cases, these cases, then those cases, which will be recorded 31. 12. In 2003, the protocols will be resolved in 22 years. And now the question is who's protecting who, who's defending whom, who's attacking whom, and who's coming closer. These are objective facts that come out of this Report very whiteishly and which should be unacceptable to both the state's attorney's office and to the Parliament and our society as a whole, because imagine you, that now someone statistically speaking normally it turns out now a little cartoon must wait 22 years for his subject to one degree of this process, the return of property to be settled. Normally, it's 15 today. Ten. In 2004, one significant number of cases was from 1. The first year he arrived at the state's attorney's office. My thinking and my proposal, Mr. Lawyer, goes in this direction that the state attorney's office, when it invests legal resources on first-degree solutions, someone has already mentioned here elasticity, understanding, etc., has in mind that citizens are also an integral part of that state and not only the state as an abstract concept or as an individual institution of the state, and that it should be really careful to assess whether it makes sense to make a complaint, appeal or any other remedy or should simply be said, is the fact that it is so and should be acted upon first-degree settlement because it should be said that when the State's attorney is making a complaint, it goes to the Ministry of Administration and the Justice, as far as I know, there are also at the beginning of 1999 or 2000 in the process of resolving these complaints. And now that something very important, let's keep in mind that the people to whom this property was taken are 45. K48, 50th and some year a historical injustice was committed. IF these are old people if they are alive at all, and if they are not alive and their heirs are already very old people, and in any case, they should make an effort to speed up these procedures to the extent that they can be realistically expected in view of the human, spatial and other conditions. But not to make unnecessary difficulties, to the people to whom injustice has been done, and this law should restore justice to them. Although we do know that the Property Return Act has entered into force. Seven. In 1997, so it's been seven years, if we know that 30% of these first-degree requirements are only solved then we see that a large number of citizens are experiencing one particular injustice because of some of our problems. And in the end here is also about this form of natural... agricultural and forest land. For agricultural land, it is clear that in natural form it can be restituted because PICs that were the main beneficiaries of this land no longer exist and do not represent power. However, Croatian forests are an excellent and well-organised economic unit in Croatia and are monopolies in a certain sense so that private owners whose property is being returned have no one to turn to in relation to the skills, compared to getting their share from these existing forest complexes even though the ownership relationship, catastrian, grantov, etc. It's very clear. My pledoia is to show more elasticity and more understanding and to speed up these processes and to see the end of certain procedures in a year's report in at least 11 years' time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-14-0.u23244	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative Ratko Gajica. He's gone. He's losing his right. Mr. Representative Prof. Dr. Here you go, glorious Leticia. On behalf of the HSP Club, that's exactly five minutes, right?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-14-0.u23245	Dear Vice President Bebić, Mr. Secretary of State, my handicap, but I guess a small advantage of not being a lawyer, so I'm not obliged to join the compliments shown here by my esteemed colleague Josipovic, I think I'll correctly quote him "I think I think it's a great report" or most of them rated it that way. Indeed, Mladen Bajic looks like a great man, and I read in "Free Dalmatia" one panegire who wrote by journalist Dusan Čizmić-Marović, but this penegiric I tried sociologically to interpret the circumstances that he was born in Sjedanovac, and Bajic in Zadvarje, so I appreciate it as a kind of local patriotism. The HSP Club considers that too little attention is given not only in the report, but also in the work of the State's Attorney's Office, cancer of the early Croatian society, and these are corrupt crimes. I think that the activities of the State's Attorney's Office of the Croatian Court of Justice of the Investigation Authorities and the Police should be directed towards corruption and the crime of capture of the state. Of course, if you look at the report, they're dedicated to one page and two lines. For example, only 5 persons have been reported from state officials for the abuse of their duties, for the total receive of bribes and corruption related only 65 persons have been reported. Of the people involved in bankruptcy proceedings, where the biggest corruption, the biggest process of organised crime and the capture of the state has been reported by a judge of the County Court, a bankruptcy judge, and a deputy of the Municipal State Attorney's Office. Just because I am not a lawyer, the HSP Club prepared a detailed report on corruption, conflict of interest and capture of the Croatian state before the summer. We need to update this material that we've been working on for six months, and this material shows for example that it's a crime of capture of a country that I've often talked about in this high school, unknown to the Croatian legal system, far from the work of the State's Attorney's office, and this is about situations where individuals and political groups in different institutions in this higher home, in the government, in the City Chiefs, in the Office of the President of the Republic, use the state as a kind of private property in the judiciary. According to a World Bank survey on the capture of the state, unfortunately the Republic of Croatia among the transition countries is located somewhere on the fifth, somewhere in the fourth, somewhere in third place. So, I will conclude, since this means to me that I think the good news that I just got from the State's Attorney's Office, I will also ask in writing, that at least on the basis of two documents that undisputedly represent the crimes of the state's capture, according to my theoretical insight, are to be applied to my application and give the documents to the Prime Minister, Dr Ivo Sanader and Finance Minister Ivan Shuker, on two contracts connected by the former minister of which all of which is not Radimir Cacic and the staff of the Croatian Roads, I have received information that has gone from a dead end and I will get a written way to get these documents. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-14-0.u23246	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ Club, five minutes, Mr. Representative Drazen Bosnjak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-14-0.u23247	Mr. Vice President, Mr. State's Attorney. This report clearly shows that the organisation and work of the State Attorney's Office has been raised to one really high level and if only 1.8% of outstanding applications remain in the past year, then it is indeed above the European Monday, although we have reached the fact that the criminal application is resolved after a period of 4 months, it is indeed a great result. Also in all these statistical reports, the success of the disputes you are conducting is one high percentage of success, and this is undoubtedly one reason for satisfaction, although in the criminal section there is a lot of opportunity for progress in criminal parts related to economic crime. You wrote that yourself in your report. and in any case today the economy is indeed so complexly sophisticated and the detection and persecution of these crimes is quite difficult and complex and in any case you have put forward a proposal for measures. I think it's necessary for the State's Attorney's Office to secure both experts, even if it's necessary to establish some kind of center that would be on the disposition of the State's Attorney's Office and all the state's bodies. However, what I have to say about this report, which I said yesterday at the opening club, despite a brilliant report, the facts that this report gives us, unfortunately, are not a cause for satisfaction, but that, by virtue of this report, we must be concerned by me. We must be concerned about that civil section, because we saw that in the last year, more than 16 thousand lawsuits were filed against the Republic of Croatia in 2003, in which the Republic of Croatia was sued for the value of the total claim of 2.6 billion kuna. By 2003, we had 15,000 items under way, and there's a demand of about 5 billion kuna. So at this point, we're being sued in over 30,000 cases for the total value of over 8 billion kunas without interest, at no cost, so it's a far larger amount. And that's one fact that's really worrying, and that's the fact that we really have to ask the government to stop this trend this year. Because it's simply the obligations that we'll have when we're hit and then they're going to overload the state budget and then we're going to co-defend each other in what period these facts are based on which the state is being sued, who's guilty and the like. And so, indeed, the statistical report and the criminal section have no objections, structure, crime, it appears to be at the level of the past years. However, this civic part, I'm afraid, we've all had a little bit of a full report that we've priced it and put it on the other side, and it might even be good to go with a separate report and a separate topic to deal with these items and put a focus and emphasis on it. Because it's something that we'll really be interested in in the future, something that can be important to us. and therefore the Croatian Democratic Community Club welcomes the report in this statistical section. However, we are expressing concern and dissatisfaction with this number of lawsuits against the Republic of Croatia and are asking for this trend to be stopped and we are asking for this problem to be resolved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-14-0.u23248	Thank you very much. On behalf of the SDP Club, Madam Representative Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-14-0.u23249	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Attorney General, colleagues and colleagues. As the SDP Club was introduced, it accepts a report on the work of the State's Attorney's Offices for 2003. Someone liked it or not. It remains an irrefutable fact since Mr. Bajic is headed as chief state attorney that all cases have been updated. That the state's attorney's office has achieved absolute alertness. Of course she stays really here and it was one here and the debate I'd say she was well-intentioned, about one disproportionate that shows here which one was seen between the applications and the rejected applications. There are a number of rejected applications, and why it is so and why and how it should not be so or how to come to a solution that would not confuse the public. In any case, do and work on further reform and criminal procedural law. In this regard, the actions have already started, and I think they should be updated, we hear from the government and in particular from the Ministry that the task force is working hastily, however, the task force should already bring its work to an end, because that is where the second year is approaching. It's an unbearable situation precisely because of this thing that we still have two lines of command today to discover, to provide clues and evidence in that initiation of the very prosecution. Much has already been done with the novel that the repressive executive apparatus, the regular authorities, is functionally connected along with part of the judicial authority. But I think as long as we have a focal situation like this, there won't be any significant shifts, or there's going to be this disproportionate. So, to be very specific, we are absolutely mature to get the investigation out of our official criminal proceedings not only because it will speed up the proceedings but rather to remove this situation of reporting or rejection of reports where various speculations can occur. So, finally, the time has matured for the State Attorney's Office to manage from the very beginning the procedure to put part of the redistributive authority under the cap and authority in this sense by the State's Attorney's office and then the State's Attorney General to appear before the court when it is absolutely to a good extent certain that the outcome will be favourable to the State's account, i.e. it is certainly in what I say from the beginning, with a higher degree which it claims. So here it's shown that I think about it and there's an absolute consensus at least as we've seen from the government's announcement but it needs to be done as soon as possible. Here one concern has been expressed about the large number of cases in which the state has been sued, the truth remains a huge number but significantly reduced from what we had in 2000. How do you end it? It's simple for the ministries to act legally, because this is the result of a defeating number of concerns not by the state's attorney's office which points to this rather than by the conduct of the executive authority. Because that is exactly what you see in that one number, and then in the amount of the amount, you see how legally the state has acted. A great burden was that he arrived at the collection of coalition authorities for 10 years of litigation and that the state had to pay at the end with huge interest. IF that were not the case, we also have a mechanism now in amendments to the Law on a litigation procedure where the state is obliged to recognise such obvious demands and a step forward would be precisely so that the executive authority would behave legally so that such complaints would not occur. And yet again, I finally think that praise is worth the conclusion that the Justice Committee itself has made. Here is the preparation of the 2005 Budget where the need to secure the necessary resources is highlighted to make the work of the state's attorney's office as successful as possible, whether we really want to do so and to support materially, whether we want to live up to what we have shown here today, we will see very quickly when the 2005 budget is voted specifically for the approval of the part relating to the judiciary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-14-0.u23250	Thank you. And now, Mr. Attorney General Mladen Bajic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-14-0.u23251	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen, I will be very brief. First of all, I am extremely pleased that the debate in the House has shown that you have studied this report in detail and the information indicated in it. No pretense to say whether we were good or not. I have to say that in the state's attorney's office, if we're taking care of statistical indicators backwards, we've made a shift, but I still don't think that's enough from our conclusions at the end of this report, it's enough to come out that we've been critical of ourselves, of the state's attorney's office, and what we have to do to make sure that the state's attorney's office really achieves those tasks that are set before him. I have to say once again that you always have to make sure that the state's attorney's office is just one link in the state's repression chain when we're talking about a criminal offence from the police, inspection services, and the state's attorney's office and I'm still not talking about it. On the other hand, in the civil legal area, we have tried these statistical indicators, the information we have given you a complete picture of the situation in that area, the government's obligations and all that is required of us in the country or the Republic of Croatia to achieve the results that are required of us. However, the fact is that all of us in the State's Attorney's Office want to achieve those results so that we can respond to the tasks set before us and make a contribution to the rule of law in which we live. However, I must stress one more thing that cannot be seen from the report, the state's attorney's office is generally more specific, namely 20% of the systemised staff are missing in the state's attorney's office, and another problem that is constantly showing that people from the state's attorney's office are running away either in courts or in private lawyers where they find it much easier and better to achieve their own problems, they solve their family problems. However, without further ado, we believe that in the next period, first of all thanks to the support of the executive authority in the part of the implementation of the budget for the national attorney's teaming in the coming year, we will be able to achieve what we have so far been unable to achieve, and this is to form a special department for the control of state's attorneys, which, on the other hand, would have to control the work of lower state attorneys and thus achieve more and better results than it has achieved so far, first and foremost, the unification of practices, and on the other hand, the detection of irregularities in lower state attorneys. With this in mind, I call upon you, too, parliamentary representatives, given the information you have on the ground, that each of you address the State's Attorney's office or me personally, if necessary, in the direction of detecting any irregularities you have seen on the ground or at least to clarify these situations. So, gentlemen, I thank you for your comments, for your suggestions, and I think that the state's attorney's office and all of us within our system will pay particular attention to everything we consider to be in accordance with the law and the problems that we face in the next period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-14-0.u23252	I thank the attorney general Mr. Mladen Bajic. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-14-0.u23253	Annual report on the work of state attorneys in 2003. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposals of the working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: The Annual report on the work of the national lawyers in 2003 is accepted. Please come in. The vote. Score. I note that the proposed conclusion was reached by 103 votes for, 2 abstentions and 3 votes against.
