ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u16818	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. You have before you the Government's proposal for first changes to the state budget, at first let me start with two things that we in the Government think are most important and that must be a basic guideline through fiscal policy making, and these are two things that, if they do not keep under control, could have a significant impact on macroeconomic stability or instability. This is primarily the external debt of the Republic of Croatia. The Republic of Croatia is unfortunately at this time the country which has the highest foreign debt participation in a gross-domestic product of all transition countries. At the moment measured in euro, the foreign debt of the Republic of Croatia is 76%, and the next by responsibility from the transition countries is Hungary with 66%, so a total of 10 percentage points lower external debt than the Republic of Croatia, but what should be the goal of fiscal policy is to remain in the Mastricht criteria. If it continues with such a policy as it has been in recent years then it can easily happen that at the end of 2005, the Mastric criteria that are 60% public debt, participation in the gross domestic product, and hence the main guidelines and projections of the fiscal policy of the Republic of Croatia in the next 4 years are that the deficit that was 6.3% in 2003 was to 3.7% in 2004, 3.2% in 2006, and 2.9 in 2007. So these are the basics of macroeconomic and fiscal projections for the next three years. However, what I would like to say is what brings this budget rebalance and in what macroeconomic environment this budget rebalance is created in. First of all, I would like to say that this budget rebalance suggests an increase in revenue of 2 billion and 820 million and 78 thousand 676 kuna and an increase in expenditure is proposed by a billion 938 million 355 and 560 thousand kuna, so the proposed budget rebalancing rate first reduces the country's deficit by 614 million kuna from the one proposed in the original budget, the second thing reduces the receipts of this is the debt of 484 million kuna. The main macroeconomic developments in the first half of the year as a prerequisite for this rebalancing are that industrial production increased by 4.1%) in the first 5 months, inflation in the first 5 months was up by 2%, trade by 3.4%, overnight tourists in the first 5 months registered a 10% growth compared to the first five months of last year, the rate of statistical unemployment was reduced from 19.1% at the end of 2003, to 18% at the end of May of this year, exports in the first 5 months increased by 14.4% while imports increased by 4.12% therefore measured in kuna, with it being said that this was the first time after 10 years that exports recorded a much faster growth than imports. So all trends in the first half of this year point to the recovery of economic activity after the slowdown in the second half of 2003, and our expectations in the real growth of the gross-domestic product increased by 3.2, during which we were projected in the adoption of the budget, which was considered rather conservative, on the basis of these macroeconomic indicators of gross-domestic growth in 2004 will be 3.7%. As for income, they increased by 6% in the first 6 months of 2003, the value added tax increased by 7.8%, excise duties increased by 2%, of which the weakest increase recorded by oil, tobacco and beer, while the biggest increase was recorded by excise duties on alcohol, non-alcoholic drinks, coffee and cars. I have to say that the problem of billing fees, their pick-ups still remains a major problem of state finances, I was talking about when we discussed last week changing excise duties on personal cars and tobacco. Unfortunately, this service is not set up, it is as it is, and in the next few months it is necessary to work on that service to start and control, not just by recording the obligation to pay the fees. Also, as far as tobacco processing is concerned, the big difference between excise duties in Republika Srpska and excise duties in the Republic of Croatia is a normal thing as soon as there is such a big difference that the problem with cigarettes is on the black market. Contribution payments account for an increase of 8.4% compared to the same period last year, while capital revenues account for an increase of 5.4%, or as I have already said total budget revenues compared to the first 6 months of 2003, see growth of 2.3%. Also, in your proposal for amending the budget, you have also received a budget of 30. Six. In the year 3004 you saw that at the annual level, therefore, the collection in the first 6 months is 46.5% which is more than satisfactory for the reasons that the third and fourth quarter are always fiscally far more productive than the first and second quarter. As for the spending party, I will highlight only a few expenditures for the simple reason that they may need a little more attention and a little more reasoning. In particular, funds for the programme of incentives for employment and development of companies. This envisions providing additional funding of 109 million and 559 000. So, as you probably had the opportunity to read the statement from the fund manager, the main problem here is that most of these funds in the first half of this year went to pay off three gross salaries under the Workers' Bank Act, above all Viktor Lenc, and also certain commitments made by the former Government's employment programme went a little faster with dynamics in the first six months than was foreseen when the 2004 budget was drawn up, so it is proposed that the funds of the Fund for Development and Employment increase by this amount of 109 million kuna. Also to encourage development programmes for small and medium-sized enterprises, an additional increase of 12 million kuna is proposed and an additional amount of 2 million kuna guarantees is proposed to encourage small and medium-sized craftsmen. The Croatian Railways subsidy programme and the implementation of the concession contract for the construction of the Zagreb-Macelj highway, the decision of this Government is that all the funds granted as a subsidy or support or in any way to Croatian railways should be an integral part of the state budget. You know that in the past months when there have been very bile debates in this assembly, right around the Croatian railways, we have broken the spear, whether it is one way or the other, that simply in the future it is not, this government proposes that a billion and 214 million funds for wages, material costs, investments for Croatian railways be part of the budget, so that with those funds approved in the 2004 budget plus the means of tilted trains for Split to be clear, transparent and adj of every Croatian citizen who wants to see it, can be seen in the position of the Ministry of the sea, tourism, transport and development, how much money is allocated to Croatian railways annually. So, no short-term loans that will not be recorded through the budget clearly in their position, but the expenditure that will be visible, clear, and anyone who wants to see how much each year is allocated to the Croatian railways. Thus, by including practically Croatian railways, this part is given from the state budget, so the subsidy becomes an integral part of the consolidated balance sheet of the state. and I think it should have been done long ago, for the simple reason that the state budget is devoting too much resources from the position of the budget, and on the other hand, when you look from the position of HZ it's not enough, it's little, so that it doesn't have the necessary amount of transparency and public insight why these money is being spent. The participation in the capital of the concession society of 49% of the capital, i.e. 73 million and 500 thousand kuna for the construction of the Zagreb-Macelj highway, is also foreseen. The Republic of Croatia must also provide 58 million and 870 thousand kuna capital for the financing of construction works, totalling 132 million and 370 thousand kuna, these are the funds which are based on the contract signed last year, which the Government of the Republic of Croatia should ensure to start building the Zagreb-Macelj highway. Also in the implementation of the social care and pension programmes. It is proposed to raise 40 million and 912 thousand kuna for the disabled and family pensions of Croatian defenders. And as part of the social care expenditure, there is an increase in funds for a personal disability of €11 million, €698 thousand, and for other social benefits and assistance of €52 million 314 thousand, totalling €64 million. I would also like to say something about the 500 million kuna increase in the position of the Ministry of Finance. That's where I'd like to draw everyone's attention to two positions. One position of the guarantee reserve fund is increasing by 220 million kuna, for the simple reason that, with the basis of the guarantees issued over the past years for the first five months, 330 million were charged, and that position practically for the first 6 months was used almost 100% as planned. From that basis, an increase in that position of 220 million kuna is planned. It is also proposed to increase the interest rate of 201 million kuna. So these are bonds and loans raised in previous periods. Given the expenditure spent for the first 5 months, it is obvious that the projected funds will not be sufficient, therefore an increase of 201 million kuna is proposed. Also, an additional 51 million kuna is proposed for fostered housing savings. Therefore, this proposed budget shows that the deficit proposed by the 2004 budget of 5 billion and 210 million is reduced to 4 billion and 587 million in this proposed budget. Or a total of 614 million kunas are reducing the deficit of the central state. So it's just one confirmation of the government's policy that goes towards fiscal stability and consolidation of the state, it's a confirmation that this government wants to run a policy of transparent public finances. I have to say, a lot has been done in recent months to consolidate the Treasury. It is already possible to see a lot of data which, unfortunately, at the moment of the takeover of power could not be seen. And I have to say only when the state treasure is fully functioning, then we can also talk about the rationality of the use of funds. And let me just have a few more words at the end. I have to say, at the end of last year, there are so many outstanding bills left. However, it is very interesting that according to the accounts and sub-accounts of various ministries and users of the state budget, there were 760 million kunas. I also want to say that for those 760 million kunas the deficit fell last year. So the moment the deficit last year took into account these 760 million kunas, which were in various accounts, because if it hadn't worked that way, then the deficit would have been greater by 0.30 and something else. So we're counting on it. The funds are on giro-accounts and sub-accounts of various users. and it would not be correct to include it in the deficit if those funds were there. Why did someone or didn't pay certain expenses, the funds were on the jury's account I don't want to comment on. But this only clearly indicates that the State Treasury must function as soon as possible. Because as long as the Treasury doesn't work, it's very hard to talk about how the taxpayers' funds are being used rationally, that maybe certain expenditures can't be reduced. I know from the debates over the past few days about it, why this position has been reduced, why that position has not been increased. At least there had to be two or three million kunas. All of these funds and the reduction of certain items were based on talks with resolute ministers that at the end of the year 31.12, what happened last year and what happened in previous years was that we had a few hundred million kunas neutralised while at the same time to individual ministers or some other budget users might have missed several million kunas to complete the project. So, ladies and gentlemen, here you have a proposal for budget rebalance. I said what the basic intentions were. I must also be pleased to conclude that the basis of these proposed changes in the budget and the data on the implementation of the budget for the first six months can be seen for all those items that were heard when the budget was adopted that there would be insufficient funds for their implementation, that all these items were executed below 50%. This means that, for the implementation of these programmes by the end of the year, there will be enough funding and so that the 2004 budget projection has been quite realistic, and it has indeed rested on realistic basis because if it hadn't been for that time in the implementation of the budget for the first six months, much greater excesses would have been seen. So this is just a alignment of certain items. This is the inclusion of the Croatian Railways in the budget for the simple reason to see the transparency of public finances because the funds that go towards the Croatian Railways are not small at all, they are not feminine and therefore they need to be included in the budget rather than in various short-term loans to solve problems so that even dear God does not know how much of these funds are spent. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u16819	Thank you. The committee's rapporteurs. The Legislative Committee? No, I don't. The Committee on Finance and the State Budget? The Committee on Economy, Development and Reconstruction? No, I don't. The Tourism Committee? The Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities? The Committee on Local District Self-Government? Yeah. President Mršić, the Honorable Representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u16820	Honorable President, Your Honor! The Committee on Local and Regional Areaal Self-Government supported the adoption of budget rebalancing and the Law on the implementation of the state budget but pointed out two things in the debate. One thing is that local self-government is the one that is experiencing the largest restriction in this state budget because it reduces the ability to borrow units of local self-government from 3% to 2%, which is in absolute numbers, means that instead of 470 and instead of 600 million of this year, local self-government units will be able to borrow 275 million, and if we assume that the government has so far issued guarantees in this year by 200 million means that, by the end of the year, all local self-government units will remain only 75 million kuna for the end of the year, and the Committee therefore noted that this would not be good but should therefore remain at 3%. Secondly, the problem of paying taxes on income is highlighted by annual applications where some units of local self-government have come into problems of funding, or even in difficulty, even if some units of local self-government have been blocked due to return of income tax per year, and one thought has been stressed that they have to cancel practically and decentralised funds for decentralised functions because the work now reduces the tax income of local self-government units in the last year compared to what the ministry has to return this year and is asked if it can consider that at least that part of the refunding units of local self-government so that they are indeed achieving 2.9, 22.06% of the decentralised income as prescribed by law and not to reduce it now by the basis of tax returns because this is indeed less obtained for what was to be obtained under these basic or origin laws. Finally, I repeat, the law has mostly supported both laws.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u16821	President of the Tourism Committee, respected representative Ante Markov.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u16822	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary! As an interested working body, the Committee on Tourism discussed changes and additions to the State budget for 2004 and a united debate was held on amendments and additions to the Law on the implementation of the state budget. Introductory finance minister explained the effects expected from the rebalancing of this budget. It has been discussed that individual reductions in the positions of organised transport subsidies and support to small and medium-sized entrepreneurs are the result of an assessment by the ministry itself that simply these funds will not be spent during this financial year. This is explained for the reason why it is estimated that this psychological effect which can cause a reduction of subsidies may have a negative impact in this sensitive tourist season but also since the policy of the organised traffic subsidy in recent years has given its good effects and, of course, should continue with this practice and should not have been a problem with the collection of subsidies by foreign and domestic airlines and other carriers as this could result in adverse effects. But the proposings have made sure that this will not happen and that everything agreed in the process of subsidies and incentives in tourism will be fully respected. The debate was thus concluded and it was decided that most votes should be proposed to the Croatian Parliament to adopt these two draft laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u16823	Thank you. Committee on Agriculture and Forestry, President-in-Office Bozidar Pankretic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u16824	Mr. President, Mr. Minister! The Committee on Agriculture and Forestry had one sad debate I must say in which, of course, almost all speakers were condemned to cut the budget on the item for the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry. Of course, at the end of most votes, i.e. 6 votes for and 2 votes against a supported state budget, but all speakers pointed out that in a situation like this when we have a lot of negative trends, when we have expanded the overall liberalisation of the agricultural market itself, etc. It is inadmissible that the budget for the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry and the water economy is reduced to certain items from the capital part of irrigation to certain institutions such as the Food Agency, of course those parts which I would say interest all of our agricultural producers in particular. But of course, I said most of the votes were supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u16825	Thank you. The Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities, President-in-Office Furio Radin.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u16826	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities discussed the amendment and addition of the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2004 at its 9th session on 12 July 2004. The Committee held a hearing as an interested working body and in the section relating to the allocation of funds to budgetary users used for the protection of human rights and to the financing of certain needs of national minorities as well as those abroad. The debate found that the amendment and the addition of the state budget did not change the funds foreseen in the 2004 state budget for the needs of national minorities. However, it is pointed out in particular that when drawing up the 2005 budget, it is necessary to take account of the provision of funding for the implementation of the national programme for Roma, through the relevant items of the ministry responsible for the implementation of that programme. In fact, it was concluded that the Committee also warned the Government of the Republic of Croatia in the process of adopting an auction budget that all state bodies did not provide for meetings for the implementation of that programme and it was requested that this should be taken into account when amending and supplementing the State budget. However, in the proposal submitted by the government to the parliament, the Committee proposal is not respected. It is therefore requested that, in the coordination of the Office for National Minorities and the Council for National Minorities, the competent national authorities consider the issue hastily and that the failure detected is certainly corrected at the latest in the preparation of the 2005 budget. So the Roma problem remains. It is also pointed to the difficult financial situation of several municipalities in particular those in the area of return, i.e. in areas of special state concern. It is proposed to bridge the problem from the funds of the current stock to ensure the resources necessary for the basic expenditure of these municipalities. It is also indicated that the need to open a debate on a development-enhancing system in municipalities in the area of special public concern. It has been said that there are several sources of resources from which the development of these areas is encouraged. If they are often not known enough, guideships in these areas. It would therefore be significant that in order to ensure the transparency of the system and the right to access the funds, the debate on the subject is open on the basis of materials prepared for that purpose by the competent national authorities. After the debate was held, the Committee unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament an amendment to the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2004. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u16827	Thank you. The Committee on Information, Information and Media. Nothing. The Committee on Gender Equality. Honorable representative Carmela Caparin.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u16828	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Minister, members of the government, colleagues and colleagues. At its 9th session held on 13 July 2004, the Committee on Gender Equality of the Croatian Parliament discussed the amendment and addition of the State Budget for 2004 submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the President of the Croatian Parliament by an act of 8 July 2004. The Committee discussed the proposal to amend and supplement the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2004 in accordance with Article 140. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. Following the opening presentation of a representative of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the Committee members supported the proposed amendments and additions to the State budget. The Committee specifically referred to the proposed amending budgets for the work of the Ombudsman for gender equality. In this regard, it was indicated that there was a reduction in the funds of cca. 27% in the position of the prosecutor for gender equality, however, is the opinion of the majority of the Committee members that this will ensure the implementation of the Law on Gender Equality. After the debate was held, the Committee decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament a proposal to amend and supplement the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2004. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u16829	Thank you. Committee on Education Science and Culture, Vice-President, Honored Representative Željko Pavlic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u16830	Your Honor, Mr. President. The Committee on Education, Science and Culture of the Croatian Parliament considered its 6th session, held on 13 July 2004, the proposal to amend and supplement the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2004 as an interested working body. The debate expressed understanding of the reasons for access to amendments and additions but at the same time prevailed in the assessment that such a proposal as amendments and additions to the State budget in 2003, all in connection with the characteristics of the State budget for the past and this year led to stagnation in financing the area of education, science and culture. In the debate, it was found that the proposal has rightly paid more attention to some needs. For example. The proposed increase, the benefit of participating in the Olympic Games, has also been pointed to an even greater interest in other areas of movement that have not been satisfactory so far. Funding of scientific recruits, funding of school libraries, etc. After the discussion, the Committee members did not accept with, there were 5 votes in favour and 5 votes against proposing to the Croatian Parliament the adoption of an amendment and the completion of the State budget for Croatia for 2004. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u16831	Thank you. So it's 5:5?- I'm sorry. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the IDS Club, Honored Representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u16832	Dear Mr. President, Your Honor, Mr. Secretary, Your Honor, Mr. Representatives. Well, I would have dared say that six months ago it was clear that there would be a new budget rebalance for 2004. And maybe that's not the problem. The problem is that this rebalancing does not follow one quality, more specifically any new government programme, not counting that agreement with the IMF, which is necessary clearly because of the country's credit rating. It is not a questionable goal of reducing the deficit left as a burden to the new government but the problem is that the budget is growing, which is clear, due to citizens' appetite and pay-offs. But it's unusual that all the money defacto goes into spending and buying social peace because it's evident that the unions will leave the government alone for six months so they have two months of vacation and then at the 10th month we can forward it. It is not a problem that VAT is not reduced because it was unlikely that it would be possible even though it goes with a vote on the law and will vote for any tax reduction, but rather the problem that one was promised in so-called. the financial card, and then the excises are increased and the monopolies are left with enormous profits. It's not that it's not 30. 6. opened the entire section of the road from Zagreb to Split is already a problem because the government expects a growth of 3.7%, which is realistic but was in that period last year, for a year 4.3%. And that's true, this year it's going to be 22 billion kunas, which is domestic, which is foreign loans, which is each fourth budget kuna. This debt goes beyond any major investment this year, but the problem is that we boast about growth for the first five months which is de facto half as much as in the same period last year. Industrial production growth for the first 5 months was 6.3% and 2004. 3.2%. Construction work growth for the first 5 months was 21.2%, 2004. 10.1%. We have three times less foreign investment than last year and we think that with this economy, we can do anything that is clearly a delusion that we can repay the entire debt to pensioners and raise salaries in the public sector and give up privatization and rehabilitate broken economic systems, build roads, give up foreign loans, etc. Unfortunately, it's just not possible. However, let me just mention one piece of information presented by Mr. Andrija Kojikovic, who is today an adviser to the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, and was a contemporary ambassador of Croatia to London, who claimed that in 2003 it was sold to foreigners in the Republic of Croatia 30 thousand properties. Then I guess in Istria, then about six, seven thousand. None sold local self-government or Istrian county to any of the foreigners. They sold citizens, clearly to raise their standards, but the problem is something else. That's not the problem. The problem is that there are no relevant foreign investments and there will probably not be any. And that's where the government should get the most of it. We all know why they're not here. Because Croatia is as expensive as Monte Carlo. In 3 years life has accumulated in Croatia by more than 30%. Why is there no investment? Because the procedure is endless, because the ambience is reluctant and so on. The truth is, unemployment has been reduced to 18% from 19.1% to below 300 grand. In Istria last year, unemployment was 6.5%, today below 5%, but it should be calculated that in Croatia we have 10,000 jobs in the season and tourism, agriculture, which return to the bureau again in the 9th month. I would dare say that the Croatian economy is tough enough to have a growth of 3, that for a growth of 3.4%, it needs neither the Parliament nor the Government. The Croatian economy is so tough that we do not need any measures to grow from 3% to 4% except simplifying the administrative procedure. Tomorrow, when the rules of behaviour are clear, growth will be even bigger, but I keep asking myself who simply doesn't know Croatia is pampering with Euroscepticism, the rush of foreigners and the like. And I think they're importers, and that's why I want to say next. Croatian exports in 10 years, 1994, were $4.3 billion. Last year was $4.9 billion. On the other hand, imports were $5.2 billion in 1994. Last year was 14.2 billion dollars. I purposely mention it because in the second part of this, I will ask that something be made available to our electoral unit Istria, Rijeka, the Primorje-Goran County, holding that space very much participated in the Budget of the Republic of Croatia, on the other hand returning to the drop. I also know that policy based exclusively on the demand from the budget is not a promising policy, even less on the perspective. In the long run, it's also catastrophic, but that's why the only solution can be real decentralisation. Such a policy as it is today cannot ensure the growth of standards. It buys social peace, but without industrial growth, which is still below the 1990s, as is our gross product under the 1990s. It's all short of breath and Croatia so soon it won't come out of many problems. One solution for us is strengthening local self-government and regionalization. All this says the government needs help. There is no need to vote for rebalancing, but there is no need to lead in the country or politics as much as possible, even though some parameters in 2005 could make it a better year because at least from the budget there will be no one who needs to pay 22 billion kuna back this year. If I touched a few local problems that were first-class, I'd say Istrian, Rijeka, national problems. First, I'm really asking, there's no one here from the Justice Department to establish a trade court in Pazin. They're not big funds. Do it. The Istrian economy is most vital, help him. Such a decision was made on the establishment of the Trade Court as early as 1997. Second, KBC Rijeka, Pula General Hospital. I claim they're happy about, like, hospital centers that the state cares about as clinical hospital centers. The General Hospital must be run by the Istrian County. The county budget is 200 million kuna. The general hospital's financial plan for 2004 is 194.5 million kuna. How can someone with 200 million kunas take care of someone who has 1150 employees and needs 194.5 million kunas? That's impossible. And the revision of this action is simply necessary. The state agrees to increase the limit by 600 thousand kuna. So from 12.4 to 13 million kunas or 4.9%, which at the beginning eats the wages that have grown 4.3% this year. The General Hospital is seeking a limit of 15.5 million kuna, and 13 million kunas that have limits are only allowed for wages. In addition, at the beginning of the year, I believe that it is important by way of the bonds, the bond issued in the amount of 533 million kuna for the settlement of debts to state hospitals. 70 million kunas went to Split, 65 KBC Zagreb, 54 Sisters of Mercy here in Zagreb, 40 million kunas in Osijek, 32 million kunas in KBC Rijeka and so on. Those obligations are clearly met in Vukovar, Knin, Our Lady, I don't know Pakrac and so on. She was left out among other Pulas. The organisation of such a health organization is a disaster not only for health but for the country, but for patients who may have to pay for the participation to not even talk. The County of Istria in the Croatian budget for 2004 was represented by 28 million. With this 25.5 million kuna rebalance. In the gross product of the Republic of Croatia, Istria is participating by 12.13%. In the two-way inflow of the Republic of Croatia with 20%. And we're looking for the same 50 million kuna for Pula General Hospital. KBC Rijeka reportedly lacks 100 million kuna according to some statements. True, they've been increased by three million kunas. She was paid $32 million in debt at the beginning of the year. They are limited, however, due to lack of money search, operational requirements, patients are going the way of Rijeka. Money between clinical centres is considered to be the essence of this Budget unevenly distributed. It is fortunate that it is not cared for by the County of Primorje-Goranska, which also has 200 million budgets, should take care of some 3,000 and some employees, which each year needs nearly 500 million kuna. It's a disaster, it's not normal, and it's some state that once manages health care, but let it not bury health care. In my view, problem number 1 is immediately with the external debt of the Republic of Croatia on which this Budget does not, inadequately approach. Secondly, which is how, with the restitution of the pensioner's debt, this law doesn't talk about it, or the rebalancing I don't know about. Some seek HT shares, others sign a petition against the government for the sale of HT, the budget has no money, the IDS is asking to get rid of the bonds. Thirdly, these 2 billion kunas, as much as, in fact, 2.9 billion kunas, how much does the budget rise, it's preventative that a joke should be directed at building new prisons. Why? Because without them, it won't be possible for gentlemen to implement this road safety law. Already today, people would rather go to jail than pay the fine, and tomorrow most of them would appear to be going to jail because they won't be able to pay the fine. One word of a law like this, which we will discuss tomorrow, the day after tomorrow, is inconclusive. Fifth. I am pleased that there is Mr. Šetić here, who himself promised that the Ministry of Education and so on, among other things, to build a hall in Bala, will help the municipality with 3 or 4 million kuna. Don't take my word for it. However, there is no money in the budget or rebalancing, and that is where the IDS amendment is going because there has been a catatsrof, the school is on fire and it needs to be provided with teaching in it by the beginning of the next school year. On the other hand, those items of the elementary school in Vrsar have been downloaded by a million 950 thousand kuna plus 500 thousand kuna for the Hall in Bujam and at least that money that was taken down under the allegations of the county Istrian seclusion is directed to Bale. I believe there is a clear need to level the NOB fighters with those of the Homeland War. These years, former political prisoners who spent years in the casecases, Yugoslav case files, page 294 have been increased compensation for 70 million kunas and when the policies of prisoners who were also in Camps II will be. World War I, Ustasha camps equalize with this political one. We are clearly targeting 200 thousand kunas for the Višnjan starry one about Europe's two children and the world as well. and that it is time to specificise the costs of Croatian waters of ices, which costs some 3.5 or 3.7 billion kunas that are under discretion not to speak. And it's inadmissible for us and one kuna to cut off the drug-fighting funds, so don't save on it. To end, I'd say it doesn't matter that the rebalancing IDS, because it's a political document that can't be supported. It's always decision-making policies. However, Croatia should admit that years are moving away, and we do not live in 2004 nothing easier than in 2003, yet more and more is starting to look like a normal one as you would say, the country. The war is behind us it's good, God forbid it happens to anyone, in six months there will be a stable environment. The peace forces are leaving Bosnia, and so on. So in future political budgetary topics, they become dominant topics and I am convinced that more and more will be discussed in the future and how they will come to create money and only later on how to spend it. Therefore, if this is about the annual budget and can be seen through the fingers according to the 2005 issue, there will certainly be no symptom. And in 2004, and this is the result and budget of the 90s on here, it seems that it really all comes down to consumption, and there's little left for development that's not good. Because macro-economic projections aren't promising until 2007. Just mention enough that the foreign debt now participating in 75.7% of the gross social product will grow to 78%. Yes, the export debt that was in 2004. $27.5 billion counts by the end of the year. In 2007, it'll be 31 billion dollars, and so on and so forth. So be it or not, I would say Croatia from the moment today and tomorrow is the economy and so much the budget from year to year will get more and more weight. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u16833	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the respected representative Emil Tomaljnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u16834	Your Honor, Mr. President, I would like to correct the inaccuracies of my esteemed colleague Cain who said that this rebalancing is not following any government programme, and that all money goes into spending and buying social peace. It is simply not true, and for the sake of the public to be told, I will mention only one of the introductory data which is very important to me in terms of positive trends and the denial of this incorrect allegation, that only exports increased by 14.4% in the first 5 months of this year while imports increased by 4,14% measured, anal in kunas. Another incorrect correction, a colleague said, health is a disaster and the state is burying health through this budget or rebalancing. This is simply not true with this rebalancing, among other things and healthcare is consolidated, i.e. the introduction of financial discipline and into this area treated with budget rebalancing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u16835	On behalf of the HSPa Club, the respected representative, Acni Tadic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u16836	Your Honor, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Your Honor, Mr. Secretary. So here we are in July in front of the rebalancing, the rebalance of that budget that we adopted only three months ago. So what happened within three months is that we need to rebalance the budget so quickly. And on behalf of the club HSP, I also suspect that this is the last rebalancing in this year and that perhaps if we continue to work like this with the Croatian state budget that we may be welcomed by another rebalancing in September or October. So what really happened in these three months and could not have been foreseen in that first proposal of the Croatian expensive budget that we adopted at the beginning of the year. I would remind here that then Mr. Djapic, speaking on behalf of our club, warned the government not to rush to look at all the conjecture that we had enough time to adopt the budget because we had another month ahead of us. By the end of the temporary financing period. But there was a rush, and apparently it was quite wrong. BUT what is particularly worrying here is the fact that the budget is also growing with this rebalance and far away. So it is that there is a way to pump even more money into the expensive budget, but that does not mean that it was going to significantly reduce expenditure. But the budget with all of this continues to grow, despite being locked out of the guarantee card that I'm not taking it out here right now and I'm not reading what it says. However, public spending and tax pressure on Croatian citizens will be reduced. So the key reasons that are listed here in terms of this rebalancing are greater revenues than excise fees, greater income than dividends, which I'll talk about later. And, of course, higher incomes than all the other taxes, even the increase in income from the tax on income. What is particularly interesting here, however, is that this rebalancing includes expenditure relating to the modernisation of Croatian railways, which is exactly what the HSPA club insisted on earlier than 4 months so as not to give up the HZA modernisation programme. And so obviously it came to mind and decided to go to what he was still looking for in HSPe. Because if the haystacks are going to modernize HZ, then it is very questionable how HZE's 2006 anti-serious international competition to obtain concessions on domestic traffic. Also, if the hay goes to the modernisation of HZA, the survival of Đura Djakovic is at stake, from which 1326 wagons were ordered, or a whole new freight rolling stock. Therefore, Croatia did not actually have a lot of room for manoeuvres, and this is simply an ant to do. But what impresses me and my other colleagues at the club is the firmness and determination with which four months ago it was claimed that there was no need to work, that is, the firmness and determination with which it is now explained that this is exactly what has to be done. So not enough concept missing visions not enough continuity. The mains of this huge increase in budgets of about 2.8 billion kuna are dividends in most of HTa, which is about 300 million dollars. What really falls into a man's eyes is the fact that HT has been sold, so 51% of HT, which is now actually Deute Telekom, and HT mobile, is soon changing the name of the Temobile, so the brand name of Deute Telekom, that this 51% of HT has been sold for $1.3 billion and that this amount is achieved in approximately four years with such dividends. So we can calmly say that the sales of HT by these money with all the consequences that followed and which will only follow were in fact one of the biggest mistakes that had been made and the pre-governments. On the one hand, Em, Croatia has come into telecommunications slavery and dependence on one foreign multinational, and on the other hand, we have lost so much income for the Croatian state budget, and therefore we are not surprised by this kind of struggle of HT and VIPs to keep only two operators in mobile telephony, and therefore we are not surprised at the struggle of HT to remain as much as possible a monopoly in fixed telephony, but there is also a very clear attitude of HSP, the monopoly in Croatia cannot be, the only monopoly that is acceptable to us is a monopoly in the hands of the Croatian state, and if it is not, if it is not a monopoly in the hands of a multinational, then we will fight against it with all possible means. And that's why it's really amazing here that it's just now that you're seeing how much HT's revenue is actually being seen, that now it's clear how many countries with that act have lost, and that's why we suggest that in the next HT privatisation operation, it's not experimented with those 10% shares that should be sold to Deute Telekom rather than that as many shares as possible, except for, of course, the part that's intended for HT's defenders and employees, that as many of those shares should be rerouted to pension funds, because if there's really this much dividend from HT, then we're with this dividend without a problem in position to solve all the losses and all the losses in pension funds. Here is also the revenue from the concession for the third GSM mobile phone network of 289 million kuna, but knowing how fast our administration is, knowing that we still haven't formed a Telecommunications Agency Council, knowing that the summer, by my assessment and by the assessment of my colleagues from the HSP club, is difficult to see the third concession for mobile telephony before February-March next year, and therefore it is very difficult to expect this kind of income in this state budget. God let me be wrong about that, but knowing how things have been going so far, it's hard to expect things to be going any faster around here. Also here is expected to grow heavily in excise duties especially from tobacco and in general all taxes arising from a larger trade exchange. As far as tobacco is concerned, we have recently increased excise duties on tobacco products, but what is particularly strange here is the expectation of a strong increase in excise duties from oil derivatives. Until a month ago, we had a sharp rise in oil prices on the world market. In this regard, Slovenians were very flexible with their excise duties on oil derivatives just to prevent a sharp rise in oil derivatives prices from acting negatively on their domestic economy. We therefore expected in HSP that Croatia would have room for this shift and in our state budget, however, in the way it is foreseen here, that such a move is simply not possible in Croatia, that is, for an existing team in the Ministry of Finance, such a move of any change of excise duties on oil derivatives if there is a accumulated price of oil, is simply unimaginable. The entire income from excise duties and the growth of VAT that is expected is actually based on the rest and on a good tourist season. Here's the day before yesterday, I was driving towards Hvar, and I can tell that those pictures I saw along the road don't seem to be a good season. On the side of statistics that are being dragged from the government about some spectacular growth of the number of tourists for the first five months, but when a man sees along the road tens and dozens of owners of apartments with inscriptions "Apartments!, apartments!" then it is quite obvious that this year's season is not going as planned, and that is why we in HSP believe that this projection of the Croatian government is this much of the revenue from both VAT and excise duties in the second half of this year. What VAT must also be said in a loud and clear way is that elementary mathematics shows that VAT, 22% VAT, brings 30 billion kuna to the Croatian budget, and that it is clear to everyone what would mean a reduction of 2% of which the government gave up on good luck, and that you went to a reduction of 2% of VAT, the same loss in the budget, for example, by completely abolishing income tax in the Croatian state. I believe that this would make Croatian citizens more happy than the same 2% VAT reduction because the effects on the state budget would be exactly the same, 3 billion there or 3 billion there, but the fact is that in this case no one in Croatia would pay income tax. So much for your math, Mr. Shucker. And in the end, as regards expenditure, that is, the items of certain ministries, we find it extremely unreasonable to go to a reduction in the expenditures of the Ministry of Agriculture in circumstances while our agriculture is adapting to the European Union market, that it is extremely unreasonable if the true claims made by the Vice-President of the Government of Kosor on the problems in the supply stocks, to reduce the allocations for commodity stocks, we consider it to be the same if the emphasis of this country on crafts and small entrepreneurship that it is truly incredible that the Ministry of Economy spent only 10% of the planned funds for the promotion of crafts and small entrepreneurship in the first six months, that is, in all this, one of these results in a productive promise, one of the government representatives being fired in public communications, and it is a whole other realization. And lastly, I can't get the impression that neither I nor my colleagues in HSP that this is another one in a series of budgets written by the IMF dictatorship. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u16837	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of Bekavac Marijan.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u16838	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear counterpart Tadic argued that by adopting the budget, it was a mistake and that the government is making budget rebalances. And the truth is, if we know that the rebalancing is due to the fact that the deficit is 6.7% and not 4.5% as claimed by the former government, and if we know that 1% of the budget is about 3 billion kuna, then we know what business it took Minister Shuker to cover the budget rebalance this budget that was passed in the third month. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u16839	Correction of the incorrect allegation by the respected representative Emil Tomljanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u16840	Mr. President-in-Office, dear counterpart Tadic said the following, quote: There is no continuity in the projections of the budget related to the budget items of the Croatian Railways. That's absolutely not true. The government also has continuity in this segment, but implementing the principle of consolidation of fiscal policy and transparency of public finances. And the second allegation that I want to correct is that a colleague said, not to suggest that the season or this period is this tourist season good, I'll just do it for the public, repeat the data we had on occasion and hear, so the nights of tourists have been reported in the first five months of a 10% increase compared to the same period last year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u16841	Correction of the incorrect allegation by the respected representative Niko Rebic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u16842	Well, the esteemed representative claimed that an enormous increase in excise duties on oil derivatives is expected. In the government's explanation on page 3, we have exactly the opposite, so this is incorrect, we expect a reduction in the expected revenue from excise duties on oil derivatives of 517 million kuna, which is a small increase compared to last year but is actually a planned reduction for half a billion kuna. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u16843	On behalf of the HSLS DC Club, dear representative Ivan Chehok, please welcome.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u16844	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. I think the proposal to amend and supplement the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for this year plans state revenues and expenditures in a manner that, at this time, we can practically just record and analyse the results of the first 6 months or first part of the year, such sobriety can certainly help us plan not only fiscal incomes and fiscal policies for the next period, i.e. this period of mandate, but the overall economic and social flows in our country. When I mentioned that the document is cold and sober here, first of all, I think of the fact that unlike all previous years, we finally have a budget rebalancing which is important to reduce the deficit of the state budget and the budget rebalancing in which we increase the income side by nearly three billion kunas, or by 2.8 billion kuna, respectively, but we are not increasing the spending side by the same amount but only by 2.2 billion kuna. I think it's finally time to approach the adoption of such political financial and economic basic documents cold and sober, to realize that the state can't be a drunk coachman who will kill the horse on which it rides but that the state needs to realize first of all that it can spend that on the spending side it can be as much as we're all ready and able to earn. Unfortunately, Croatia continues to live above its possibilities, even though we have still reduced the deficit by this, and although the expenditure side is smaller than the increase in income, it is still seen in individual ministries and in certain items that we live above what we manage annually and not just annually. It is certainly an alarming signal for all of us, mainly for us, that in future guidelines and projections of fiscal policy, we realize that we need to further reduce the deficit that if we had to re-expose ourselves here to that debate we had about a month ago about not even being able to calculate the actual deficit of the state or that we used two different methodologies. It is certainly to welcome some encouraging statistics although, of course, they do not talk about how they really live, how they really rule what is really happening in the country but still after a long time, the fact is that employment has started to grow, we know that all previous years have reduced unemployment but that total employment has not grown as well as the fact that exports are finally beginning to grow, although they are modest percentages but the fact is that after a long time, exports are growing. Of course, it would be better if we could design and that we could see in perspective growth and gross domestic product and higher than we planned, however, I think that we agree that today, too, if you have had the opportunity to notice, the recommendations of the Competitiveness Council and I completely agree that it is a great delusion that only the state will start the economy, therefore, I think that this growth is not possible to expect if we still do not understand what I said introducing that we need a smaller deficit and that in Croatia we should finally start spending only what we managed to do or what we managed to earn during the year. I think it's a good thing that the spending side has more resources to promote employment and foster small and medium-sized entrepreneurship although, I think that there has already been talk about it, from analysis, it is evident that unfortunately from the total funds planned for the first half of this year a little more than 10% in this area has been spent, I think that so far it could have been spent a lot more and that just increasing expenditure for small and medium-sized enterprises does not mean that we will be able to make use of these funds over the year. Perhaps we should pay more attention and be more careful, consider also increasing resources for social care. We all know that the resources for social care in these economic and social circumstances are necessary, that they are necessary, but every year the increase in these funds is a thought to take us away from what we've been talking about, so we're spending just what we can do to hurt. I think it is also good that subsidies or the cost of paying off Croatian railways in one place are recorded now, it would be best if it had already managed to operate the State Treasury in such a way that we can use it more rationally and most importantly cold and analytically able to directly monitor the exact expenditures, this is how it really happened that in some ministries it was overrun in some positions and in some accounts because the state had over 20 accounts on some others that practically did not spend the funds until the end. So I think the ministry, and I call on the Ministry of Finance that as far as possible before the State Treasury begins to function so that we as representatives would have a much clearer picture. Unfortunately, we spoke as the HSLS and DC Club about when we were making the budget, we cannot be satisfied with the fact that despite the fact that we will increase excise duties, we will not reach that amount, or the amount of excise duties we have practically designed at the beginning of the year. Unfortunately, it is obvious that the inspection and supervisory instruments in this country are still not working well, do not work well and that this, this bribery in the collection of excise duties, despite the fact that we have made a decision to increase excise duties, will practically not bring new revenues to the state budget. We need to be aware that most of the countries that are now called the social states and which are trying in some way to balance social expenditure and economic opportunities of the state, such as the Scandinavian State, are precisely the largest revenues collected in excise duties or in other forms of parapores. So I can only mention, for example, Norway where excise duties on alcoholic beverages, cars are so high that practically most of the income spent on social care, on the educational needs of the population, comes from these excise duties. In the country, and we've already talked about it, where you drink it or eat it and, unfortunately, get drunk often, part of people's literature and folk stories that discuss how it should be discussed or how we're going to reduce the number of accidents on roads that are caused by alcoholism. I think that the increase in excise duties both on alcohol and on cigarettes and on oil derivatives is certainly something that can bring income and certainly something that makes sense in these circumstances, in this kind of fiscal policy. I don't think it's good that in this form of budget they're not clearly shown or we can't see the effects of privatisation until the end. In many areas in many industrial and economic sectors, it seems, from tourism further, that privatisation has stopped or continued slowly. It has stopped already during the term of office or during the last term of office of the last government and it would be good if we had at least a projection of such revenues. I think they're too modest, if what the government has announced is true that they're going to start privatizing and that according to some weather plan and the dynamics the government has made, they're going to sell the very part of the government's portfolio that's ready for it and that might have already been sold. Therefore, I think it would be good to be informed of this and to know what we can expect from it. All in all, HSLS and DC will support the Rebalancing Proposal this year's budget. We hope, therefore, that next year we will be able to discuss the system of the State Treasury next year, that we will have a much clearer picture and that this beginning of the struggle will be caught by the state deficit, in fact the beginning of a different way of financial management in the Republic of Croatia in which only what we succeed and earn will really be spent.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u16845	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS-PGS Club, Honored Representative Radimir Cacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u16846	Dear Mr. President of the Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. We all probably remember that "Car is naked" fairy tale. This reminds me also of this retrospective of Croatian film, yesterday night there was a movie "Car is naked", and every day reminds me of this proposal for decisions under HDZ law in this House. This rebalancing is one of these very high-quality and powerful beams of light at all that we had the opportunity to listen to in the election campaign, and everything we had the opportunity to listen to here by the Prime Minister and the ruling coalition's representatives. So, not just HDZ, here's HSLS today and there will be some more, pensioners etc. All the political parolees, all the political stories, all the words always end up in something quite legible, recognizable and measurable everywhere in the world called the budget. In numbers, in items, in clones, these things can be really obvious in the end. What I've learned in politics is that there's nothing more terrible for a generalist than a specific date, a specific number, it's a political caste nightmare. Of course, the paradigm was this farce with the open highway where we had, as you know, a specific length, a specific date, a specific task, the same builders, the only government was something different. The task was much smaller, of course, only 15% had to be completed, but good. Anything's possible. So, if it wasn't tragic, it would be funny. Things like this, when things are clear and measurable, and the results don't reveal any power anywhere, and politicians of course don't like it. One rule you all know about is that everyone progresses to the level of their incompetence. I must say, this government has greatly exceeded its level. To repeat some of the basics of the budget, I mean it like that for little children. Never and nowhere can money be promised on all sides, buying time, partners and citizens, every day of survival in power, while at the same time claiming to reduce debts, reduce taxes, and even when it is firmly decided to stop all development projects. Not our own, of course, because we don't even have our own, no. We're talking about the development projects we inherited. Of course it strongly drives Croatia into reverse. It's nothing new. No longer needs to be said in particular, I am sure that so far, several times all of those tax cuts, VAT or corresponding charges, fees, excise duties, gasoline have been underlined. We remember those big posters from the election campaign. I think he picked it up yesterday, I don't know, for the sixth time, seventh time, I'm sorry. For the seventh time... Okay, well, it doesn't matter now. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Of course all those stories end up as expected. About increasing the burden for Croatian citizens through these charges by 20 to 30%. The stories of increasing the efficiency of tax collection as billions will be found in increased efficiency, and all said by the minister seems to me a few minutes ago. I think there's a 2.3% increase in payment, income compared to last year's six months. So less than our inflations are economically racial, so efficiency has fallen. We've dropped efficiency. Not only did it fall, but at the same time we contribute to the future ineffectiveness of the bill by introducing the Budget Act in Article 40, we indirectly re-integrated the discretionary right of the Minister and the Government to extend payment to whoever they want. Which we barely canceled last year. The last government finally got the strength to abolish that sweet right. This government reintroduces him. So efficiency will fall again and further. Now, who's gonna be given a continuance and who won't? Listen, looking at our recent representative's colleagues tearing down his houses the same ones that were his ministers and mayors when he was building them, but then he was a member of the HDZ, now he's not. And I can guess who they're going to go for and who they won't. So discretionary rights are dangerous. Discretionary rights are dangerous, especially when it comes to taxes. I'd like something on how to charge the budget. The budget will be filled with two-thirds, one billion 830 million additional killings of development. We're going to take the dividend, we're going to take the profits from the part that's primarily about HT, and if that's all too bad that we're going to prevent investment in development, of course information is a key topic, of course the speed of data flow is a key topic. Of course investment, if anywhere in this area is necessary, no one is slow about it, no one in this House has ever said one word against information. And that's exactly the means. That's the means. But are they all? No, guys, it's only half. Because we're only 49% owners, that this is 49% dividend. The other half, because of course business is not caritas, the other half I'll take Deute Telecom. Because when the state of Croatia takes half of its development projects, the other owner takes its half. Well, it's a normal thing. and Croatia is left without 4 billion investments in IT and network flow speed. That's interesting. And you know what else is stupid about that thing? That about two-thirds of the amount we get is lost in taxes and contributions that could help from development projects, which would be invested, because they are naturally paid taxes and contributions, for those who work, for the goods they buy. So, the benefit of almost nothing, the damage enormous. So who's crazy about it? So where's common sense? Are we in such a tragic situation, are we then? Shall we cut the last remnants of development? That's really sad. Now. After that I have to say I didn't understand until the end maybe I'm here, this part is completely clear to me, but this other one may not be quite clear to me. It says that through concession fees, it's going to jump from 90 to 710 million, and we had a half-year plan of 21.6, and we're going to end the year with 168.9. Look, I mean, I'm not really that naive and so short in economy and business, it might seem convincing to me, but maybe something about that... The minister will probably explain what's behind it. [[the speaker is away from the microphone, you can't hear]] What? Something might be hiding behind it. Okay. Anyway, not well, gentlemen, all right. That's interesting to hear. After all, the serious money of 700 million kuna is not a small amount of money anywhere in the world, so neither is it in this country. Where are we going with the money? Look, with the money we go to consumption only in consumption, only to buy votes and coalitions, and to ruin this country's future and certainly in... a billion and 200 million kunas, so it shouldn't be long. I was talking about 3.3 here, I said exactly the same amount, read the stenogram, I said that we would need so much general to maintain the system, not to develop, to maintain the system, I said I'd remind you and I'll remind you of when we're going to do rebalancing, read in the stenogram. I said at the end of the year, I screwed up, wrong, not true, here's just three months passed I shouldn't have. It might be at the end of the year. Of course, I've been attacked by everyone who's arrived that it's not true, that there's no need, that the funds are enough, and now we can see that the wages can't even be paid, that the depreciation can't be maintained, that the system can't work at all without that money, because that's just the way it is. And now watch out, some know it, and some learn on the skin of these citizens. And that's what's terribly dangerous. That's what's hard to endure. But that's how it is, what we can do. That's too bad. It's a lot of expenses. We all pay for it. But the facts are like that. Of course, it's neither the first nor the last thing. We talked about VAT, you said it wasn't true. I was saying go to a public tender for Sunny Hvar, no, no, it's the best call for friends, so we'll be in four eyes. Now I hear that the very surprised directors of the Croatian Fund are with huge interest and fantastic offers, so I can't believe it, so who knew? Well, it's funny that they're much better offers when there's 7, than when there's one. Well, that really shocks me. Is that possible, gentlemen? Is that news? Now move on, no. Unfortunately, I have to say, I think there will be more changes. Only the same amount, or slightly smaller, is predicted by the Ministry of Defence, and 60% has already been spent. We don't have any more sweares for the pensioners, because the new law provides that the old one will get rid of, and not anything in the budget, through the promise that it will be over the stocks. You know that story, I sold the turkey for a million kuna. So how? - I got two chickens for five hundred thousand, no. So are the pensioners, no. That shares worth the state would issue bonds and guarantee payment. When he doesn't know whether they're worth anything or not, and he's calculated that they'll sell the most valuable for 4 billion kuna, that's what it says in your papers. Then it's done through the fund, it's only the representatives of the pensioners can swallow and no one else can. But the pensioners don't. Let's see where we're going, gentlemen. That's where we're going, gentlemen, according to your budget. That's what I'm saying to Councilman Chehok. Here it was in 2003, this is the fourth public debt, this is the fifth, sixth and seventh. That, gentlemen. Foreign debt, these gentlemen. That's what you've been attacking us for. Look, development projects nowhere, foreign debt in the sky. It's all your plates, your numbers, but I turned them into plates. Foreign debt versus GDP are absolute numbers, this is a gross social product. So it can't be said as absolute growth, but that's why the social product is growing, so then, no, no, it's growing and relatively. Gentlemen, there are no development projects, the debt is growing heavily and the deficit stories, of course, leave for another time. Gentlemen, there will be more, of course, highways we can only dream of. The Dubrovnik story remains only a story, with the HDZ government to Dubrovnik we won't come. We'll only get to Dubrovnik with another government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u16847	I shall inform you that Article 207(2) is in accordance with Article 207(2). The Rules of Procedure have expired time to apply for a 10-minute hearing. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the respected representative Krunoslav Markovnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u16848	Mr. President, Mr. Minister! Well, here's a series of incorrect and offensive corrections, or quotes, so I guess the corrections should be like that, too, that the results are nowhere, farces with highway openings and the like. Finally, your construction, Mr. Cacic, is questionable quality, mostly without respect for the law, and I am extremely happy that this building was not built for your mandate because it would always feel like we're going to slip to Ilica.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u16849	Emil Tomljanovic, a respected advocate for correcting the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u16850	Mr. President, I'd like to correct two incorrect allegations of an esteemed colleague of Chacic's. The first that the government has increased by 20% to 30% by the proposed rebalance of the budget. It's simply not true, you said that and especially not compared to your projection and analysis of tax revenues. That's one thing. Secondly, it is incorrect that this budget or budget rebalance only points to consumption, and I will quote you what you have said and ruining the future of this country. That's absolutely not true. There are a lot of developmental elements particularly related to the financing of the Development and Employment Fund and I think it is inappropriate to speak for this speaker about the future of this country in this context. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u16851	Correction of the incorrect allegations by the respected representative Kajo Bucan.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u16852	Mr. President, I'm correcting Mr. Cacic's incorrect claim. Everyone progresses to the level of their incompetence. If that were true, Mr. Representative, on November 23rd, you would not have been promoted from the post of minister in the ruling coalition as parliament's representative in the opposition.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u16853	Correction of the incorrect allegation by the respected representative Niko Rebic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u16854	Well, I would actually like to remind the Croatian public that Mr. Cacic has just left you and your coalition government to inherit the most in-debted country a transitional with more than 25 billion debts and is not true...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u16855	Correction of the quote, Mr. Rebic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u16856	Well, it's not true that it's an inefficient government. It is a responsible government that will strike the foundations for a healthy budget in the coming years. That's right.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u16857	Thank you. On behalf of the HSS Club, respected representative Bozidar Pankretic. And before that, Minister Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u16858	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament! And I'm really glad that finally in this assembly it was discovered that the Emperor is naked, which is that there are so many unpaid bills left from the former government. In the opening part, when I explained the draft budget rebalancing, I didn't want to look back on 2003 because there were a lot of speeches here, but I have to react to a number of unargumented accusations and difficult words as a representative of the government. First of all, I have to remind this tall home that someone took it for the right to spend far more than it belongs to him and that is to confirm that these unpaid bills were paid in the first six months of this year. Nekko took it as a right to increase the financial plan of the Croatian highways by a billion and 700 million kuna when he was on the board of directors, when he came to the government he realized that this should go to the Croatian Parliament and that it should be adopted by the Croatian Parliament and he was disbanded and it could not be legalised. I'd like you to take an hour so it doesn't turn out that I am, I mean, it could be anything. It is of great value to me that ordinary ministers can't afford such a thing. So the government confirmed this, but not as an increase in income and expenditure, but as a change in the construction plan, one conclusion remains that this will be settled from the 2004 budget, and it's all right that there are times when contracts are concluded, when paid, it all stands. However, it is also defined as calculating the deficit but it is also very interesting that the 840 million should be paid in the first six months. So there's no question that highways should be built, though. God forbid there are projects behind every government that anyone else will open. However, it is also very interesting to have a very special way of funding but not to go through the budget again but beyond the budget, so in some future times it will be a deficit for someone so let them worry about how it will be and that is HBOR financing, through HBOR rebuilding apartments. By all laws, it should have been the expenditure of the current year and there are no regulations that can say that this loan should not have been recorded the year of expenditure. Credit at the time when the expenses are raised is not credit. The expenditure is the jobs paid for with that loan, with that loan debt. It's budget spending. Reimbursement is not an expense. It is managed through the financing account and interest is the expenditure of the budget and, in 2002, 2003 and, in fact, in 2001, 2002, a billion and 200 million kunas spent for which no one in this assembly knew and so of course needed to do so. And that's how public finances should be run. Then the deficit won't be 6-7%, it'll be 3 or 4 or whatever it takes. So that's how this government won't agree to do it that way. So, I repeat, the loan always pulls executives and it's the cost of that year when it pulls back. You've withdrawn nearly two years of nearly a billion and 200 million loans, not registered on the spending side. They were discussed not only by this Croatian Parliament but by someone else, but also by the fact that the accounts have to be paid by this government. Those 800 and those 500 plus 200 million 2001 loans, that's a billion and 500 million that burdens this government. The government also regulated the decision last year that the Ministry of Finance is in charge of HAC's domestic market for 760 million kuna with the obligation to transfer those 760 million kuna to the HAC account by 20 November. Unfortunately, by November 20, however, only 200 million kunas were transferred, 360 million kuna was transferred to the HAC last day of last year when the virtually complete inflow to the state, at the expense of the state treasury, was transferred to the HAC. However, there are 230 million kunas left to be transferred to the budget burden this year. And it wouldn't be disputed if that 230 million remained on the jury account they would have transferred, but that 230 million was spent on something else, but the government made a decision to put the 230 million states in charge of the HAC account. And it's also probably some kind of neat and transparent policy. It is very interesting when a state audit determines certain irregularities, then it is not the merits of ministers, but the merits of the referents. And that's where you have to admit the mistake. But that's not done. Foreign debt has increased by $15 billion in two years. No circular problem has been solved by this country and public debt has increased by $15 billion, $15 billion increased public debt in 2002 and 2003. Why are some benifits paid for pre-worked work? What are the economic effects, will the economic effect for some kind of... which will be executed in the 12th month so that it can start 20 million etc., I don't want to discuss it, it's likely someone else will talk about it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But it's also interesting to say that there are no results. All results, macroeconomic indicators, for the first 5 months from the end of 2003 are on the rise. Unfortunately, in 2003, she had downward indicators and fortunately these indicators stopped in February of this year, and they went slowly up, which is what no one can dispute. The price of gasoline, yes, probably Prime Minister Sanader and all of us in the government blame that the price of oil derivatives on the Mediterranean market is higher than it's ever been in history. And therefore, the basic reason for the increase in the price of petroleum products. And you know very well why the prices of oil derivatives have increased in the past. The second thing, when we talk about the efficiency of the bill, the payment of revenues for the first 6 months is 6% higher than in 2003 for the first 6 months. That's an orderly indicator. The other thing, payment to the wars, yes, I know that it tickles you, but this government hasn't issued another payment of the war's taxes. Not one. Why? Because we have made it clear that there must be criteria for this if someone is paid a return rather than given as it is to someone else. But it's very interesting, I like to go back to that Law on Honorable and Unpaid Claims because some of these very interesting actions have been done here. It is very interesting that 94 companies that are privatised under the system of 1 kuna or something small and make commitments were later found in the law of maturity and unpaid claims. What was the interest of the State to sell a company for one kuna then, later, by law, forgive him for some things to pay for the state. When it was said here that such companies had to be excluded from it, then they found themselves... However, 94 companies with no small amount of obligations to the state were included in the Law on Achieved and Unpaid Claims. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It'll be very interesting to see who bought them. Yes, the highway is 15 or 20 days late, but the Dubrovnikers have been waiting for school and home for 5.6 years. As for the HT dividend. First, HT dividends withdrawing dividends will not affect development at all, it is a certificate from HT. Another thing, which is to keep the dividend on the gyro budget for three years and that the state has no use for it. I remember that bridge loan of 530 million and 300 million interest that went like this. We were also convinced that the privatisation model was not good, that a new one would be invented, in the end the effect financially was far worse than what could have been obtained immediately, but therefore someone paid 300 million kuna on a bridge loan. And in the end, since my time is running out, there will be more opportunities to talk, for an answer. Unfortunately, a series of charges without the arguments and the Sunny Hvar. Sunny Hvar failed to agree on a coalition policy, so it was meant to agree on Sunny Hvar and Kutjevo, so it didn't work out, so it happened by what happened. However, one new model of the privatisation method obviously bothers you because you failed to remember it.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u16859	Correction of the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Radimir Cacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u16860	Thank you very much. Here, to start with this last one, I would remind you that I just remembered that model you're working on, that I was the first to, if I had done it first in my ministry, to betray something that was a complete stranger to us, the bonds of the Ministry of Public Works for the shares that were paid and sold through the stock market. Well, you know that, so look at the quotation if you didn't notice it as a finance minister then notice now that there are bonds that we, the securities that we have issued. So, this model goes on now, and it's good to keep going, it's smart to keep going. Securities are of course a good way and the stock market is a good way. As to whether Prime Minister Sanader is guilty, of course today is his fault. As neither Prime Minister Racan nor Minister Cacic was then to collect oil, but he is guilty of increasing his burdens parallelly when a certain limit of endurance is crossed, so he is guilty. As far as I'm concerned.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u16861	Thank you very much, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u16862	That's all.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u16863	Let's welcome the students from Petrinja who follow our work at the gallery. Welcome! And on behalf of the HSS Club, the debate will be shared by a respected representative of Pecek and a respected representative of Pankretic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u16864	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary, for your service. I would also like to say that I have carefully read all 655 pages of this Budget Proposal and to some positions as many times as I have come back. One idea for me was to try to figure out how much this budget rebalance is preparing to implement the principle of fiscal policy that the Government of the Republic of Croatia allegedly advocates in the rebalancing of this Budget. I am absolutely sure that we will manage to maintain low inflation, a stable course, I am in doubt whether we will keep the country's deficit below 3% of GDP and public debt below 60%, external debt 80%. However, I am absolutely certain that we will not be able to maintain continued economic growth because simply the measures for the economy here do not exist, the growth of the economy and any incentive for it are exclusively at the level of principle. Of course, the budget continues through this rebalancing only favours great social rights. We at HSS are also for a sensitive country, however, which will take care of higher rates of GDP growth, which will take care of employment and exports as only a new job can create a new value and thus grow social gross product. I've shared my thoughts on the budget through several groups. The first is the action “Let’s fill the state budget”. She's been very successful. Two billion and 820 million kunas have increased the budget. Of course, by withdrawing the dividend, by introducing new excise duties on cigarettes, on cars and in the future, we will also increase the budget through the new Transport Act, but we are not talking about 400 to 500 million kuna here yet. The second group is the action “Consistent in Inconsistencies”. As far as the government is concerned, because this is really a phenomenon that there's still no discharge here, there's no discharge, there's no citizens, the VAT seems to have been delayed forever to cut the rate. The privatisation of the topic has already opened, however, those moves that we have made or heard have been pulled around "Sun Hvar", around Valpov and finally around Belje means that we cannot expect foreign investment in Croatia. How will we get 4 billion kunas in Croatia if our local self-government wants to control such companies as we privatise. So who's going to buy one White where 25.01% privatize politics. However, at least here the government has received unequivocal instructions on how to go in this direction. There is also the section “People of Mines Is It Possible”, and in this section I have set two things: investment in road traffic security reduces the position in the budget. Here's the news of car accidents every day, but it's possible. This is the government that suggested that we reduce that position in the budget. In this group you would also classify “My peoples whether this is possible” and tourism. We foresee smaller investments to subsidise the organised arrival of tourists as of course the season is phenomenal for us so that we do not need to support tourism in Croatia. A very interesting feature of the winner in the Budget and the losers. I think the long-term winner of this bill is gone. A loser could be quite a number. Of course the biggest loser is the economy. I've already said no economic recovery, no support, reduced opposition to investment in research and development, science, fiscally the worst past agriculture at absolute cost. The great losers are units of local self-government, cities and municipalities so that I will advise my mayor and Mayor Virovitica not to go lobbying here for funds from the State budget in Zagreb because they cost more travel expenses than they get from the Budget. The biggest loser is the calculation, and the reader calculates the one who actually wants to see what's going on here. Because he's so untransparent that we have in the Budget the phenomenon of the rest. So we have other expenses for employees, other services, other unremarked expenditures, extraordinary expenditures and so on. The number of phenomena left is a billion 762 million 783 kuna. These are obviously unknown addresses in the budget. Also in the section of the losers in the Budget, we can put pensioners. I think they're actually the biggest losers and I'm surprised they don't recognize it. Over the past four years, 13 billion cash has been paid back for outstanding pensions. In this year alone through the rebalancing budget we increase by 2 billion and 800 million kuna, but for the pensioners we still have nothing. They're left with carrots on the stick. They have another year for the Fund Act, one year for the calculation of pensions, and probably in, after that, the calculation and the new law will come and new parliamentary elections so that I suggest they be very good with the current opposition for two reasons because it will come at the time of the election and the other reason is because they will get some cash instead of carrots on the stick. The section is interesting, both worse and lower, or the budget distribution of the north and south, which I, as a patriot local, come from Slavonia and Podravina, criticise especially because I listened to the minister's statements that we expect significantly less investment in infrastructure from next year and beyond. In this budget for river shipping, we reduce, for the Sava and the Danube commission, we reduce the safety of inland navigation, we reduce the development of inland water shipping, we reduce the regulation of waterways, we reduce irrigation. Obviously, the area of the Pannonian Sea will not have capital investments. In the second sea, investment is much bigger. Of course, the clinical hospital in Osijek a million kunas less, of course, in Vukovar County the court million kunas less and not to count. I could count those positions a lot from this budget. We still have the most to die in Slavonia on bad roads where the beatings of Romanian and Bulgarian trucks. Obviously from the infrastructure nothing. The drinking water was nothing, and the irrigation was not so, so we will slowly continue to get used to production without irrigation. It is an interesting section “Little is big”. Someone's mentioned it here before. The Ministry of Economy has taken over the sector of crafts and small entrepreneurship and new projects have either been transferred or formed here. We have 45 projects. In the first six months, 39 projects have not been spent. We didn't give Kuna credit for entrepreneurship, for entrepreneurship zones, incubators, centres, for the development of cooperatives, vocational schools, craft workshops, the promotion of old crafts is simply not singled out. The execution, someone has already mentioned, is 10.75%, but only because we have an execution at a salary expenditure of over 45%, and then it's some average that's increased over 10%. And for the end of the section “There is very little”. And in any case, it's a great cost of health care. But we as citizens will give little help so that they can be even bigger. Obviously, 5 kunas per recipe are waiting for us in the next period. For a larger budget under this section will also be a further small help for citizens because we cannot expect anything more quality in terms of discharge than we are expected by property taxes, we are expected obviously by old taxes in the economy and without disbursement and contributions, pension and health. In the section we can also put great ambitions of the budget, and small possibilities of achieving the objectives. In any case, we've defined anchors for consumption in the long term. We've given up the even economic development of the region, and what's already said, and it's called Telecom's profit, we've spent it. We've increased our taxes, we've increased our contributions, we've given up the VAT, and it's exactly somewhere at an absolute level, as it's been claimed so far that the former government has continued its new government so that it has to wrestling with it. So the excuse goes away that the former government has left a new one in big trouble. Because according to my calculations, here's six months' worth of crochet that's given up discharging both citizens and citizens, and through these taxes and contributions, it's pretty much out of date if HTA dividends are added. And if, of course, it is said once again that the rulebook was not passed on to the use of impluss in HTU and could still expect a large dividend we can still have large tephones when using especially mobile networks. There's no such thing as a major deficit anymore. There's no such thing as an excuse. And given the time and reminder of the club presidents, please give Mr Pankretić a day. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u16865	Thank you very much. There's nothing left. We have several corrections to my colleague Pankretić's incorrect allegations. Here you go. Dear Representative Emil Tomljanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u16866	Mr. President, he would correct the incorrect allegations of an esteemed representative, who said that the measures for the economy do not exist in the rebalancing or in the current budget, which is incorrect. And the budget and budget rebalance creates a micro and economical cruise precisely for the development of all segments of the economy. And secondly, I would like to correct the alleged concrete quote of an esteemed colleague who says that the great losers by the rebalance of this budget are cities and municipalities. For the sake of the public, I want to point out that the units of local self-government, which are only reduced by a single percentage notion of the possibility of real borrowing, therefore borrowing. Which with the development of particularly uniform development of local units of local self-government, so on the territory of the entire Croatian aposluton has nothing to do with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u16867	Correction of the incorrect allegation of the respected representative Ivana Sučec Trakostenec.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u16868	That I will correct the same two incorrect allegations of Mr. Doe's representative. The first is that we have increased taxes and contributions. Therefore, we did not increase any contributions but increased economic activity and increased employment increased the number of those paying the same rate of contribution, so fortunately the inflow into the budget is slightly higher. And I would, of course, correct the same allegation that is entirely incorrect if the municipal losers had just read the report of the Committee on Local and Self-Government would have read the sentence, that the proposed changes and additions to the state budget of the Republic of Croatia for this year did not result in a reduction in the resources allocated to the functioning of units of local and regional self-government. For certain municipalities and cities, an increase in the amount of funds is already being proposed within the general state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u16869	Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, Honorable Representative Pecek.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u16870	Thank you very much. Mr. President, I'm surprised that you're allowing this correction because it's absolutely certain that in the budget rebalancing of the absolute amount, the possibility of transfer to the counties, municipalities and cities has been reduced. It's perfectly safe and you have colleagues and colleagues in the budget. You're correcting it incorrectly. And secondly, if you consider the possibility of reducing the city's and municipality's duties from three to two percent to jet about one percent difference, you're wrong. It's basic mathematical operations, it's a lot more that's over 30%.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u16871	Comrade Pacek, this isn't about the conduct of the Rules of Procedure. You made one claim, which the other representative challenged as incorrect. Is your claim correct, is the correction of your claim incorrect it's things to you and it's a matter and advocates. But it's not about hurting the Rules of Procedure. And please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u16872	He can't correct the exact quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u16873	It's not. Well, that's what you think is true, she thinks it's incorrect.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u16874	It's in the budget. The Minister knows that. Ask him.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u16875	Dear Representative Niko Rebic. Correction of an incorrect allegation.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u16876	Well, my colleague Pecek incorrectly claimed that the biggest losers were retired. My colleague, Pacek, has a debt to the pensioners throughout the last three governments. The two previous ones didn't do anything, nor did they ever seriously think about paying back that debt. And this is the first government that took this hot potato into its hands, and it wants to get rid of it seriously and responsibly, and I hope that with this fund, it will be a quality solution in one satisfactory way.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u16877	Dear Representative Markovanovic. Correction of an incorrect allegation.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u16878	Mr. President, it is incorrect that Mr. Pecek is that the local self-government of this rebalancing and this budget is a loser. The loser is by adopting a whole series of measures of the coalition government. First increase in the untaxable base minus. DRugo acknowledges everything and everything in expenditure and for profit minus. Third all by putting together the obligations of different people not to speak social, health, schooling minus. And the third before the elections with an unreal promise of perks to everything and everything that's obvious and how through this huge neck tax where we're terriblely losing it.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u16879	Re-infringement of the Rules of Procedure, Agent Pecek.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u16880	Your Honor, Mr. President, I also raised when Mr. Rebic was exhibiting. You're letting him correct my exact allegations again. I said that the former government returned in cash to pensioners 13 billion and 500 million kuna, which is absolutely correct. Which is absolutely correct. And he said she didn't return anything. Yes, it is quite true that some governments created the debt that occurred in the period until 89. That's what it says in the materials prepared by the Ministry of Finance. And that's true, I commend the Ministry for so confirming. And again back now, let me correct this opinion of Mr. Markovanovic on local self-government.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u16881	I'm sorry, I can't let you go any further. 'Cause it's not about you again, and you're saying it's about hurting the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u16882	This is another injury.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u16883	You made a certain factual claim. The second representative contests this fact-finding claim through the insituation of correcting the incorrect allegations as incorrect. I cannot arbitration and so assess whether your claim is correct or incorrect. I can't do that. And please stick to the fact that this is about the conduct of the Rules of Procedure, you can't stand out right now, I'm going to correct your opinion right now.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u16884	No, I suppose Mr. President, that you are like me all 655 pages and of course you know that colleagues are deliberately correcting my exact allegations. Because I did when I was talking.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u16885	You can't be a colleague. Excuse me, colleague Pacek. You're going back to correcting your exact allegations. Is your quote correct or incorrect? I can't judge. And it's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u16886	Well, he might know because it's in the budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u16887	I can't. I don't value it. Thank you very much. This is not a matter of breach of the Rules of Procedure, and please do not go to any further damages to the Rules of Procedure, because I will really have to apply that provision of the Rules of Procedure which says that the agent is given a warning if he reports a breach of the Rules of Procedure and that is not the case.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u16888	All right, here's another sentence, even if they give me a warning.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u16889	Thank you very much. I'm sorry, I can't take it anymore. I can't take it anymore.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u16890	I have to finish thinking, so don't do me.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u16891	Well, it's not about hurting the Rules of Procedure, for God's sake. Dear Representative Markovanovic. A fellow Lonchar injured the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u16892	Mr. President, you've injured Article 209. Also that article has hurt because of everyone here, I'll only read the first part. A representative who wishes to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure shall be given the floor as soon as this request has been made. The speaker’s speech cannot last longer than one minute, and the representative must immediately state the article of the Rules of Procedure on whose injury he is referring. That's not what the MP said, you didn't warn him anyway, and the turn would have been if the MP had asked his neighbor who was sitting next to him how it was done, so he would have told him right away and sent...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u16893	Thank you very much. I didn't hurt my friend Lončar. I warned Agent Pecek that he had not reported under the firm's correction of an incorrect allegations. I ask the MPs not to expect no more application of the Rules of Procedure. Honorable representative Branimir Pasecky, correction of an incorrect allegation.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u16894	Mr. President, it is incorrect that Mr. Pecek's statement that this rebalancing is an inequality of the north and south. I can't accept that, but it also means damage to the north, but I think that means involving HSS in the movement and creating antagonism between the north and the south.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u16895	I'd like an honorary representative, Tomcic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u16896	Mr. President, I think a very ugly and unspeakable claim has been made in this House, that the HSS has become involved in the movement for antagonism between the north and the south. It is a dissipation of hatred between the Croatian regions, it is an attempt to divide the north and south. You didn't respond to that, you owe Mr. Representative a warning at least. I'm looking for a 15-minute break on behalf of the club to discuss this situation.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u16897	He's a friend of Tomiche's.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u16898	I asked for a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u16899	Yes, you asked for a break. If the representative said that the damage to the east from the north and his assessment would qualify. I'll give you a break of 10 minutes. And please colleagues and colleagues, I would ask all club presidents to come to my office at 1400 hours to agree on one thing, and that is whether we will succeed in this agenda within the regular session, on the pace of work, and on the number of people already registered on this subject, as the constitutional time for a regular session expires Thursday, to consider rationalising the work of the Parliament in this section, and then I will have to assess whether it will be necessary to convene an extraordinary session on Friday, Saturday and Sunday. I'm setting up a 15-minute break for the House of Representatives Club. 15 minutes. Honorable representative Tomcic, president of the HSS Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u16901	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. The HSS Club sought a break for a truly stupid attack on HSS, against the HSS Club by Mr. Passeg Representative, who accused the HSS Club of creating animosity between the north and south. I don't think such heavy accusations have been made so far in this House. This is a low political blow, and this is a bit of a matter of the political honor of Mr. Paseksky. It is, Mr. President, simply the abuse of the institute of correcting an incorrect quote and, in fact, the fact that Agent Pecek has said, that today a very frequent institute of correcting an incorrect quote is deliberately used, but also allows from the chair, that false data is being provided whether they are accurate or incorrect. They actually serve to create a public opinion, that the public doesn't really know what we're talking about here very often. We must once identify ourselves, whether what is written in the materials that come to this Assembly is accurate or incorrect. If it is incorrect, then it is necessary to correct the person who gave the material, therefore, to correct the Government rather than correct the advocates who advocate that what it says is true. The public simply has the right to know what we're talking about here and has to know what's true and what's incorrect. Obviously, it is a business dispute over Articles 208 and 209 of our Rules of Procedure, and therefore allow me to interpret, or quote only one part of Article 208, which says that "a representative can get a word when he wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure, when he wants to correct the claim he holds incorrect". Which he thinks is incorrect. Well, obviously, you, Mr. President, often interpret it in a way that the MP has the right to say whatever he wants and to correct whatever he wants. No matter what the materials official for this session say. I simply hold that what is written in the government's materials cannot be corrected. If that's how it's supposed to be fixed by the government, then we need to open up a debate here, which is true, and what's incorrect. I'll just give you two examples. Pecek was deafened by several corrections to an incorrect allegation because he said there was a disproportionate investment in regions between the north and the south. It's in the materials of this budget rebalance. It's just his finding. Therefore, the HSS to accuse that some kind of animosity between the north and the south is indeed deplaced, dishonestly, politically low because we have only interpreted what it says in the rebalancing of the state budget. I personally believe that the chairman in this regard must not allow such allegations to be corrected as incorrect or simply to conclude that the government has written something incorrect. The second example speaks of the inability to borrow units of local self-government. It is completely incorrect to interpret that this possibility of borrowing units of local self-government is reduced by 1%. Gentlemen, it's down 33.33%. Because when the possibility of borrowing units of local self-government is reduced from 3% to 2% in the total budget, that's exactly one-third. The Croatian public must know that units of local self-government are reducing the possibility of borrowing by one-third. Accepting it as a correction to the incorrect assumption that it is 1%, Mr. President and those who simply lead the Croatian public astray. Here, for this very reason, we need to look for this pause, first of all, to draw attention to Mr. Pasecko's attention that it is unfair to communicate in this way in the Assembly, but to try, Mr. President, to find ways that the institute of correcting the incorrect allegations will not be abused for misinformation of the Croatian public. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u16902	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. The Institute corrects the incorrect allegations from the Rules of Procedure of this House with an amendment which says that the MP has the right to seek the correction of the incorrect quote, the correction, so to correct the new Rules of Procedure and state the facts. The chairperson may not be authorised to, when the other representative reports with the claim that the previous representative has made an incorrect claim to himself, I or the chairperson cannot and cannot assume the role to immediately interrupt the representative who has submitted for the correction of the incorrect allegation and to decide whether the previous representative has made a factual claim, and that the incorrect claim by the representative that corrects the alleged correct allegation is correct. Then they would put the chairman in a position to be the final arbitration and judge and immediately object to me if I were to violate the democratic rights of the legislator in the Rules of Procedure because if I were to take the right to assess whether something was correct or incorrect. In this particular regard, you asked for a break and you stated that it was essentially a breach of the Rules of Procedure because that MP Pasecky hurt the honour and reputation of the HSS. In his statement on behalf of the HSS Club, MP Pecek stated that there was actually one favouring at the expense of the South, North. By correcting the incorrect allegations, MP Pasecky gave his court of law that such an assessment he holds incorrect means antagonising the north and south of Croatia. I do not hold that this is a violation of your party's honor and reputation and that it is a violation of the Rules of Procedure in essence, so I urge you if you do not agree with me to act in accordance with Article 209(1) of the Rules of Procedure. Rules of Procedure. Unless you agree with my assessment that it is your opinion that the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system, as provided for by the Rules of Procedure, and that the Parliament considers it to be the same as the usual vote. Thank you very much. Please, Agent Loncar, breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u16903	Mr. President, the representative who spoke on behalf of his club has injured Article 214(6). I'll quote that item. So, "by acting out of the general rules of conduct in the Parliament." The said representative is the only representative in this House who violates the Constitution and his Article 12, and therefore deviates from the general rules, and Article 12 of our Constitution reads: "In the Republic of Croatia in the official use of Croatian language and Latin letter". I would ask you, Mr. President of the Croatian Assembly... What are you talking about here? [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u16904	It is not about the injury of the Rules of Procedure, the representative Tomcic spoke Croatian.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u16905	That's not true, that's not Croatian.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u16906	I listened to him very carefully. Too late, Pupovac. We have a follow-up debate on behalf of the HSS Club, respected representative Bozidar Pankretic, 4 minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u16907	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary, dear colleagues and colleagues, I will try to be as brief as possible. Of course I will concentrate on the division of the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry and the water economy and I believe that my debate will not cause a storm at least at the very beginning because I believe that we will all agree that a certain surprise is due to the fact that the budget for the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry is reduced. It was realistic to expect that the budget for the Ministry of Agriculture would increase rather than decrease. Perhaps very briefly I should remind you that not so long ago we spoke here when it came to Protocol 7 when we listened to different promises to protect domestic agricultural production. I will remember a sentence that still echoes in my ears, which is a sentence said by the Minister of European Integration, who admitted that she learned a lot about agriculture in the framework of the negotiations, and that when it comes to budget rebalancing, it will be claimed that there will be an increase in the position of the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry and the water economy. However, none of this and before us is the budget where items for the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry have been reduced. We hear from Prime Minister and Minister Shuker about good statistical trends but unfortunately, agriculture must be excluded from it, in order not to have any dilemma I will read a comparative review of imports of agricultural food products, the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, data 1 to 5 months this year. Unfortunately, the trend of increasing imports from 2003, which was almost declared a record but unfortunately this increase is compared to 19.6% in 2003. What's even more difficult is that I like to combine these data, is a reduction in our exports by 11%, especially in the past year, which has had an extremely good trend. I'm gonna have to hurry up, so I'm just gonna say about the very items in the Ministry. I think we all remember and listened to those promises that referred to big projects like irrigation. In the term of the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry, the item of irrigation is reduced by 69%, land regulation is reduced by 27%, I have to say what was particularly surprising to me and we all said very clearly that food control needs to be strengthened, human health is protected in order to reduce the item for the Food Agency by almost 50%. In any case, we insisted at the HSS Club that rural development, multifunctionality, the multiplicity of agriculture is something to build future investments and something that is extremely important for agriculture, however, in this proposal decreases by 8%. What's special, I'd say, hit many of our employees and experts can say, especially in fruit growing and winemaking, a linear reduction that specifically refers to institutions such as the Institute of Fruiting, and we all know that from this pay phone swore that we would increase long-term plantations, that we would have more vineyards planted, etc. Without a single foundation without one real institution, we'll certainly have a hard time doing it. And the more I end up saying because I can see that it's already blinking on me, I must say, it's never been until now that in at least the last 4.5 years that when the Ministry of Foreign Affairs increases, the Ministry of the Interior is reducing the item for the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and the water economy. Gentlemen, inadmissible after all those words that were spoken, after all we talked about what had to be done, what was needed after this liberalisation, etc., so I said in the introduction not of my words but of all those who spoke on the board that it was sadly little and painfully I believe that with our amendments which I hope will be adopted and supported by most of this Parliament, we will nevertheless change what was done in this rebalancing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u16908	Thank you very much. Dear Representative of Šima Prtvenjak on behalf of the HDZ Club, please Vice-President of the House of Mrs. Djurdju Adlesic to continue to chair.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u16909	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. On behalf of the HDZ Club, I say immediately, of course, I support this proposal and we will try to implement it. Why? During the debate on the budget at the beginning of the year as a rebalancing now, which is ahead of us, of course, it must be discussed and the determinations that have conditioned such a situation and, through the budget, refer to the basic guidelines of this budget and the commitments that follow in the period ahead as well as the clarification of the current macroeconomic environment. That last week when we seemed to discuss excise duties, that is, that may be the third item of the agenda today could have been united in all three points and probably 50% saved time because the same story we listened to at the beginning of the year in excise duties and today is repeated and is likely to happen again in all discussions and discussions. However, I will start with a certain assumption and more for reasons although my intention was no longer for the reason that so far several things have been presented which in some other way referred to budgeting in this year and in rebalancing now. In fact, we have already received the CNB report for the past year and I keep it somewhat accurate and correct and anything else can hold data that may be corrected either for daily or other needs. In addition, some of the phenomena that are conditional on this year's budget and now the rebalancing and, above all, the determinations need to confirm that this budget must actually be based on stable conditions for reasons not to slip off as the Varazdin highway, for example, or some other projects that have recently been implemented. And this report by the Croatian National Bank says about the following that in the previous year, it is said for the whole year, for the entire reporting period it was the first characteristic that the large current account deficit of the balance of payments and about 7.2%, especially in the goods account, was corrected with the account of services. Secondly, that a major fiscal deficit has also been achieved, primarily to cover the deficit, and this part has been transferred in this section by covering new duties and effects of privatisation. So, even in previous years, but teaching in this year as well. Third, that it is also a characteristic strong increase in foreign debt and that of the previous year in 2003 with 2002. That in 2003 there was a debt of $23.6 billion. The previous year was about $15.4 billion in 2002. It should be fair to say, that one part of the effects of this have also been achieved by exchange rate differences. But what else has been accomplished makes a difference between nearly $8 billion and something billion. And if we remember that the Croatian state is in charge of all years of war, for the victims, for the exiles, for everything else somewhere around $9 billion, then these two figures in one year alone, regardless of the possible causes or needs and the 9 billion debt throughout that period point to a very serious situation. Therefore, no matter who is in power, we must stabilise such financial situation in the period ahead of us in this year and next year, regardless of the agreement with the IMF for the simple reason that it is data and... on which we must ensure the financial stability of the Croatian state, in order to avoid bankruptcy. When we know that this debt is about 83, 84% of GDP, then these measures are really necessary that must be implemented both in the budget and now in the budget rebalancing for this year, as well as in the next year's guidelines. The characteristics of the previous year, also according to this report, and according to these other reports we heard, is the non-transparency of spending of fiscal resources, i.e. how we like to say citizens' funds, and we heard areas and sectors in which, especially in the case of HBOR in reconstruction, some other funds that are also in the consolidated balance sheet of the state which ultimately form either a deficit or make a difference that will have to be secured from other sources. In addition, non-transparent spending and in the situation in which we have now again, regardless of whether the deficit is 6.2, is 5.9, 5.7, but we have come to the situation that we finally have to access the agreement with the IMF, with this permanent goal to stabilise these financial flows in the Croatian state. For this reason, two goals arise, and allow one thought that is in the heat of today's debates and the struggle that is fought without the intention of naturally provoking, but to mention exactly the opposite of these 4.5 previous information indicators that we knew how to interpret, comment, so you see all the data is good and better alive, but the citizens do not know or are not aware of it. So, we can't change citizens, the data is what it is, let's try to change our budget guidelines in this year, and even for many years so that we can define what we're offering them through this budget. In this respect, the core task is consolidated public finances and the fiscal adjustment that we must make in order to be able to already implement the preparations, as other laws will follow especially in the autumn that are needed for the sake of Europe's access and financial funds, and then of course the European Union's accession. Secondly, that we must finally achieve this transparency of spending so that it cannot be spent that outside of the decisions of this home or any other way we can spend the funds and that, of course, they make a fully consolidated balance in that year, so that in fact this home, and the public does not know how each asset is spent. For this reason, we have briefly reiterated through these proposals the fundamental objective of increasing the regular income, so without those burdens or excise duties that we had for the last time and which we have already discussed, but also other regular revenues from the improved economic situation will be seen briefly in the macroeconomic relations at the end. But also to reduce receipts which means the need for borrowing in amounts which I will also try to present and present within it. It is also fundamentally yes, and we heard in the debate already that part of HZ that we had to calculate in this year of about $1.2 billion, which must finally be included here in order to carry out that part of the commitments that were accepted. The same part, regardless of how or why it was adopted, of the application of collective agreements signed at the end of the year, and they now burden one part of the salaries and other costs in terms of 111, 112 million, which also costs an additional cost. We see that part of the social funds, and here I am immediately dragging the parallel with some proposals of the laws that have been sent to us these last week, and also, of course, in the coming time, new requirements for new social benefits will be made, that already here through this social structure that has been addressed and through here some increased expenditure on this social structure seems to be an optimum of possible social giving, because income, social giving and spending in balance must be harmonised. Otherwise, of course, that deficit will look different. So, in total state income, revenues are increasing by 2.8 billion, but they're moving by themselves and I'm told why, they're reducing somewhere to about 622 million kunas. The expenditure is increasing by 1.9 million, a billion and 900 million kuna, and spending on non-financial assets is decreasing in the next period. I will not reproduce the figures, of course, for reasons of time. and the result of all of this should mean a fundamental task and a reduction of deficits. Of course, as an economist, it would be good to increase the deficit by 1%, so let's say 1% of the budget, so that 1% invested in development. But right now we would have to have a formula and a response to where to cover that 1%, whether it's funds or other sources or possible sources of asset sale or something else. Therefore, this is a deficit that needs to be reduced by an estimated amount of 947 million kuna and, of course, less will have to be owed or cut by other sources that follow. Furthermore, it should be pointed out that the last debate that took place here was a debate over excise duties, primarily cars. We cried over the poor girl for the last time, I'll only remind you, because that poor girl who has cars doesn't have any extra excise duty. And the fact is, the poor girl can't really have cars, because I'm talking about that layer that's threatened and that makes up most of the population of this country. These car excise duties will be a total increase, an increase in this revenue as a excise duty for tobacco, beer and oil derivatives, why the assessment of the fact that a good part of it is lost because of the inability or for the sake of control that is difficult to establish, of course, according to and especially towards neighbouring Bosnia and Herzegovina. So the total excise duties would grow by about 8 billion 500 and something million kuna. I would also raise income tax, somewhere increased a total of 111 million kuna. However, income tax has as well as other expenditures that we will see here seasonal impact. So it grows slightly more in the next period and is therefore estimated that, by the percentage of the execution in the previous period, it can give slightly more revenue than was foreseen by the previous budget for the reason that the second part of the season has a greater impact in this period. Also, characteristic of the profit tax, it has a reverse impact, it in the first 6 months is about the return and the rest more executes, and then in the second period we can assess its movement more easily for the next six months so that the tax on profit is realized, or tax on profit, pardon... is paid during the first period and then, in the second period of the year, the profit tax is mainly missing or very rare as it is now in HT or some others that can be regulated in this way and reduced by 181 million. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The property tax should also increase the VAT of some 433 million kunas, which also has a seasonal impact and something increased in the second part of the year ahead. Social contributions are also growing, as are dividends. Now, I would briefly like to comment on the dividend from both aspects and the needs of the budget, and on the other hand, on the aspect of the different visions of the dividend. The same way as the needs we need to meet and the ultimate goal of reducing deficits, we need to tackle certain areas that will affect the development, the economy and the population in the country as painlessly as possible. We believe that this coverage in this sector will cause the least or the most painless effects that will give the budget to be charged to stabilise finance and, in the next period, it can multi-developmentally affect that same budget following the settlement of these commitments. Therefore, this dividend has been specifically commented on by HT and others. Finally, something and concessions mean a positive correction in order to meet these needs. It's a walk. The characteristic of these expenditures is that something has increased, I have already commented, pays about 112 million, then encourages employment. Expenses slightly increased for crafts, small and medium entrepreneurship. What we particularly highlight and single out, which is already highlighted by one 2 billion HZ slightly increased expenditures 130 and something million, 132 million for the highway, Croatia's commitment to the Macelj highway. And finally some increased expenditure for defenders, parents and other social givings also which then make up the mass again that part that goes. Therefore, given this budget and in the case of consolidated users, it is a very small deficit that is planned to be achieved realistically in this year because we believe that this can be done with a few macroeconomic data indicating, however, it is already said, to increase exports much faster than the increase in imports made during this period. Of course he wants to and expects to grow in the next period. As time goes on, I can't comment, but I would like to comment on one of the views that has been expressed, but of course, our pensioners do, too. They're not being taken away, they're being given what they had last year plus a fund to follow. Therefore, this budget is not or can answer any questions that require life or social benefits that follow in the next period. Therefore, our main objective is to stabilise the macroeconomic environment, reduce external debt, reduce debt and reduce the state deficit. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u16910	Thank you very much, colleague. We have seven corrections of incorrect allegations. First came from a colleague named Zeljko Pecek. Here you go, fellow representative!
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u16911	Thank you very much. I've been correcting Mr. Shima Rifle who said we've been running the same policy since the beginning of the year as far as excise duties and taxes are concerned. That's completely incorrect because the story is different. I'm going to remind VAT 22 20% and again 22, redundancy in rebalancing is obviously nothing today. The story is completely different because from the beginning of the year to today we have decided to take 2 billion and 800 million kuna from the citizens of Croatia to the economy, which means 560 million kuna per capita. It's completely different from what we said at the beginning of the year.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u16912	Thank you very much, colleague. Next up is representative Zlatko Tomcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u16913	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I am correcting the allegations of Mr. Prlenjac's representative, which is the HDZ Representatives' Club, is behind this budget rebalance that will ensure the financial stability of the Croatian state. This is also said in the adoption of the budget in January or February. Since I cannot correct that January or February quote, I am correcting this one today. Namely, what's this about? If it were true that this finding was in January, then we wouldn't have this rebalancing today. If this finding is correct today, then the HDZ Club and the club representative at the time were not honest. So either the one from January or today is entirely incorrect because we have two very different budgets. Madam Vice President, so much for the absurdity of correcting the quote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u16914	Thank you very much. I just told you that you demonstrated the absurdity of correcting an incorrect quote because you corrected the quote that was made about half a year ago, or something less but good. All right. Let's move on. Next is representative Luka Roic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u16915	Thank you very much. I will try to correct the allegations of Mr. Prtvenjak's representative who, by the most important part, spoke about the budget rebalancing of the Croatian National Bank's report and thus in some way injured the Rules of Procedure but as we often get away from the topic in this Chamber and that is possible and I will try to correct the alleged fundamentally speaking, his report says that the fundamental task of this rebalancing is, in fact, the reduction of the deficit, the reduction of public debt and foreign debt. And that could be true if it did not happen on the burden, above all, to increase the burden on taxpayers and all those who, from now on, will be far more set aside for these revenues rather than reducing the costs which were the only task and the real task of rebalancing that would be for the benefit of the citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u16916	My fellow representative, you have not corrected an incorrect assumption. I see that goes into practice. This is already a style exercise. I'll tell you that we have seven corrections of incorrect allegations, three clubs reported and 37 MPs per 10 minutes. Just enough to have that information, and I think it would be good to take care that the quality of the debate on the implementation of the state budget behind it is also necessary. Next is Joseph Vresk.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u16917	Thank you very much. Madam Vice President, I'm going to correct the allegation of fellow MPs when he spoke of new excise duties saying that the poor can't really buy cars by alleging that cars should be a privilege for the rich. I hope we agree that today's car is an emergency and that we should also enable the poor one to buy a car. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u16918	Thank you very much. Next up is Representative Damir Cain. Here you go, buddy!
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u16919	Tom, on the trail of these previous discussions, Mr. Pritchard claimed that the poor girl had no cars and that the excise duties didn't hit her. On the contrary. Excises additionally burdened the poor people’s budget because otherwise it would not have sold cars in the sixth month if they had not collected them drastically and the biggest purchases were precisely the cheapest cars. I'm talking about percentages, not those nominal amounts. We can now say what a poor thing it is, but I want to remind you of something else. In this country we have almost two million drivers and almost one million cars and 700 thousand cars, if we add them and children means somewhere around 2.5 million people are related to cars. Autobial is a necessity, without it simply a citizen can no longer behave any business today, and all of these cars, as my colleague says, usually buy on a loan at interest rate of 9-10%, which is the most burdensome of those who have poor incomes and who live on wages.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u16920	Thank you very much, colleague. You've explained very extensively where you think your colleague made a mistake, only then it's not a correction to an incorrect assumption. Next is Representative Bozidar Pankretic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u16921	Thank you very much. The esteemed representative certainly said wrong because he said we were all crying and here we are all witnesses that the representatives of the majority did not cry but simply raised their hands for bigger excise duties.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u16922	Thank you very much. This was indeed the correcting of an incorrect allegation. Representative Ljubica Lalić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u16923	I thank Madam Vice President, so here I would refer to this very sarcastic exposition of excise duties where today is interpreted as a positive and positive trend.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u16924	I'm sorry, did you answer for the correction?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u16925	That's right.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u16926	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u16927	Therefore, it is interpreted as a positive trend in the revenue of the budget, it would be a positive trend in the revenues of the budget if these excise duties were burdened in Croatia by those who have the most. However, just by proving its social insensibility, the government has burdened those who are the poorest through excise duties.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u16928	Thank you very much. It seems to me we can move on in the name of the Clubs. On behalf of the SDP Club, Slavko Linic, please welcome fellow MP.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u16929	Madam Vice President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. At first, I would like to point out that the SDP Club will not cast its votes to amend and supplement the State budget for 2004. What are the reasons? This document now very clearly indicates that all start-up development projects in the Republic of Croatia are leaving. Not just railways anymore, and I want to make it clear to my HSP colleague that a modernization and progress project is leaving. In addition, it is leaving the project of internationalisation or information or how we can say IT project. It is abandoned for the reason that funds have been seized over the previous three years provided for the development of these projects. And those most painful projects of local self-government that local self-governments have also prepared to invest in water, water protection and water protection, to invest in dumps, to invest in urban transport, and this project of investments by local self-government is abandoned for reasons that the funds necessary for development in the Republic of Croatia are not provided. In addition, we cannot provide support for a document that increases consumption and continues clearly with further releases on the divisive side of the budget, increasing the amounts set by the basic document, budgeted for 2004. They're not huge amounts, but they're numerous, so their mass is always a burden. And so it was necessary, so we can't support that either, an increase in the revenue side through new taxes, through new charges. And the new ones are the ones that were first and foremost introduced because spending on the spending side is something that is dangerous for budgetary policy. We also cannot support that document, that budget that leaves the deficit policy that is possible for development projects. And it is evident that it is possible to accept the deficit policy in the state budget if we have the necessary infrastructure projects in railways and roads and health and IT technology. But we believe that the message that has been sent to leave, a project that finance development projects in Croatia through the deficit, is not acceptable to the SDP Club. Of course, here we can and very clearly see the achievement in six months show none of those stories about the efficiency of the tax administration and much less, about stopping the grey economy. Because the records show both excise duties and VAT that we have no more significant shifts than we did in previous years, even though it was the basis for stories about smaller excise duties. And of course what particularly affects us are the items that show in the rebalancing of both sciences and agriculture and other expenditures, and we can conclude that even the retroactive activities that were started in the earlier period with this document are now being put on ice. Let me also give some arguments about these reasons that I've listed. The higher taxes and excise duties introduced were introduced because of the coercion of the financial world that can accept higher spending in the Republic of Croatia. Only higher consumption in Croatia cannot be financed by the deficit. Greater consumption in Croatia can be financed by new taxes. And that's why excises were introduced. Only because too many, electoral messages were ruling parties that tried to implement in one part of the first 6 months, and increased the expenditure side of the budget, that is the reason for the introduction of the tax. And we have to say very clearly, citizens who will pay bigger taxes for cars, who will pay bigger excise duties for smoking, will again receive money back in one part. Whether through the increased expenditure we have to give birth, whether through increased contributions to defenders. Therefore, the government only took a very clearly broad category of average citizens, put into the budget, burdened the second part to meet its electoral messages sending money to those same citizens. It is an obvious thing that is possible, it is the policy of this government, it is the policy of the ruling party, with which politics is difficult for us to agree on. Because it is evident that only with tax revenues is trying to resolve part of individual civil structures in the Republic of Croatia. None of what we heard at the beginning of this year. Three billion efficient administrations are currently going to pick up, three billion, today we see that it's not that easy or possible. It is evident that the government has not yet prepared a programme to fight the gray economy, especially cigarette smuggling, as it is evident that there are many problems in that area. Let's move on to the profit side. For us, it's a huge surprise, and that's bringing dividends into consumption. Therefore, dividends left for two reasons were left to serve to finance the development of modern categories. Structural changes in the Republic of Croatia meant less heavy industries, more service activities, more sales of knowledge and knowledge technology. The one who could secure it with cash, according to our calculations was only the Croatian Telecom company that had to simply finance the Croatian Telecom that had to simply finance it. Huge companies in Croatia that are also known on the world market. Both Siemens and Ericcson Tesla, but also hundreds of private small companies that have developed thanks to a highly organized system of education in electrical engineering. Therefore, many small companies, many entrepreneurs are looking for their job outside Croatia, but are unable to secure it in Croatia. Because money intended for them will be spent in the State budget on the spending side. Another reason for the former government's wish was that Deutsche Telecom could not withdraw its profits but also leave it for the development of the Croatian "IT" sector. And that's what happened this year. Now we've decided to spend money, which means we've finally given Deutsche Telecom the green light to withdraw his profits. We were expecting something else. We expected that the missing funds might be provided by privatizing revenues because we listen to the Prime Minister every day who clearly advises: “We don’t need the state sector. We need the private sector. He's efficient. It is common with the Association of Employers, the Competitiveness Council.” We listen: “Only they are our future.” And this year we have no income. And there's no income. What's the reason? Are we against the private sector? We do not believe in its effectiveness or, or we have problems achieving certain political objectives of the ruling party. Of course, by using profits in companies that must ensure the development of the Republic of Croatia, we are doing again bear service to our economy. A few words about the spending side. We're going back to the railroad. The item in the Railways is what we said very clearly when the provisions of the Railways Act were abolished in this House and when we said very clearly that the maintenance of the Railway system means that sooner or later we will come with a billion and two hundred to a billion and five hundred million necessary maintenance funds. And we have to understand, this money goes into co-financing from, not this billion and two hundred, but that before. Co-financing of passenger transport, maintenance and infrastructure investment. No kuna goes to HZ in the transport of goods. We therefore arrange infrastructure for foreign carriers, not domestic ones. We're giving up foreign exchange income services that HH could provide. And this current way of financing shows no investment in Croatian railways. There is only investment in infrastructure because it is our obligation to the corridors in the European Union. In addition, we have expenditure on increased wages, is the result of collective agreements. But remember how many messages we got, the new government rational government. Less employees, less employees of large officials with large salaries. Do we see that as a result of the first six months? No, I don't. Rebalance, we have to pay for it. Has there been a rationalization in the government? The answer is that we got after only six months. It hasn't been carried out. It's a different form of organization, a larger number of employees. These are the results of an increase in expenditure and pay. Of course, what is surprising is yesterday’s statement by the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia who says: “Enough is social spending. It's too much social spending. We will stop social spending.” And at the same time what we find in the rebalancing? Opposite claims. A continuous increase in consumption. And that's our biggest problem. One thing we're saying, the other is happening to us through the budget. And none of us are against it. It's a message from the ruling, a message we don't want to support. Now I come to that third item that's the most unique. 600 million or 900 million when you add up two items is reduced in the financing account. And that's the message of how we bring the deficit to 4 and a half percent. Why did it have to be done? I repeat that first thesis. This was because we have consumption in the budget of the Republic for 2004. The consumption cannot be financed from the loan and money cannot be provided for the financing of consumption. We have abandoned development projects and this is why we do not need loans, and we believe that it would be very important for the economy to provide the necessary credit resources to continue the projects that started in 2003. Of course, the problem of reducing the deficits due to open consumption is the reason that we leave the reforms in agriculture, that it is probably problematic and reform related to science, and we will see what will happen to reforms in the judiciary. Maybe at the very end. On behalf of the SDP, we do not want to predict at this time what projections of macroeconomic sizes will be at the end of the year, but we feel a certain fear that we have burdened citizens with new taxes, that since we have not properly deployed them we will not achieve what we wanted. Dispersion of the economy, increased number of employees and concerns that every citizen of the Republic of Croatia has a secure job.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u16930	Thank you very much, colleague. We have corrections to incorrect allegations. He is the first representative of Frano Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u16931	Thank you, Madam Vice President. A colleague, Linic, said somewhere in the introduction of his exposure that this budget leaves all development projects. This is simply not true because reading this Budget clearly shows development projects, but it is true that something is leaving. The following is abandoned: Mr. Linic is leaving your project of catastrophic government borrowing. Mr. Linic is leaving your spending project with no cover and no decisions from this House. And something else is also leaving, and it is leaving the project of granting state guarantees to private companies where, in whose chairs are the directors of friends. For example, the Lenac case, it's abandoned.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u16932	Thank you very much. Next correction by Ivana Sučec-Tracostanec. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u16933	I also wanted to correct the incorrect allegation that we had left development projects, so there were a number of areas: Railways and roads and information and everything else. So it's incorrect. It is true that the development project is only slightly redemensed and the "time" is done differently because we are obliged to make up for 6 billion from last year. It is true that the project has been abandoned, it is true by the bankruptcy of “Vicora Lenca” for the state half a billion kuna, and a total of 700 million kuna for all believers. So this project is unfortunately abandoned by going bankrupt. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u16934	Thank you very much, dear colleague. Krunoslav Markovinović, please welcome fellow MP.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u16935	Madam Vice President, here's counterpart Linic said that local self-government is leaving the dump, besides is it? It is known that this government through the Ministry of Construction is giving and will give hundreds of millions of kunas just to edit the dumps, which I think the last government didn't worry much about.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u16936	The next representative is pardon the next representative, Gordan Jandrokovic, please choose a colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u16937	Dear Madam Vice-President, I am correcting my colleague Linic's incorrect claim that there is no better collection of VAT because changes and additions to the auction budget have been made to increase the expected VAT revenues. And that amounted to 433 million kuna, which is not on the map for 2004. Which is 8.3% higher compared to 2003.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u16938	Thank you very much. Another act of an incorrect allegation, honourable representative Marijan Bekavac, please choose a colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u16939	Thank you, Madam Vice-President, the esteemed colleague Linic has created that spending cannot be financed from the loan. That's right, and the truth is, it can't be financed from the Creidt. And what you've clearly shown is the government's debt in your $15 billion term. It's clear that most of them went for consumption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u16940	Thank you. The word has been answered and Minister Schuker will be excused, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u16941	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. I'd go with what Mr. Representative said in the end, amazingly anyone who deals with expensive finances for four years can't read what the deficit is. That's just amazing. Because in the explanation of this budget, it is said that the deficit has been reduced by 614 million kuna, but this government, for a difference, has included a unit of local self-government in the consolidated balance sheet. As for the reduction in borrowing, I would remind you that in 2003 you did not even have to be in charge of a weekly unit of local self-government, by amending the law at the end of the year you called two or three units of local self-government to be in charge. So much for caring for local self-government units, because according to the 2003 budget law, it was impossible. And these 600 million deficit cuts from 2.5 to 2.2 is the inclusion of local self-government deficits in the consolidated state budget and the 4 and a half percent deficit. So much for deficits, but it's hard to admit sometimes that one government has succeeded something else that has failed. But before I start to explain some things, I'd have touched two points. This government has paid between three hundred and five million guarantees in the first five months 169 million guarantees from Viktor Lenac. If that 169 million for a project that had been doomed to fail before, we probably didn't have to pay for some things would have been different. But even more interesting the other day on the board of the Privatisation Fund was to see the board’s decision that the board of directors for the beach workers, Viktor Lenac, should pay 19 million kuna. And as these funds will be received from the Employment Fund, apropo there was no such fund in the financial plan of the Employment Fund. In the financial plan of 2003, they are not available in the financial plan in 2004 only on how to use and address certain problems and transparency of public finances. But also listening to the HSS Club and the SDpa Club, two clubs that have been acting in power over the period, all the time it's been said that consumption is now increasing, expenditures are increasing, and nothing can be done at the same time as they have done in the past four years. It's a very strange math. If expenditure increases, some projects should probably be supported. And there are no abandoned HZA development projects, but a billion and a half kuna had to repeat that, which last year past the budget went to HZE were not recorded. They weren't recorded as 0.7% of the deficit. This year they came to pay for the difference, this year the complete funds for HZE are in the state budget. Clear and transparent. So there's the difference between politics. Local self-government projects. In the first six months, the government has issued a possibility of borrowing, so 19 units of local self-government have filed a request. For them, 17 were granted approval, a total of some, slightly less than 300 million kuna. There is also a reduction in the potential for borrowing by the end of the year. However, the unit of local self-government, which in the course of 9 or 10 months applies to borrowing, will be difficult for the project to realise by 12 months. But since the units of local self-government are in the consolidated budget of the state, 33 of the largest city and 21 of the county, so 20 of the county and the city of Zagreb. It is logical that the state must lead the policy of borrowing. But I repeat this government has made it possible by law on budget implementation at the beginning of the year for local self-government units to be in debt because it was not possible in 2003 that I felt as mayor of one city, where up to 11 months I was practically dissipated was not given the opportunity to be in charge. But this was done by amending the budget law in 9 months. I don't know what new taxes are or new taxes. The former government's plan was to increase excise duties on oil products, probably even those, given the situation in the oil market, would not go to an increase in the cost of oil products, therefore excise duties on private cars and tobacco excise duties are not new taxes, but are old taxes that have been increased. The deficit policy for development projects is yes, but not a valid deficit. The policy of all projects that will be expenditure this year is shown in the budget, within the framework of the 4.5% deficit and not in the framework, the deficit of 6.3 or 6.5 that was the deficit last year. The first 6 months also increased by 6% compared to the first 6 months of last year. And this is its clear indication that certain things in finance are recorded differently, but I would like to mention again the excise method of monitoring excise duties in early 2002 were the monitoring of excise charges transferred from the tax administration to the customs administration with two men. This administration day has practically remained on the same number of people without education, without new people, without the ability to charge and anything. Tot was therefore the former government's decision to make a change. Why didn't someone take care of the bill ten percent of the state's income is another pair of shoes. However, there is something that is technically impossible to spend in two, three months, but certain actions are carried out to make it look different. Finally, measures have also been taken as regards the export of cigarettes from Croatia. Customs has taken it. Why did she do it before? I don't know. And now something about Dutch Telecom dividends. First of all, the withdrawal of dividends will not affect the development of Dutch Telecoms because it's a few years of individuality and it's an extraordinary dividend. However, it is a very interesting contract signed after the sale of the HTU control package, which allowed it a certain monopoly position. This is not what you want to talk about today and also who says that deute telecom will withdraw its profits from Croatia. At the end of the day, other investors from Croatia either withdraw or do not withdraw their profits. But it's very interesting that somebody's been running state money for two or three years. That the state has virtually no use. Therefore, be assured, and I hereby declare here that the withdrawal of income from HT will not result in a reduction in the development of HT because HT has not used this extraordinary profit in recent years, but the development and development projects of HT are carried out through their regular business. It is also a total lie that Prime Minister Sanader said he would stop social spending,... etc. I was present, sitting next to him when he made that statement yesterday. He said no guarantees would be given to private companies, friends’ companies, and that they would be careful how these guarantees would be given and how these guarantees would not come back for collection. That's what he said. So I repeat, all the reduced expenditure in agriculture, in science and all the things that have been brought out here today, don't amount to nearly as much as the guarantees paid this year, I'm not talking about last year, just for Victor Lenac. Also, all wages, all agricultural cuts are not as much as Mr. Bevc has received in the last two years and as much as has been transferred to PIK Vrbovac in the last two years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u16942	Thank you very much, Mr. Minister. What plate was it, a correction or an injury?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u16943	Correction of an incorrect allegation.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u16944	Here you go, my colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u16945	You could see, because I've picked up at least three times. But I'm actually looking for accurate information, I can't correct the minister because his secretary of state on the floor said that this year after the reduction...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u16946	Please examine the quote you want to correct, perhaps it would be better.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u16947	So I am correcting the inaccuracies of the minister that units of local self-government will be able to borrow more than 300 million, as the Secretary of State on the Committee on Local Self-Government said that after this rebalance, the total amount of the debt will be 275 million, and that so far guarantees have been issued to Zadar and Rijeka at 140 plus 60 million. So not 300 million but it's going to be 275 total, and you've now told the ministers that the guarantees have already been issued at 300. ... That's what you said. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u16948	Thank you very much. There's still a correction. Next is representative Slavko Linic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u16949	I am correcting an incorrect statement by the minister that the deficit in the Republic of Croatia is 6.7. All the official data published so far suggests that the deficit in the state budget for 2003 is 5% and that it is he who can compare with these projections. I would therefore ask the minister to read the figures in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u16950	Thank you very much. The Minister is asking for a word.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u16951	The document that I will sign as Minister of Finance and a document that will be signed today by the governor of the Croatian National Bank says that the deficit in the Republic of Croatia was 6.3% last year and you have again shown with your discussion today that you want to recalculate the budget. So the deficit of the Republic of Croatia last year was 6.3%.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u16952	Mr. Minister, I broke the Rules of Procedure when I gave you my word. I give myself a warning. Correction of the incorrect quote Bozidar Pankretic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u16953	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Correction of Mr. Minister's incorrect allegations that the president of the administration or crisis management has been paid as much as the reduction in the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry. I'm going to go public with what might have been said before. Yeah, I agree, expensive management, but let's hear it for what. Because in 2000, workers met on the road, 2,000 workers on the road. If I may finish it, ma'am? After that, power outages occurred, the problems were huge. A billion and 100 million kunas of dubiosis in 2000. I have to say that the situation would have been saved, and so should those who aren't cheap, but that the resurrected dead man I have to say, Mr. Shucker you know well, it wasn't the government who created it, but it was the administrations before and that dubiosis that had to be dealt with. We had a solution for the company to go bankrupt, we saved the company of course at a price, and the fault wasn't on us, but on those who brought it...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u16954	Excuse me, Mr. Representative, you know very well that you are in violation of the Rules of Procedure. We've got a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Representative Matušić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u16955	The Rules of Procedure were injured in Article 209. In fact, counterpart Pankretic confirmed what the minister said and said it was true that management was more expensive for the state than for agricultural reductions.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u16956	Thank you very much. It's an article to say. Next injury, Agent Loncar, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u16957	Madam Vice-President Pankretic injured Article 214(1). Speaking, he disinformed the Croatian public, and for the sake of the Croatian public, it should be said that the crisis management received $4.5 million, that he left behind 120 million in debt last year, transferred 100 million kuna in this year, and when the crisis management brought by Mr Pankretic, shares in PIK Vrbovac were worth 50 euros. And do you know what it's worth today? 14 limes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u16958	You initially cited an article that was injured and later corrected the quote and discussed it. Representative Tomljanović, come in. You gave up? All right. Noble. Next injury, MP Pankretic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u16959	It's incorrect what Mr. Lonchar says...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u16960	Injury.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u16961	... Croatian public. I made it very clear the reasons why it happened. So please...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u16962	My colleague Pankretić, you know the Rules of Procedure and, you know, I agree with both of you in violation of the Rules of Procedure and this is now a debate. We had another correction to the incorrect assumption. Here you go, pal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u16963	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Minister Schuker incorrectly claims the deficit is 6.3. If Mr. Minister were to stick to the principles of consistency then he would indicate the official information he gave to the Croatian Parliament in the implementation of the state budget. And one more thing. If it were to stick to the principles of consistency, it would then be prescribed to the 2002 and 2003 HT dividend or profit of the budget rather than to the 2004 budget. The principle of consistency must therefore be respected.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u16964	Thank you, colleague. Let's move on with the debate. I think we'll get another club. Club LIBRE, Representative Jozo Radoš. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u16965	Thank you, Madam Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the LIBRA I will repeat the fundamental views on the budget since unfortunately, in this regard, there is no speech on the fundamental orientation of the state budget in this rebalancing. Our fundamental objections remain, therefore, as far as the budget is concerned, which means that this is the continuation of a policy that is dominantly based on social policy, on consumption, on the spending of what we do not have, and there is nothing that is important, which opens up perspective, the future. There is no redundancy of the economy, no tax cuts, no development, and there is not even investment in the infrastructure of this budget, or they are significantly smaller than they should be. To support what I'm saying, I'm just going to list the basics of education and science. In the past budget of the Republic of Croatia, the share of education and science funds grew almost as much as it is growing, as inflation is. Therefore, our orientation towards the strategy adopted by the Croatian Parliament was to increase investment for science and education. However, there is no increase in this article and practically the share of education and science in the national budget is reduced because the state budget is growing and the share of science remains the same. Therefore, the share of science and education in the state budget of the Republic of Croatia is relatively, therefore, reduced and does not increase the intensity that many advocate, they swear on it, and it is also written in the strategy for the development of science adopted by this Croatian Parliament. Otherwise, in order for the Republic of Croatia to achieve Europe in terms of divergence for science, it would be necessary to allocate 17% more annually than it has been last year. The trend was of course not respected even in previous years, but there was an increase in the separation for science. However, this year not only has there not been an increase in the isolation but this rebalancing has led to a relative reduction in the separation for science in the Republic of Croatia. And of course there is no real development without the development of science and Croatian knowledge on which development rests, there is simply no development of science, or investment in education. And these are the things that absolutely need to be determined because it is the party's fundamental political orientation, but I also think that it should be the country's fundamental political orientation if the country does not want to face the issues of deficits for a year and a year, issues of prominent social policy, and wants to create prospects for development and, of course, for a better life for its citizens. And it simply needs to be established in that sense. In this budget rebalancing, therefore, except that it is on the trail of this basic policy, the poor policies of the Government of the Republic of Croatia only stress itself, there is an increase in expenditure of nearly 2 billion, but these are increases in expenditure for employees, these are aid subsidies and compensation to citizens. And from these funds actually very little has money that goes into the development of the economy, to encourage the economy. Not to say that an increase in income means that the tax press on our country's economy remains the same. So these are things that we absolutely cannot support, and here not only are there no new signs of development but it can be seen that material costs are actually falling in terms of the purchase of property, objects, equipment. And this means that investments are actually falling into infrastructure, including, of course, the most typical and most sensitive parts of infrastructure, such as investing in IT equipment. So these are all things that we absolutely cannot support on behalf of Club Libre. So it's a continuation of the wrong policy and a deterioration actually in that sense. There are some, of course, shifts that are to be welcomed, but they can't really question that basic negative assessment. Sure, investing in the Croatian railways is a gesture to be welcomed. The question is why it's been lost half a year in that sense. If that wasn't planned before, then of course there can't be a word about it either, if it wasn't planned to, then it's possible to conduct a policy in the right way. However, this approach to poor planning then has sudden changes in budgetary policy in other segments and this says that the Ministry of Finance, or the entire government, is not doing its job in this regard as it should be. For example, when it comes to science, two items are inserted abruptly. These are the Olympic Games, as if it were not known that there would be an Olympic Games, and then the costs needed to do so and a new item is inserted, obviously some kind of project of science reform. Why didn't those two items that were absolutely famous get in on time? They're going in today, but then they're going on a pay cut, and then they're going to be sending out recruits. So according to this plan proposed by the Ministry of Science, i.e. the government proposed a reduction in the budget for scientific recruits, only 200 scientific recruits can be employed by the end of the year, so about 13 million kunas reduce costs for the salaries of scientific recruits and so goes to the Olympics. And those are definitely things that I absolutely can't support. If it were a reform of science, that it should have been put in the budget before, it also has no doubt. Of course, the question is what's going to be of this, whether it's going to be one of our projects that's being prepared, and then some teams are forming, so, etc., months pass, years pass, and there are no reforms. There are other segments of this, but it is absolutely unacceptable for those two items that are the government's declarative position and were known to the Croatian government and the Croatian public that now the budget rebalances are being put in place and casts out such an important item as the reduction of salaries for scientific recruits and the reduction of the redistribution of the Library Fund in Croatian schools. These two things absolutely show a negative trend and we in the name of the Club LIBRE, of course, rejecting this fundamental orientation of the Government of the Republic of Croatia absolutely cannot welcome them and I think they should be particularly highlighted as something that is absolutely negative. I'm going to list some, some changes in the state budget that are absolutely incomprehensible to me. For example, for the Anti-intelligence Agency, I don't know which times in a row the funds increase. In 2003, the agency had a budget planned for about 100 million kuna. The rebalancing brought this to 120 million kuna, and this year it was 140 million kuna and now it's growing. I do not remember the change in the budget of the Republic of Croatia that the anti-intelligence agency remained on the same means. And what she should be doing today is conditions, I think, minor threats to the Republic of Croatia than it was 10 years ago, which is the fight against corruption, the fight against organised crime. I do not see that there are significant shifts in this segment and it would be interesting how the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security accepts these constant increases in the costs of the Anti-Intelligence Agency. 40 million kuna just last year on this one. Then, there is absolutely no clear increase in funds for the Ministry of the Interior and a constant increase as a new trend for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. If there is money to increase those three items, then it should all be transferred to important segments. It is, of course, the development of the economy and the Ministry of Agriculture, forestry and the water economy that is falling again. In the next few years, the Ministry of Agriculture will be the most exposed to all the processes of harmonising our system with the European Union system. We should plant about 10,000 acres of vine in the next 3 years or 4 years. A few tens of thousands of fruits, there's no orientation here. and after that, we won't be able to do it, so if there's any extra money then those 40 million kunas from the anti-intelligence agency return to the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry because it's a segment in which when we enter the European Union, which is our common orientation, we will absolutely be blocked. It is absolutely unacceptable even though it is not a specific part of my party's programme but it is a vital economic activity that must be prepared to be able to compete competitively with the European Union's market, because if we do not prepare ourselves by then and other segments of our economic policy will come up with a question and that is something we cannot understand. In addition, several very delicate Croatian Government agencies lose money with this budget, the Competition Protection Agency, the Agency that should prevent monopolies, the agency that should give new blood to the economy, the Agency loses out of its budget, then there is the State Agency for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures. A newly formed very important agency that should bring competitiveness into a very important area that is burdened with a series of difficulties, etc., which can then generate corruption processes, this Agency that has yet to live with this prophecy loses and only comes to 81% of its intended budget. And the third very important government institution, it is the central state administration office for state property management, also loses 15% of its budget, and we know that in the governance segment of state property, there is a big problem, that it should, it should, however, start working on it, but it should continue to make records and then properly manage state property and absolutely cannot understand that these three agencies of the Government of the Republic of Croatia that are actually low in this budget are losing that money. It is not big money and it is absolutely a harmful orientation to protect competition agencies, then the Agency for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures and the Central State Office for State Property Management is losing this budget. And finally another remark concerning the defense against the fight. The budget plan envisions around 5 million kuna and 600 thousand kuna, to defend against the fight, and should know that only in the 6th month of this year, a big storm and a fight in Međimurje caused damage of around 40 million kuna. The conclusion of the mayor of 8 Croatian County Mayors is that the government will ask for this rebalancing to increase funds to protect against the fight, and we will propose on behalf of the Club LIBRE with our amendment that the conclusion of Croatian mayors be fulfilled, we will indeed ask that these symbolic 5 million kunas be increased to 100 million kuna, as it is also a very important segment of the protection of Croatian agriculture. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u16966	Thank you very much, colleague. Now we'll have a break by 3:00, reminding the club presidents to meet with President of the Parliament at 2:00, thank you very much and welcome. Dear colleagues and colleagues, it's 15 hours, I suggest we be exact, let's move on with the debate. Next on behalf of the SDSS Club is counterpart Milorad Pupovac. Here you go, my colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u16968	Madam Vice President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. In its part, the proposed budget rebalancing has introduced the requirements for the correction of the budget relating to state support to local administration and self-government units. But only partially. He respected it in a valid manner in the case of the municipality of Iron or Vrginmost, and in the case of other municipalities he recognised it to a minimum. And in the case of most municipalities in the area of special state care, unfortunately, he either did not respect or did not find a way to respect the fact that without support from the budget without what is called the aid of the general state, these municipalities simply cannot function. And now let me explain why I mean it and why the Government has proposed this kind of budget rebalance when it comes to other mechanisms of assistance, support, municipalities in the area of special state care. First, municipalities in the area of special state care are not only devastated by war but also devastated by the fact that there is simply a lack of any production, which means also income entities. and that the rate, or percentage of employment in the area according to our knowledge, is somewhere between 5% and 15%. I will give you an example of the municipality of Dvor, in which there are 300 employees per five to six thousand. Something better is in Costa Rica and something better is in Plitvice Lakes, but it's a general state in the area. And if that's the situation, then you simply ask yourself, what are these municipalities from, what are these cities going to provide for, fill their budget? Even if we know that between 30 to 50% of the employees in the state and public services of these municipalities and cities come from other cities and communities, for example the municipality, i.e. the town of Glina, a good portion of the employees comes from Sisak. Just as we know that in the city of Knin, a good part of the staff comes from Sibenik. Therefore, they meet their tax obligations in another city and rarely in another county. And if it is indeed such a condition as it seems to be, then without adequate support from the state, these municipalities cannot fulfill what they must meet. And it's not just that that community officials get paid, it's what's actually a state interest, and that's where the government works. To serve power, available to those who live there. To give them public services, to give them public administration, to make public administration available to them at hand. That the police, that the public administration, that their education, that communals could simply be at their hands. You can imagine the situation in which the Municipality of Plaški, on the basis of this budget, is in force and on the basis of the budget rebalancing from the state, receives 136 thousand kuna. And from her own income, she certainly can't provide the means to make it work. There live two very respectable communities whose relations need to be taken down by Serb returnees, the mahogany emigrants from Bosnia and Herzegovina, without a valid effective authority that would on the one hand express the interests of the local self-government unit, and on the other hand represent the state and state policy, it is absolutely certain that it cannot function properly. And that's why it seems to me, Mr. Minister, that with your efforts to make a rebalancing so as to meet the legitimate demands of these units of local self-government, it seems to me that this effort will not be enough to show already that it is not enough, but that it will need to find some other way. Otherwise, government policy and our policy will only prove to be a promise but not a readiness to execute. That we really consider this area an area of state interest, as the prime minister said. And when we say an area of state interest, then we actually think that that's where the state works, on the one hand, and on the other hand, to make it possible for these local authorities to become a subject of development in that area. If we're not going to train local authorities to function as developmental subjects in that area, then I don't know who we're going to do. In the area of the municipality of Iron or Vrginmost there are several economic operators that are devastated. Ownerships are pretty vague. And business is even more vague. If we local authorities won't be able to have more control, better insight and color efficiency in how to make assumptions with the state that it works, then I don't know how we're going to do it. How are we supposed to stop the mixing? How are we going to prevent vague ownership relations? Efforts to get money from the state's account once more so that it would never actually end up there, as is usually happening. Therefore, I would appeal from this pay phone, not only to the minister, but to all my colleagues and colleagues that indeed those areas which, because of the immigrants and the returnees, deserve treatment from special state concerns, if it was not done to the sufficient extent of this rebalancing, and it is not, to do so in another way, which is to try to see from the resources of the government reserve how to help these units to function. And if you'll allow me, Mr. Minister, what my colleague, Mr. Radosh, was talking about in relation to science. Science and education have been denied 40 million kuna with this rebalancing. As a teacher at the university, I am obliged to say that if there was somewhere to be saved, then science and education should not have been among the priorities of saving. Saving on scientific money, I come from a department where more than half of the teachers don't have scientific recruits. Faculty of Philosophy in Zagreb. Saving at primary schools libraries in circumstances where we know we have the production of books we have, but we also have a problem with how to increase the quality of education especially basic school, I don't think it's rational. And if possible, Mr. Minister, you should see how to correct that moment. If we were to correct this moment about science and education, especially with regard to scientific recruits, especially with regard to providing libraries of primary, or secondary schools, where it is not about billions of kunas, it is about much smaller amounts, but which in the future can guarantee what this country needs, which is fresh, new strength for people who know, who may not be burdened with everything we or older than us are with, and therefore, it seems to me that if it is possible to reconsider and reconsider these decisions or proposals on rebalancing, that the same way as with regard to the issues of these municipalities in the area of special state care. Thank you, Madam Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u16969	Thank you very much, colleague. We don't have any more on behalf of the clubs. We can have an individual discussion. First reported is counterpart Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u16970	Dear Vice President of the House, Mr. Minister, colleagues and fellow MPs! Five guarantees are listed on Dr. Sanader's security card. I guarantee Croatia, writes pompous Dr Sanader, first tax cuts, second economic growth, third employment growth, fourth standard growth and fifth membership in the European Union. Four of these guarantees are from the sphere of economic policy, one from the sphere of foreign policy. But the country's budget is the crown of all policies, both internal and external, and mostly of course economic policy. Then let's take the turn. The guarantee is the first tax reduction. The VAT has not been reduced despite the promise, 22% remained and will remain as likely until the end of the government's term. On 15 July, new excise duties on cigarettes and cars enter into force. So, it's not tax cuts as it says in the first guarantee, it's tax cuts. In the end, citizens have fewer and Minister Schuker in the state register more. Second, the guarantee is also announced by the abolition of tax reliefs, which is the discharge that citizens feel directly because when they receive a bill on the annual tax application they then get a refund on those benefits. It is announced to them to abolish it. Guarantee two, economic growth. Minister Schuker predicts an economic growth of 3.7%, experts say 3.5%. Last year, however, that growth was 4.3% and 2002. 5.2%. Minister Shuker boasts of positive indicators, but let's look at those indicators as well. Industrial production grew by Minister Shuker 4.1%, statistics say 3.2% but last year it grew at a rate of 6.3%. Construction works by May were 10.1% but in the same period last year it was twice as big as 21.2%. The retail trade also recorded twice as much growth. Foreign investments, the first quarter of this year, $247m, last year in the first quarter three times over $667m. Economic growth is therefore slowed and the rebalance of this budget that we are discussing today does not offer optimism because it does not offer any new momentum. At the beginning of the term, Prime Minister Sanader says we will invest in science and technology. And what does the new rebalancing offer? 18 million kunas less for scientific and research activities, 3.1 million kunas less for investment in computer programmes, education has therefore been taken more than 22 million kunas. Third guarantee, employment growth. The number of unemployed is shrinking, which is exactly in the first half of this year by 24,000, not 30, as Minister Shuker says, but by 24,000. Where's the reduced unemployment? Istria County, Dubrovnik, Sibenik, Zadar, in just the last month 10 thousand people found work in hotels, restaurants and shops at sea. So we have seasonal employment. Every job is good and seasonly, but real indicators of unemployment will not be seen until the end of the year. Fourth guarantee, standard growth. You could say that but not all citizens, just some looking at this budget rebalance. He predicts more for the social. 50 million kuna for disabled and family pensions of defenders, 10 million kuna for maternity leave, 64 million kuna for other social benefits and even 112 million kuna for the salaries of the beneficiary of the budget, means for bureaucracy. But taking the money out of the budget and giving it in social means taking the money from the budget that needs to be developed. Any increase in production and economic development is a healthy basis and perhaps the only sound basis for growing standards. If the growth of standards is based on the increase in taxes and the spending of budget revenues on social investment, then it is the shortest time to fail. Minister Shuker, you know that very well. The revenues of the budget mean that they are increasing, but not based on the growth of the economy, because the indicators from the beginning of my debate clearly indicate it rather than by kidnapping from the economy. It takes 300m euros from HT's profits. Interestingly, it is a three-year profit now recorded by Minister Shucker as revenue from the budget. It was created last year and last year, on the principle of how you record the obligations that have arisen. At that time, she was to be recorded as a profit at that age. So income increases and this increases by increasing taxes, increasing the burden and taking money from the economy. Growth and expenditure mainly on spending items. Good macro-economic policies require at least three things. It is necessary to have an economic strategy, to have a team of experts, to have a good economic programme. What do we have? Economic strategist, State Secretary for Development Strategy Mr. Ante Babic, who withdrew from the IMF that proposed a VAT reduction but then to insist on the IMF's strategy, had to give up his strategy together with the government and where it was clearly shown that the IMF had decided here instead of ministers. The deputy prime minister's professional team in charge of the economy, Mr Hebrang, led by the team and other ministers Vukelic and Schuker. We haven't seen the economic program yet, he's not here yet, so it's hard to talk about it. It's actually impossible to talk about anything that's not there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u16971	Thank you very much, colleague. We have corrections to incorrect allegations. First is counterpart Emil Tomljanović, here's a colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u16972	Dear Madam Vice-President, I would like to correct only one incorrect allegation of a distinguished colleague, Stazic, who said that despite some positive indicators or revenue from a budget that is not based on the growth of the economy, this is an incorrect allegation. All trends in the first half of this year point to recovery of economic activity, so the economy slowed down in the second half of 2003 and now expectations for real growth of gross domestic product even increased to 3.7%. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u16973	Thanks a lot, buddy. Next up is representative Krunoslav Markovnović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u16974	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Namely, my colleague Stazic, she's speaking purely at once again, I'm correcting that the growth of the social product or how large, the growth has slowed down, here, the growth has slowed down, the economics. I'm looking at it a little more specifically, unlike his... In fact, I'm taking care, really, and I'm monitoring what's going on with almost 8 hundred companies in my community, and I can tell you that development is very important, building, building, expanding the drive, hiring people, no workers, unfortunately. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Except for those of you who make up the unemployed.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u16975	Thanks a lot, buddy. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, here you go, dear colleague Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u16976	Madam Vice President, I feel offended by the expression that I'm speaking casually because 3.7 is still less than 4.6, so it's not a flat rate, it's simply numbers, you should know that 3.7 is less than 4.6. That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u16977	Forgive my fellow MP but your thesis may be found in an article of the Rules of Procedure that you are obliged to mention at the outset when you report for injury. And as you Rules of Procedure know very well, I'm sorry you didn't apply that knowledge. I'm not gonna warn him this time, I hope this is enough. Let's move on with the debate. Representative Zvonimir Mršić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u16978	Dear vice presidents, esteemed ministers, colleagues and colleagues. We haven't even got a budget today that all units of local, local, regional, regional self-government must have. In fact, even the smallest municipality has to make a budget with 3 years of projections, I was also talking about it when it comes to budgeting. Then perhaps we could understand that there was no time, so there was no data. But on this rebalancing, I really think that budget projections should have been made for the next three years and should have been done, the state should have done what it requires of each unit of local self-government, which is to create programs that are accompanying and component parts of the budget units of local self-government. And again what the audit, which administrative supervision, which the finance ministry requires of the least of the municipalities, that, that obligation, the ministry is not ready to take on itself. What we didn't get equally, except that in the media we can read these are macroeconomic projections in the term of this government, so I'm going to use the press data, I don't know if they're entirely accurate, but maybe I can illustrate some of the things that are going to happen in the future. What is the fact is, the deficit of the budget or the general government deficit will be reduced, but foreign debt will grow. Foreign debt will grow compared to gross social product, and what is particularly important, and that might be good for citizens to know, foreign debt will grow in US dollars. Foreign debt in US dollars, November 23rd, last year was somewhere at a level of 19.20 billion dollars. And in 2007, on November 23rd, if there are elections then, according to the Ministry of Finance's projections, it should be 31 billion US dollars. So the foreign debt in this government's mandate will grow by $9 to $12 billion depending on what number we agree on and what figure we will bid on it was January 23rd. And that's what to say. So this should tell citizens that in 2007, Croatia's foreign debt will be 31 billion dollars according to news, according to the projection of the macroeconomic policy of the Republic of Croatia. I'm a little worried about this budget rebalancing because I didn't understand, otherwise I'm doing these local budgets, and then inside I know that there should be exact figures, but I'm worried, for example, that some items are already over 100%, some 130%, and that in the budget plan for, therefore, rebalancing are projected at what they were before the execution, so on 100%. So, for example, you have the promotion of public needs programmes, i.e. the Croatian Olympic Committee realised, planned 30 million, realized 33, new plan 30 million. Encouragement of the Croatian Community of Technical Culture, plan 6 million 200 reached 7 million and 200, new plan 6 million and 200. Public interurban transport, it's basic schooling, plan 6, 200, in the first 6 months, new plan 6, 200. The question arises, therefore, what will be done in the other 6 months, especially in the case of inter-urban transport in primary school, which is realised in the first half of the total amount of 100%. And okay. Let's just say that there was some kind of oversight. But what concerns are items that have not been spent in the first six months and are planned and planned for some large amounts. For example, no kuna has been realized in the position of learning another foreign language and the item is 15 million kuna. I'm not sure that in four months from nine to three months, from nine to 12 we can spend that money. Why isn't that realized? The Italian language study item 7 million and 600 is not realised. And so on and so forth. What is particularly concerned are the items in the Ministry of Economy, items that should be marked by the promotion of entrepreneurship are not spent nor the kuna. So, for business zones, for business centres, for incubators, for crediting young people, for lending women, for subsidising the interest of entrepreneurs, the realization in the first 6 months is zero. No tender for entrepreneurship zones has been opened to this day, which means that it will obviously not start to realize up to nine months or nine months. And the question arises when will these smaller amounts that are foreseen in the budget be realised in the first place this year. And I appeal to the finance minister to speed up this process and push a little economy minister to finally bid for zones, incubators see the light of the day so that units of local self-government have enough time to prepare projects and so they can report to the competition, get those funds and spend those funds by the end of the year. Because it's going to happen that the local self-government unit is going to get funds in the 12th month when you can only clean snow in the entrepreneurship zone, you can't really build a municipal infrastructure at 12 months. Something about these statistical numbers. We all swear there's 30 grand less people at the Employment Service. And that's right, that's right, 30,000 people are less at the employment office, but no one's saying how many of these people are doing. When the former government said that the number of unemployed was reduced from 420,000 to 300, then the opposition then attacked it fiercely because it said it was administrative measures. So let's not go after grandmothers and frogs and talk about that if 30,000 people are less in the Employment Service that they're all unemployed, they're all employed. If that were the case, the income item would be increased from income tax. If indeed this economic growth is true, which has been said that in the first 6 months then it is equally likely on the income side that increased economic activity also creates higher taxes, so it should also be higher tax revenues from that base. But I'll be, I'll make a little joke you know about what my colleague said that in St. Sunday everything's been building now for the last six months. I'm surprised that in these few months, these 27 permits come out which otherwise Minister Hebrang says you need to do to start some entrepreneurial activity and we know that they haven't worked out “one, one stop shop agency” but well. You can't open a job overnight. It takes a lot, a lot more time to open up and it doesn't even matter who's responsible for it, it's important that the job opens up and I'd be glad if there were really all these 30,000 from the Employment Service if they weren't somewhere else but that they were in their jobs, getting paid, paying taxes and paying their obligations to the local community and that they could ensure a quality life for themselves and their own, for their family. One more thing about income. When my colleague Lelic discussed, she convinced me about the excise duties on cigarettes, but she convinced me that the increase in excise duty on tobacco products in the European Union reduces the consumption of cigarettes by 6-8% as far as I know. Therefore, according to her weight, we will be happy if we achieve the level of excise duty on tobacco products the way we originally had in the budget, and not what the Ministry is now predicting an increase in this. And I really expect you to refer the amendment to the Ministry of Finance, where you will advocate your thesis which you have so convincingly defended in the Law on excise duties against tobacco, tobacco processing, is it? What worries me and there probably the minister and I won't agree is, I'm sorry that he changed the thesis from the moment he was mayor now in, in, the role of minister, which is that he really went through the worst local self-government. The fact is that she couldn't be in debt, the fact that the rebalancing of the budget at the end of last year acquired the possibility of some 350 million total, total possible days of approval and the fact that this year has been projected some, slightly less than 480 million as far as I think it was said. And now instead of allowing local self-government development units to do it minimally with those, those 3% can be in debt and finance their local projects we're banging them 33% now. I don't think it's fair to the units of local self-government, especially since so far a guarantee has been given for Zadar 140, for Rijeka 60, there are 75 million left. I don't know how the government is going to split that 75 million into 19 requests the minister spoke of. I don't think it's correct. What I want to say in the end is that in the budget I was saying that Koprivnica and my county were forgotten by mistake, it was probably written twice by Koprivnica. The Koprivnica has now been crossed once and Koprivnica is being made, and Koprivnica and Koprivnica-Križevnica County produces over 2 billion taxes annually, contributions and excise duties and one item has been crossed. Koprivnica is mentioned in this State budget only once and for the biological purifier of a million kuna. Even the Centre for Social Care has been crossed and will not work as well as 300 thousand kuna for the Center for Social Care in the Crosses. I think it's the government's maternal relationship to Koprivnica and to Koprivnica-Krisjevac County which so generously and so zealously fills the State budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u16979	Hey, buddy, time.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u16980	Yeah, yeah. So until it stops blinking, right?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u16981	Look.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u16982	And I'm not talking about the fact that this secretary of state for school assured me that it's impossible to install new sports and school facilities in the Budget, and now we have a new hall in Valpovo to be built, but has not entered the school in Koprivnica where 85 classrooms attend classes in 23 classrooms. We are indeed talking about an unjust and totally wrong
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u16983	A fellow light stops blinking when you finish the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u16984	A completely wrong, completely wrong relationship with Koprivnica where... /The speaker is excluded/... standards that should have citizens of Koprivnica who so generously fill the State budget. I see a colleague, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u16985	Thank you very much. Me, I hope the other colleagues and colleagues respect the weather. Next up is representative Ivo Lonchar. Excuse me? Mr. Secretary has a need, I'm sorry, colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u16986	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Just for the sake of the Croatian public, some sort of exit came out again, I can't turn on and off the microphone. So for the sake of the Croatian public, we began to invent data again. The external debt of the Republic of Croatia at the end of last year was $24 billion. It is projected that in 2007, if some things don't change, they should be 31 billion. That's a four-year increase of $7 billion, but you forgot that foreign debt only increased by $8 and a half billion in 2003. But also as far as pathetics are concerned with local self-government units, local self-government units had all these projects in 2003, so they didn't get the possibility of borrowing but only at the end, and I said what was the problem. The problem is that for the first time in a consolidated balance sheet, there is a deficit of local self-government units. The deficit of the local self-government unit is now somewhere around 600 million kuna, 600 million kuna. And what no one will say and admit is that this budget reduces the country's deficit by 614 million kuna and reduces the government's debt by 440 million kuna. So that's the data you don't need to show. Another thing I'd like to say is it's not good when the data published by the State Statistics Institute when invented and not read as they are. That's the data they are. How a political person will evaluate the matter is an assessment of a political one at which someone thinks something needs to be said. Interestingly now that he finds you very much, this seasonally, disturbing seasonal employment, but for the past three years it has been an extraordinary economic success of an economic policy. Croatia, I, if I am not mistaken as a proposing, can look back on a few discussions, not just one. Is it so, Madam Vice President, so, therefore, as far as employment is concerned, we can look at unemployment and if we want to compare data then we have to use the same methodology, we have to use the same criteria, and as long as Croatia is relying on it, I hope it will be very, very long, on tourism then normal thing that seasonal employment in terms of tourism and agriculture will always have an impact on macroeconomic indicators but it is very interesting that all that is not good is a reflection of this government, and what is good is a reflection of the policy of the economy and the former. So let's say we tried to place the thesis that indifference, insolvency, non-payment in this country is the result of HDZ policy, and when certain macroeconomic indicators that are good appear, this is the result of Racan's policy. So if the indivisibility is the consequences of HDZ, then certain macroeconomic indicators are the same as that. Individence, and also when we talk about indifference, then you won't admit jobs that haven't been paid in recent years. It won't be recognised why HZE is raising 31.12. some kind of 100-million-dollar loan to cover the unpaid transactions of 2003. We're not going to talk about the irregularities of state finances, we're not going to talk about who was in the interest of four years not to resuscitate the Treasury. To whom it's in the interest of this country. All except those who don't want public and transparent finances. But the national risk definitely comes back with this government.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u16987	Thank you very much, Mr. Minister. We've got corrections on incorrect allegations that she's overlooked. This is fellow representative Tomljanović and colleague Fuček, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u16988	Good, since I answered later, I wanted to correct from my esteemed colleague, Mršić, the quote concerning employment which is therefore which was... So none of them claimed that out of the 30,000 people who were removed from the employment office that each of them had locked up the ugvor about work, real and real. But it is one statistical way of monitoring it as it has been in previous, previous times, when the other government was, therefore, a coalition government. But the positive trends are certainly shown in this statement compared to the end of May this year.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u16989	Thank you very much. Please don't get a colleague of Mršić from the bench. The next one is a colleague of Katarina Fuchek's.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u16990	Madam Vice-President, Mršić presented a very incorrect and very trendy foreign debt. Here's the exact data for the first quarter of this year. At the end of the real quarter this year, the total foreign debt of Croatia is $24.2 billion. Which makes 74% of the estimated gross social product. For this year. But what is important is that it is only increased by 1.2 and that is the result of the only increase in the foreign debt of business banks compared to the last month while the other sectors have a monthly decline. They're accurate data, and if we want to bring them up, then we can neither misread them. Because they are actually an indicator of movement and macro-economic policy and the environment in which this budget is brought. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u16991	Thank you very much, dear colleague. There was one correction to the inaccuracy of the minister's statement. Here you go, Comrade Skazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u16992	It's not exactly like what the minister claims to bother anyone with seasonal employment. On the contrary, I said every job is good and seasonal. But there is no need to rush, seasonal employment from the more permanent nature. And the right rate of incompetence, as far as permanent employment is concerned, will not be seen until 10 or 11 months.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u16993	Thank you very much, dear colleague. Let's move on. Representative Ivo Loncar, please elect a fellow representative, you're finally on your way.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u16994	Thank you. Dear Madam Vice President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen. I have to say, at first, that I'm a little surprised by this proposal to amend and supplement the state budget. I'm surprised first because of agriculture I'll talk about it as usual. The fact is that you give the Croatian state and the Croatian economy in an extremely difficult state, but I just can't understand it and I have to say that I'm uncomfortable surprised that the reductions in funds for agriculture. No matter what the minimum money is, but the economic branch does not need to reduce the funds, but the funds there need to be increased as much as possible. I'm going to say something now, I'm probably going to throw some anger at myself afterwards, but I'm giving myself the right to understand something a little bit in this economic branch. If I were you, I'd be able to raise the funds in agriculture for the next three years. He would even be prepared to put some of the basic investments that he is working with now in Croatia aside for a while and put the money in the farm, because we would need to have a place in the field, with the fact that he is a fundamental economic branch and in some way an economic branch that could be an economic orientation. We find very well that agriculture in Croatia has been systematically destroyed for more than 60 years, but what it has experienced in the past 13,14 years since we have our own country it is truly amazing. And the situation and what Croatian agriculture has been through over the past four years is more than tragic. I can only say some figures, and that's why I started to find that I'm uncomfortable surprised why the reduced funds from agriculture are. In the past 4 years, 31 billion kuna food has been imported into Croatia. At the same time, 9 billion kuna was inserted into the name of the incentive, and 6 billion kuna went to the recovery of the combinations. And today we have what we have, the growth of imports continues to grow. And in this word two great evils for Croatian agrarians are unnecessary and uncontributed imports of food and combined. And the only way we can solve all this is by having a more subtle relationship with agriculture. The fact is, and the economists know it, and so do we, as the ampasan would say, follow it, that no economy in the world and no country in the world has stabilised its economic system until it has solved the agriculturals. All over the developed world, agriculture is a fundamental economic branch. And whoever doesn't understand it then he can't even understand that economic branch. Oh, please, we know today in the world what a trend in food is. Food everywhere in the world is a monopoly. JFK's not a weapon. Well, thank God metaphorically speaking Croatia has so many weapons, but unfortunately, I can't think of what the people would say, we get the sense to start looking at that agriculture the way we should look at it. Regardless of any political world surveillance of all of us who are today in one way or another in politics, we all aim at the Eurospecies Union. But we can go to the European Union with this kind of agriculture in this economic state. Unfortunately, we can't. Here's what we know positively at first through incentives and subsidies, and here's a little change, and the structure has started to invest more in profitable cultures. We're not going to cereal anymore, for example, as we've been going from now on. If we don't start to increase right now and now the money for agriculture production, even these good things they've done over the past 5.6 months will come into question. Finally, I think that in Croatia, regardless of political world surveillance, agriculture should understand that it is a political and not an economic issue. Agriculture is spent everywhere in the world and should be treated in this way. And in our special terms. Because a long time ago, Croatian agronomic science and turquoise calculated that food can be produced in Croatia for more than 20 million people. And we are today the Croats the largest food importers in Europe compared to the number of inhabitants. And that's more than sad. Then, on the other hand, given that we have demographic growth in Croatia as we do, we do not only have political and economic farming, but it should first be a social and national issue. And that's the only way we can valorize that economic branch. Just before I said what our economic opportunities are, then there's this huge scientific expertise that really needs to be included in this economic branch. We have incredible conditions in organic farming, today in the world is an exceptional search for food and especially for eco-food. Everywhere in the world where there's food on some eco-marker it's 10 times more expensive to you than that food that's being produced conventionally. Here I'll just tell you one example of the Netherlands. The Netherlands is almost two and a half times smaller than Croatia. The Netherlands has about 39,000 square kilometers, and Croatia has almost 90 thousand square kilometers with the sea. Please, this is a nice piece of data for the past three years for every year. This Netherlands, which is almost two and a half times smaller than Croatia, and I assure you because I've been up there several times, that their natural possibilities for food production are at least five times worse than ours, but every year they have 60 billion dollars in their gross income. 60 billion dollars. They led to perfection in the production of seeds. We can also be their competitors, I can even assure you that we could be threatening them. In the production of flowers, I don't speak in vegetable production, fruit production, and in recent times they've tremendously forced ecological agriculture. You see today, when we look at Croatia as an organic, pure newborn, and you in that same Netherlands have 27 kilograms of residual in the open, so what is dissolved after chemicals is pure poison, and in the plastic, glassy production of 127 kilograms per FAO is allowed 6. And do you know what the average is in Croatia? Under two kilos. And at last, someone needs to take care of it. Then Croatia, unlike any other European country, can produce everything it needs and, of course, even more in the structure of agricultural production, so just not tropical and subtropical fruit. So more than 90%, none of the countries in Europe can do that, and that's why agriculture needs to be looked at with different eyes. One more thing. In Croatia, 2 million people are in one way or another related to agricultural production and one who understands that in the next 20 years, one who understands Croatian village and agriculture will rule Croatia because it must finally be understood that no social group of Croatian societies is so robbed and robbed as peasants and finally needs that economic branch and all those who participate in it to restore dignity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u16995	Thank you very much, dear colleague. The next is MP Zeljka Antunovic. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u16996	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. The reasons for the changes and additions to the state budget in the materials that we have received are to indicate the continuation of the fiscal adjustment process and the elimination of quasi fiscal operations. Also, the reason for the changes and additions to the state budget are to indicate an increase in some of the expenditures that fall from first to last in the category of public spending. I will try to make my contribution to this debate, but I will contribute as little time as possible because there is a large number of people reported for this debate, and it is expected of all of us here to pass some more important laws, and all of us within an inappropriately short period of time and after an accelerated procedure, so I will not repeat what has already been said here recently, there at the 3rd month when the budget was passed, when we discussed this budget, when we were very well-intentioned, although we were waiting for the knife, we warned of some of its shortcomings and the consequences that will result. That's when we said, gentlemen, if you insist on this budget, there'll be rebalancing, and you said there's no way we're going to come down into these frames, it's going to reduce spending, there's going to be unnecessary expenditure, there's not going to be rebalancing. But here it shows today, the rebalance is here, we were right. You are then, or today, saying that the rebalancing is happening because of the alleged unprincipled height of the deficit. I really already do, and I think that even together, it pisses me off, and I can think how annoying those who listen to us are, repeating that deficit story. I hope that at least one of us can agree that the deficit story is over when this House adopted a document on the implementation of the state budget on a proposal from the Government. If you think that story isn't over, then I'm sure we'll be able to discuss the deficit there somewhere in 2007 or 2008, and those who are malicious, those who use the deficit as an excuse for their impotence and then be able to mention that period, and the deficit always refers to the current year. When that year is over he's a finished story, it's pointless to mention and discuss it. It can be used as an element of new budget planning, but still only for next year. We've brought the budget, we're bringing the budget rebalance now, okay. If there's some kind of increased deficit compared to the plans when you've been making the budget bigger, because the final accounts have been made, then we can appreciate that. But beyond that, gentlemen is ridiculously declassified, demagogy and nothing and no one benefits. I'll look back on the deficit and the story. We heard earlier that the deficit was reduced in this rebalancing by 640 million kuna. Right, nobody ignores it, it's part of your policy, and if you think it's good for the development of this country, you suggest it. We don't think that what you've suggested here, and together with this deficit reduction, is the best ideal solution. It is ideal for those for whom you did it, it is ideal for the IMF, not just us and the professional public, here yesterday the Competitiveness Council warns that fiscal policy is not working because of the IMF and not just because of an IMF that should not be ignored, but should not be subordinated to it. That's why the deficit doesn't need to be, and at least not for you in the government, a lady horn. It's perfectly normal to finance development from the deficit. That's what a lot of countries do. This is done on purpose or by managing the deficit and by very rich and developed countries, so I don't know why Croatia should only lead this moment, taking into account the overall circumstances of budget only, only this deficit through this budget. At the same time, through this budget, and through this rebalancing, through the previous budget and budget rebalancing, giving up some major development projects. He gives up because he simply doesn't finance them or he doesn't fund them enough. He's giving up because he's late and he's more than abstention in joining their realisation, and that's bad. If we are talking about this, and I think we agree that it is important to reduce public spending, then we must be committed to making structural changes in this state spending, that the users of this budget are restructured and that this can be done exclusively through investment. Insufficient investment, investment delays, zero items on budget implementation wherever new capital investments are concerned show that this is not going well. Go a little bit by budget, I won't go into details, go through the budget and you'll see an incredibly large number of items that haven't been made in the first half of the year with a single kuna. And it is well known that it is projects that are not planned but are ready for certain stages of realization. Someone's not doing their job. Someone in the ministries doesn't do their job or someone simply doesn't know what's expected in those ministries, what's actually going to be done and what's not going to be done. When we talk about these projects, I will only stick to something I think was and remains subordinated to the budget of the Republic of Croatia. It is about investing in information power, not only in information infrastructure but also in projects, information programmes that can make the country both cheaper and more efficient and transparent and with everything else. Instead of having that HT profit you're transferring to cover and deficit reduction, you'd better have invested in these projects that are currently ahead of the finalisation phase hanging like a spell in heaven or on earth and no one knows what's going to happen to them. Neither did they give up on them, nor did they give up on what they do. I will mention the Ministry of Health, which is a great consumer, a ministry that spends a great deal of money, but is constantly spinning around and offering no useful solutions. They are also concerned that restructuring means investing, not going crazy, as it is happening right now. You just can't have sheep and money. If you want money then you won't have development, and if you want development then you have to be ready and able to isolate from the budget to encourage that development. I will also mention the Ministry of Defense and once again warn you that it is a resort that is planned, it has already transferred the planned items in this execution and you are reducing it, not significantly, but you are still cutting it down and it will all be recognised as bad moves at the end of the year. It's bad that you're reducing the separation for science, if at what point should you insist on young scientific money that still has a chance to change something in our science. And finally, it was said here, I think, all that sort of warns me. I'm sorry you're not listening and I'll see you at the end of the year.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u16997	Thank you very much. We have corrections to an incorrect quote. The first one is a colleague of Ivana Sučec-Tracostanec.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u16998	Yes, Madam Vice President. I am correcting the incorrect allegation, or three such that the liabilities of the past years were allegedly created, supposed to be an excuse for the adoption of these budgets, and it was then repeated by returning to that topic, called ridiculous and demagogue. It's hardly supposed to be, it's real obligations. They are not funny and it is not demagogue to say that the commitments have been an increase in the financial plan without the approval of the Hague Parliament 1.12 billion kuna. In October of last year, the Ministry of Finance paid 530m kuna to HAK since the contracted 760. That the Ministry of Public Works realised 567 million kunas through HABOR without being shown in the budget. That the unpaid liabilities had reached the large drug industry amounted to 530 million kuna, etc., etc. So these are real not alleged and very serious, not at all demagogue obligations that this budget must present this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u16999	Thank you very much, colleague. Another correction. A fellow representative, Ivan Bagarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17000	Thank you, Madam Vice President. As a doctor, an esteemed colleague of the public health specialist, I hold that I have insight and knowledge of what is done at the Ministry of Health, saying that there is no craziness there, but that the funds are rationalized and the existing ones are rationally used and that is a very reasonable matter, I would say, and no craziness. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17001	Thanks a lot, buddy. Let's move on. A colleague of Milanka Opačić. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17002	Mr. Minister, Madam Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Well, first of all, I would like to say that this budget rebalancing shows that there is no fulfillment of the HDZ's first pre-election guarantee, which is an increase in the population's standard of living and that unfortunately there is no one you, Mr. Schucker, promised before you took over the office of Minister of Finance, which is that you will enter and you will end up somewhere in the gray zone and draining money past the budget. So far, you can't see that you've done it. I really wish you good luck to succeed, because I think it is unfair that individuals really get very rich in exploiting certain resources in this country, and that we on the other hand have problems making one budget that would meet all the needs of our citizens. So here's what I really want for you, and I hope that in next year's second budget projection, we'll see maybe the results of you coming in and you've started to better control the so-called grey zone. Unfortunately, not only in this budget, but also in this fiscal projection by 2007 that there was no reduction in VAT, which was also a pre-election promise, but it is also evident that some items were poorly planned and that, in part, we need to rebalance the budget. This budget reduces some items. I'm going to say here that it seems to me that it went completely unfairly to cut the item by three very important institutions. She's one of the attorneys for children whose assets are cuts, the attorney general's office for gender equality, and the staff's attorney, all three very important institutions, but I will specifically refer to the child's attorney. However, I think that they will miss this money that you took off because it is a very specific defendership for the rights which, therefore, care for the protection of children's rights, where, where you can't expect those children to come to Zagreb and that they will seek protection of their rights here. So it's a specific job where the lawyer and her assistants and all those who work in that office must primarily go to children, so they would say schools, kindergartens, or any other, therefore, places where children are. Therefore, they have to travel a lot in Croatia and it is not about one administrative job in which they are sitting only in Zagreb. So I'm afraid that these funds will still be missing, and I'm not sure that something very much saved you in this rebalancing state budget. Of course, in this budget there are also those funds that have been completely deleted, which have been completely taken away from some institutions and I must say that when the ministers in the government agreed and when it was found out that the social care portfolio under Minister Hebrang, a good part of the social care system was very unhappy because they said that Mr Hebrang would put somewhere in, it would be said, in the background of social care relative to health care. Unfortunately, this budget shows exactly that, in this case, Mr Hebrang did not have feelings for a system of social care that is in very difficult condition and that he agreed that at as many as 12 social care centres, the funds for any improvement in work in those centres were completely taken away. So there are no funds until the end of the year that were planned for the center for social care Nasice, Osijek, Koprivnica, Zlatar Bistrica, Vinkovci, Velika Gorica, Valpovo, Trogir, Sibenik, Pula, Novska, Križevci. Unfortunately, there is no money for some changes in the home in Mali Lošinj, unfortunately this House is famous for some of the ugly things that happened there, and I'm sorry that just in such a single nursing home, it gave up any investment when the Sustra doesn't give up the same thing, we'll talk again in the papers, we'll talk again on television, but here in the budget Mr. Hebrang has failed to choose to remain on that item the funds that are planned. The funds planned for a home for mentally ill adults in Trogir are also deleted. For the Centre for Education and Education Juraj Bonaqi in Split, for the Centre for Rehabilitation Ozalja Jaskovo, for the Center for Education Slava Raskaj, there is no more money for the Centre for Education and Education Slava Raskaj in Split, there is no money for the therapeutic community for addicts of the Prince and I have to say what touched me a lot is that last time we brought a budget here, we opened a debate about a home for unsettled children in Slavonski Brod where for the equipment of the apartment for deinstitutionalisation or better said the moment the children left home, it was about children who had no family, so we prayed that for this apartment the small funds were increased, Minister Hebrang said here that he had no funds but that he would do anything to find any additional funds. I'm sorry that now the only thing Mr. Hebrang has done is reduce that House for Children in Slavonski Brod by 300 thousand kuna. They also fully took the money for the establishment and purchase of the care and assistance center’s equipment in the house. We were here the other day when we talked about the system of the state administration about the need for reform both in the system and others, I am sorry that in this budget we gave up further reform of the social care system because the money in that item has been completely deleted so there is no more resources to continue reforming the social care system which I think is very bad. Some colleagues here before me have talked about how new projects, how no lip has been spent in the past six months, and I have to say that in the Ministry of the Adriatic Ministry, there are a lot of programmes intended primarily for children and young people, that others have not been spent, so none of them are in the position of these programmes, so for support for programmes aimed at children, young people, none of them have been spent in the past six months, which means that nothing is seriously working on that plan. I will repeat again once again, everyone is very happy to talk about it in the media, everyone is very involved in the story about how it is for children, how it is for young people, the problems they have, however, when we have money and when we need to work concretely and have concrete programmes, nothing is going on, and here is the money standing and children and young people have very big problems in this country. At the point, only 4000 and 50 kuna were spent in the family of the millions and 300 thousand kunas that were foreseen over the past 6 months, which means only 0.31%. This is, therefore, a topic which is very much discussed in Croatian media, which is very much involved with the wishes of certain ministers and ministers, but the money spent on protecting the abused in the family on specific projects and programmes in that part does not have a concrete effect on all of this. Of course, I can't go through the budget without stopping at something that's very important, primarily about our citizens, primarily about children, it's about the alimony fund and something that's left here again in the amount of 20 million kuna. Unfortunately, I'm afraid that nothing of it is left of this amount but it won't be spent, so there's no way that we can pass the law by 9 months and that such a single fund is operating over the next three months of this year, so that's what's left, but I'm afraid it's no use from that money. And in the end, I would also like to say that these unspent money is being displayed through the entire Ministry of Economy, primarily all positions for the development of small and medium enterprises, not one programme in that part has been realised, not one lip in the past 6 months has been spent and, as a result of all this, I will tell you, for example, on the promotion of women's entrepreneurship, where, for example, a million and a half kuna in the first six months has not been spent. As a result, 58.5% of women were registered unemployed at the end of the 6th month of this year. As far as I've been tracking statistics in the last 30 years, this is for the first time one large percentage in the total number of unemployed women, one indicator that should be used as soon as possible to activate this credit line that helps women enter the world of work, to become entrepreneurs, and thus to ensure their primary work to themselves and then, in a certain period of time, some new employees. Nor has any lip been spent on youth employment incentives, what must be the priority of each government and this, and this is the creation of new jobs, small and medium-sized enterprises have produced good results in the past 4 years, and everyone knows that investment in small and medium-sized enterprises is the best investment that can give a very large number of new jobs.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17003	Thank you very much, dear colleague. Correction of the net allegations, Representative Matušić, please welcome.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17004	My colleague Opačić made a completely incorrect claim based on reading the results for the first 6 months that Mrs Kosor's ministry was not seriously doing anything. It is simply not true, and such an assessment is indeed flat-rate, first of all, because it is a year-on-year amount, we all know that the budget applies for the whole year, secondly it is a new ministry and of course it is necessary to prepare complete documentation related to all projects, to make sure that all this money is spent on these items in the ministry, be assured that those users who expect help from this ministry will receive it in the way it is here and planned.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17005	Thank you very much, dear colleague. Another correction to the incorrect quote, Representative Plesko, please elect a colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17006	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Ms Milanka Opačić said that no funds were used in the part of small and medium-sized entrepreneurship to encourage entrepreneurship for women and young people I have to correct it in that part which the tenders for these support were at the end of last 2003, as loans were realised, while the programme entered, while loans were being paid off because the benefits were massively used without periods of 6 months to 2 years, it is normal that they could not be entered into the process and that they were then paid off from that part. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17007	Thank you very much. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17008	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Madam Vice President, you are once again allowing the correction of the exact allegations. That's what I was talking about, Article 209(1), 2nd, for example.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17009	So please, without for example, but we have an article, let us not treat the Rules of Procedure that we have brought. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17010	Yes, that's exactly what I'm asking you not to behave like that, that you don't allow colleagues from the HDZ Club to correct what's right. My colleague Milanka mentioned, as I said, of 39 projects nominated for a small economy in the first term, no kuna was paid in this year, and that is simply true. That's what we have here in these books. And my colleague, I invite you to read the materials that the Government has given, or correct the Government.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17011	Thank you very much, dear colleague. Let's move on with the debate. Please be quiet. The next one is Dragutin Lesar. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17012	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Discussing the budget last time and now on rebalancing, several times it was said that we must finally start saving in Croatia, in order to have more money for the necessary programmes. The rebalancing of this budget has 662 pages of paper, and if I count only the minimum price of its multiplication in only 200 copies as clearly goes for Parliament's needs, this is why a cost of a minimum of 27 thousand kuna was made. If we'd gotten this same rebalancing on the CD, the state's cost would have been 600 kuna. 200 pieces of 600 kuna. If the congregation services don't have a fryer for this, I'll find or personally buy a fryer and in the future so we can get on this medium to save money. With the state budget, revenues were planned at 79 million, expenditure 81. Now with a rebalance of 82 million, 82 billion, thank you colleagues, income and 83 billion expenses, so we can discuss 3 billion new revenues and 2 billion in roughly new expenditures. By reading the budget I gave myself the effort and I was actually interested in seeing which positions were shrinking, so somewhere they increased it was clear already when the rebalancing was announced that there would be an increase in those items that were consumption. But I was interested in where the funds were being reduced compared to what we found four months ago. The first item, the Fund for Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons, where 24 million were planned, has been reduced by 2 million and 300, and the first six months have not been used for that purpose. Somewhere around 30,000 of the most difficult people in Croatia are waiting for this Fund to work, whether for rehabilitation or for a new job. The rate of agriculture in total decreases by €39 million and I did not continue to analyse those items, as I knew it would be the biggest expert for Croatian agrarian in Parliament by my colleague Loncar. He said he was uncomfortablely surprised by the rebalancing, and I'm sure he'll surprise someone and won't vote for this rebalancing. The Transport Safety Council, it reduces about 991 thousand and leaves 682,000 for the whole year in a situation where we warn that road safety is at its lowest point and that we have to do something urgent. The stock reserves are down 2 million 400, but I thought it would be transferred to rebuild the stock reserves, but that's not what was proposed. The customs office reduces the means to prevent drug abuse and leaves only 238 thousand kuna for the whole year. The Parliament's information is reduced by 200 thousand, leaving a million kuna, most of which are spent, so from the electronic vote this year, certainly nothing. The intelligence agency is shrinking 3.5 million kunas, as apparently these intelligence officers should do nothing by the end of the year. The item of the natural disaster is planned with 5 million kuna for all of Croatia for the whole year. The damage from the fights in northwestern Croatia so far is estimated to exceed 60 million kuna. The water economy is shrinking by 18 million, so flood defenses. Irrigation for 13 million and it's only 6 million for the whole year. And in health care items that are reduced, education against HIV, prevention of HIV, and voluntary testing of HIV, early detection and treatment of addiction, testing of food and water health regularity, prevention of alcoholism in young people and disposal of special hospital waste. So all that is prevention and action in advance, which is a reduction in subsequent expenditure costs is reduced and, ultimately, preschool education is reduced by 6 million and so much about demographic policy in this budget. And allow only two remarks about the Budget Implementation Act. A change in the article on the quota or amount of funds is proposed when the Government gives consent to the units of local and regional self-government and from 3% of the total local self-government revenue achieved is reduced to 2%. So one-third. A total debt of 12 billion in the debt of local and regional self-government is 1 billion, so 12 total debt. Half of which is the city of Zagreb. And now with this proposal, we reduce by 33% all municipalities, cities and counties the possible amount of debt regardless of the importance of the programmes and projects involved, regardless of the majority of these projects, half or even most of the funds of municipalities and cities and counties invest their own resources and whatever state of performance is the project that should be financed by credit. The only criterion left is that whoever's first or who's closer will get the consent, while the rest have to wait for the uncertainty next year of the new law and the new criteria that we'll obviously get from Washington. And secondly, the government also proposes an article, a new article in this 40a law. under which the Government would have the power to redistribute between the items of the budget and pay, material expenditure, subsidies, aid and the acquisition of non-financial assets, in order to implement the total budget. So, between these items. These items in this budget total 32 billion. If this law is passed. The government will have the authority to redistribute 32 billion kuna items. Without having to make such a decision to redistribute between the items to the Croatian Parliament's verification. The budget is 81, 82, 32 billion redeployed by the government and so much for the transparency of this year's budget that we all swore to. I won't take any amendments to the rebalancing this time because I know they don't have a chance to be adopted and I'm asking MPs III. the electoral units that are members of the ruling coalition that this time they try to elect amendments to fund those projects that are under way, which have been agreed for these three counties of Krapinska, Varazdinska and Međimurska so as not to come into question at the end of the year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17013	Thank you very much, colleague. One correction to an incorrect quote, MP Jarnjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17014	Not only the representative of Lesar, but otherwise all those who speak say it's spent from this budget in the first six months. That's not true. This budget has been in effect since 1 April, which means three months and until then it was temporary financing, for the sake of knowledge.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17015	Thank you very much, colleague. I think there are mechanisms to correct an incorrect quote. It's not from the bench at all. The next is MP Kapraljevic. Here you go, buddy!
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17016	Thank you, Vice President. Mr. Minister who's not here, colleagues and colleagues! I will begin with a letter sent by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on 11 December 2003 to the Government Secretary, Mrs. Jagoda Premužic. It is the subject "Project of consolidation of the computer-information system and the construction of the portal of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Mrs Premužić, in addition to the project in question, which, together with the proposal for the conclusion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, provided the Secretariat of the Croatian Parliament with the Act and so on "December 10, 2003". Please introduce the project in question to the next Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia." And not to mention, it's about the project I have here. It's a contract that the government, the former government signed with Microsoft, it's a project that we Parliamentarians should have been able to apply for discussions by electronic means, not on paper as we do now. It is the vailles technology in which Demetrova, who is currently under renovation, should also be networked, which is about many other opportunities that we, as parliamentarians, would have had if the project had come to life. It's about 13 million kunas that I don't see in this budget, I don't see them because in the items that are set for informing the Parliament not to have them, but 200 thousand kuna has been taken down. And as for the Agency for I Croatia or E Croatia as the Central State Office for E Croatia there is also the same situation, so there are no 13 million kunas there either. That's what I'm saying for the reasons that Mr. Lesar mentioned, that we're very soon not going to vote on these keys that we have in front of us, and I also don't know how those other ones that are going to solve the state's office and what the ministries of their programming solutions are because as far as I can see, wherever it is about computer programs, it's all either deleted to zero or reduced to a minimum. I don't know, maybe the ministry gentlemen learned how to program, so they'll do these programs themselves, which is probably how it is, or they'll probably have some volunteers working on those programs. So much for informing and about our journey to the Information Age. Now I would also mention the Food Agency that we all talked about here two, three months ago as about decentralisation of the state when we mentioned that the Food Agency should be established in Osijek and now, with the first budget, predicted 6 million kuna. I believe that the Agency should have been established in Zagreb by chance in order to be established by today, but since it is established in Osijek not without being founded but is now being stripped of another 3.5 million kuna. I think it's a good example of decentralisation and a desire to carry out decentralisation. I would not mention all that is mentioned by my colleague Opačić in relation to social care centres and those that have been designated for those welfare centres, but in any case I would like to list those places that are being taken away so that those people who work there know that in Ozlje, in Križevci, in Pula, Sibenik, in Trogir, in Valpovo, in Velika Gorica, in Vinkovci, in Zlatar Bistrica, in Nasice, they have nothing to expect from this budget for social care centres because everything they are destined for has been deleted. I told the hive I think. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17017	Here you go, fellow MP, you can talk further.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17018	So, all of you, all of what was planned in the welfare center budget doesn't have that. Then I would also like to mention a big problem which, if that song is true, which is sung by the Dirty Theatre when they say "The Rain of the Fall" if the fall rains go very likely that we can swim everything from Sisak to Županja, i.e.. that we have floods in the whole area because in the division of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and the Water Economy, a reduction in the budget of 18 million and 257 thousand kuna has been shown in the water economy. As this item provides for a amount of 100 million and 340 thousand kuna and is intended for the regular maintenance of water protection buildings on state waterways. As the income of the Croatian waters or the substitution of the abolished water contribution from 998 under the Law on the financing of the water economy, I am obliged here to warn that the same item in the management plan of the Croatian Waters for 2004 was brought by the Administrative Council of Croatian Waters appointed by this current government and I have it here in my hand larger by 125 million kuna. The total amount is minimum necessary for the maintenance of over 2,000,400km of dikes and other water buildings. Normally, it is the largest part in Slavonia and Baranja and in the northern part of Croatia. There are no such objects by the sea. The high water levels of this spring have further questioned the stability of water structures and thus increased the risk of the consequences of future high water levels without talking about the fact that in the event of irregular maintenance of the costs of the same multiple rises. By the way, I would like to point out that Croatian waters inform the Government of the Republic of Croatia of the need to invest in the regular maintenance of waterways on state waterways of €400 million per year, which is why Croatian waters have produced an emborate. And finally to mention another thing that surprises me in this rebalancing process, which is the Croatian Mine Action Centre. I've seen that when you're making a rebalancing, you're led to it if someone hasn't used it, so let's take a little something. So if consumption was below 50% then it was taken and reduced. However, at the Croatian Mine Action Centre 197 million and 600,000 kuna were spent, 100 million were spent, meaning more than 50%. And then I don't understand the logic by which this mine action center is now being taken by a million and 400 thousand kuna. By the way, that's also the part that applies to Slavonia and Baranja and the large areas are still under mines and I don't understand that nobody wants us to end the mines and start working our fertile land.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17019	Thank you very much, colleague. We also have one correction to the incorrect assumption. Fellow representative Ivanka Roksandić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17020	Thank you, Madam Vice President, but I would like to correct the incorrect assumption that I have already heard this second time, first from Mrs Opacic, and then here's from colleague Kapraljevic. I'll try to quote, "All that was planned for the welfare center is not in this rebalancing.". Unfortunately, my colleague, if you read it correctly, and you mentioned a center that's in my jurisdiction, Sisak-Moslavina County. That's not true. You're cheating on the public because you think everything's been lifted. Not all are suspended for regular activity. They were abolished, I'm sorry, I didn't interrupt you, they were the only ones, those activities and adaptations and reconstructions on business facilities that didn't even start at the moment, and nothing more than centers that you didn't cheat on.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17021	Thank you very much, colleague. I'm asking you not to throw away your colleague. Let's move on. Comrade Doric, come in. Miljenko Doric.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17022	Madam Vice President, colleagues and fellow MPs. I am in this House for the first time and allow me first one principled objection in terms of mode of work. Namely, each of us here has arrived thanks to the support of 10 to 20 thousand voters and each of us here has reached the support of 10 to 20 thousand voters and it would be clear that we have at least when it comes to such a significant document as budget or budget rebalance enough time to consult not all of those citizens but at least those institutions in our constituencies to which this rebalancing applies. To hear their opinion, to represent them here in truth, not to represent what we think they think we're trying to say. To get a draft budget just 3 days before this debate, or 1 working day before the debate, I think it is absolutely unacceptable, and I want to apologize first to all those people and institutions to whom this rebalancing applies in VIII. The election unit because I haven't been able to contact them, consult. Secondly, I would like to say that, I was in the Primorje-Gorski County president of the County Assembly in three terms. And I had no idea to send a draft budget or budget rebalance for at least 10 days before I scheduled a session of the County Assembly. It also occurred to me, Madam Vice-President, that not all members of the county government from the mayor to the last member of the headship are present at that session when the budget or rebalancing is discussed. There's only one minister sitting here today. Well done, Minister Shuker, he's been here all day with us, I don't mind he's not here right now and he has his physiological needs.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17023	The minister's in the hall.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17024	I don't mind, I said, I don't mind but I do mind that at least the representatives of the other ministries are present here, we're discussing specific matter, and Mr. Shucker, Minister Shuker, we can't expect him to know all the reasons, the elements why certain shifts here are proposed. So, colleagues and colleagues, in front of us, I'd say instant budget rebalancing. The citizens, as always when it comes to budget and budget rebalancing, expect much. They expect to solve those key problems and issues that they face in everyday life, that is what our workers and our students and our lovers and our housewives and our pensioners, and our disabled, etc., etc. I believe that none of our citizens are unrealistic and unobstructed and they certainly don't expect us to solve all the problems in this society overnight. I also believe that all of them will agree with yesterday's statement by Prime Minister Sanader that we must cover ourselves as long as the blanket is due. We'll all agree to that. However, with this finding, citizens are probably asking a number of questions as we do here today. In fact, these same citizens that the prime minister addressed, they know very well about the outer skin they feel in what kind of environment they live in. I don't have to go into detail today, I've been carefully serving 18, 19 speakers at this point before me and the finding that we live in a country whose gross social product per capita today is only 10% higher than that of 89. That we live in a country that has five times less export per capita than we do in neighbouring Slovenia. To live in a country that is expected to have a significant lower growth in this year than last year. To live in a country where there's a large number of people without a job. To live in a country with the exception of Switzerland among... Last entry into the European Union. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] To live in a country that is 9th among transition countries by the number of Internet connections. If so, then it would be logical to move strategically towards solving all these, clearly, perceived shortcomings and corrections should be directed in the direction. Clearly, the promotion of Croatian economy, exports, investment in our country, employment, judicial reform, fostering agricultural production, Croatian Adriatic orientation, faster adaptation to European legislation, scientific technological development, state administration reforms, etc., etc. All of us here are 152 of us, at one point or another, repeating that these are the directions in which we have to go, but look at these 600 pages of rebalancing. As far as we can find these very elements in this rebalancing. I argue that this budget and budget rebalancing will not meet the expectations of our citizens in any of these areas. I repeat in none of these areas that I've listed. I asked my colleagues from the HNS Club, the PGS not to make amendments, they wouldn't be accepted anyway, but in this case I think it's a conceptual mistake and a budget in April that we've made, and now especially when it comes to budget rebalancing. As a parliamentary representative who came to these benches from one of the Croatian scientific teaching institutions, I have no right to support the rebalancing because of an unacceptable relationship precisely with science, education and in general on the development of this country. My colleagues before me have said so, so I will also brief Mršić, Stazic, Pupovac, Radoš and others. We have reduced funds to elementary schools by about 6 million, secondary schools by 3 million, science and higher education by 16, pardon, by 18 million of which 13.5 million just scientific recruits for that branch on which the scientific future of the country depends, where we all swear to build on it the future and development of Croatia. Don't tell me, I beg you, just answer that that's the way it was in the last term. What was in the last term goes to the shame of that assembly of Parliament and that government, what is happening today goes on to my shame and your shame. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17025	Thank you very much, colleague. Now it's time for my colleague, Dear Zgrebec, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17026	Madam Vice President, representatives of the Ministry, colleagues and colleagues. If we analyze this budget a little bit better and ask ourselves a question, we ask ourselves what the objective of this rebalancing is then from the reasoning, but also from the way it conjectures it, the goal is to reduce the deficit and how do we do it? This does not seem to increase the competitiveness of the domestic economy, it does not seem to be by encouraging investment and increasing the social gross product because it remains on those same growth projections as it was when this budget was adopted. Then it seems to me that the deficit reduction is treated as a sacred cow, as a goal and purpose itself. It should be reduced not by taking care of the medium and long-term consequences but only by what will happen this year. It is treated as if we are already a member of the European Union, or even of the European Monetary Union, as if we have enough domestic accumulations and are not discussing the dilemma of what the deficit comes from? Does it come from overconsumption or result from the fact that we have development projects? And how it wants to achieve, or how it achieves a 3.1% deficit of social gross product, as mathematically and accountingly demonstrated to us here. It is achieved in a way to extract years of profits from state-owned companies, to increase taxes, in this case excise duties, to reduce or abandon development and incentive projects, to reduce borrowing which is not bad, but, at the same time, to announce the introduction of increased participations that will be paid by citizens for certain rights, such as health care for which they already pay through social contributions. Bookkeeping will achieve a reduction in deficits in 2004 but the question is what will we do in the coming years. In 2005, we may sell the rest of the national portfolio and thus maintain a low deficit, but what will be in 2006 and 2007, in which state the Croatian economy will then be unable to give the right answer at this time, but it would be good if the Government had provided us with a fiscal projection by 2007 that we would not have to inform ourselves about it from the newspapers, so perhaps we could say something more about future budgets. And when we analyze revenues and expenditures after this, this is how the proposed rebalance is then we see that there are no significant shifts from all revenues and all expenditures, compared to even the 2003 budget. In fact, our taxes, tax revenues, we're increasing here by about 8%. From 45 billion made in 2003 to slightly less than 48 billion under this plan. It is interesting that taxes and income taxes are left at the same level as if they were not going to be either at all, or there really will be no salary increases in 2004, slightly, minimally growing income from profit taxes, from value added tax also around 8% compared to those achieved in 2003, which means that some major real growth in transport will not be. However, excise duties are interesting. There were a lot of stories about how to control the gray, black market, how it would be a better charge, and we now actually have compared to the initial plan for 2004 a reduction in excise duties of 251 million kuna despite the fact that there are plans to increase revenues to special ones, from special taxes on tobacco processing and to personal cars, vehicles, vessels and aircraft. So, despite having this kind of increase, we're actually going to have a decrease relative to the initial plan, which can actually just draw the conclusion that planning at the beginning of the calculation wasn't realistic. The worst situation actually in revenue is that in this budget, or this year, all dividends will be withdrawn, so all for state gains in HT and others in other companies and here, if we compare the execution in 2003, there were only 420 million kunas, unlike the current 2 billion and 495 million. And it wouldn't be so terrible if it didn't actually get all over the cover of the increased expenditures. Most of it is subsidies for the Croatian railway which are actually introduced into the budget in this way, while at the same time the sources of financing for the development of railways and these fixed costs, or on a regular basis, the operating costs, will need more and more of them from the budget instead of reducing them because of certain investment projects and investments in Croatian railways. And, of course, part two on financial liabilities. I don't think it's a good policy, so it's better if in some other instruments we try to reduce the deficit and it doesn't necessarily have to be 3.1% in 2004. When we analyze some other projects then it was already said here that in reality there is virtually no project relating to the economic sphere. No funds have been spent for either medium and small enterprises related to investments, land management, or irrigation. Some funds are completely abolished, such as horizontal support for the food or processing industry, and we know that agriculture cannot function at all if there is no such link between agriculture and the food industry. There will be no local projects either, because it will reduce the possibility of borrowing especially in the second half of this year because it has actually exhausted all the possibilities that are actually limited by the budget law to 3%, and they are now shrinking to 2%. The budget does not even provide funds for signed contracts. Here, we were assured that all signed contracts and contracts signed earlier years would be realised. I'll show something later in my presentation that's not true. So the deficit reduction is in one interaction with a reduction in economic growth, and when we have a reduction in economic growth, then we have a tax increase. And I'd like to say in these two minutes more about some of the projects that are in my county that we have signed contracts, and they're not being realised. It relates to the disposal of wastewater, in three of our places, where we have signed contracts in 2002 and 2003. No funds are provided for the sewerage of the Sundays, Cats or the Savska Vesu. No funds have been provided for a primary school in Kotoriba, which is already ahead of the selection of the most favourable bidder. We don't have the resources in the budget for the last war to buy a building in Čakovec for the needs of a high school teacher. For which two wars are paid the third is not. We don't have enough funds or resources under contract for a general hospital in Čakovec. And we don't have the means to adapt the building for the needs of the county court in Čakovec. So as far as these local projects are concerned, their borrowing is reduced, no funding is provided for projects for which they already have contracts. And we can't even talk about new projects. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17027	Thank you very much to my colleague. One correction to the incorrect quote, Mr. Markovanovic, please welcome.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17028	Here I think it's.../the speaker's off/... If it wasn't true there wasn't going to be an investment, there might be some less investment due to borrowing. But only one example from 2002. Eight months is the municipality of St. Sunday waited for the finance ministry's permission because local SDPe sent a request to the ministry not to approve it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17029	Thank you very much. Injury of the Rules of Procedure of Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17030	Article 209 has been injured. Rules of Procedure, I wasn't talking about projects at all in St. He couldn't even correct me for a week.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17031	Let's move on. My colleague Miroslav Korenik, be my guest.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17032	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Minister. I must say that there are several reasons why I will not support the proposal of this rebalancing because I remember the debate vividly when the budget for this year was passed and the assurances exactly from the majority coalition's bench that everything will be honey milk and everything will go for the spaghetti. We had as the introduction of today's session and as a preparation for budget rebalancing and excise debate. And I can't get the impression out of myself and no one can convince me that this government is contributing to the rich. The excise duty especially on cars affects the segments of the cheapest cars and prevents or makes it impossible to buy cheap cars, while excise duties on expensive cars are far lower in the percentage part than it is for expensive cars. It seems to me, and I'm surprised that in this sowing of yours, you haven't taxed yourself with excise duties and other things. Let's remember the coffee, why people would end up drinking coffee, it's her and it hurts the heart and everything. I wonder why you didn't go with alcohol you could extend your excise duties to other things that were then spoken of. Of course, PDV is already talking about crows on the head about how you're starting to boldly reduce VATE, so you quit. But that's why you take extremely brave dividends from successful Croatian companies that will not develop, at the heart of it, but well that's your strategy and we can understand that that's how it is. In addition to the fact that indifference or non-payment to this country is growing, you, Mr. Minister, wanted to admit it or not. I have several municipalities or towns from Varazdin, Međurje and Krapina County. And it can't be as you answered me along with Deputy Prime Minister Mr. Hebrang to say that the contracts weren't registered, that they didn't arrive because parts of those contracts were paid last year. The sequel was supposed to be paid this year, so why don't you just pay it? If the finances stand so well there, we expect you to pay the rest of the debt to the SV municipality as soon as possible. Križ Zacertje, for example, Gornji Stubica, Zlatar Bistrica, not to list the names and names of the place. But what I want to talk about right now is on the wrong side. And as it was said, there were tears in this country about the state of the stock. That is why it is known that certain goods are kept and refurbished in the stock. And we know that if that's the case, and you said you were concerned with the state of supply, I'd like to reject the over-explanatory explanation of why, then, from 7.9 million kuna, you cut the item by 31% to 5.48%. About the acquisition of new supplies for which people of the profession are supposed to have a hundred million kunas without a word. I hope that in the event of an accident in Croatia, you will find a way to reach these goods. At the same time, the same thing is with health supplies where, with 2.3 million kunas, money is planned for the establishment of stock supplies in health from 900 thousand kunas to two thirds to only 300 thousand kuna. A lot has already been said about agriculture, but I am one of the advocates, and in the previous assembly that spoke and asked to be encouraged and everything that goes with agriculture needs to be increased, because the basic or initial basis for negotiations with the European Union will depend on this initial position. What do we have here now, and what are the messages to the Croatian farmers? For the purpose of conducting the selection in livestock, it is changed from 14.4 million kuna to 12.96 million kuna. It may not be that big a reduction, but at a time when in our surrounding countries or when it threatens the danger of various diseases and how important it is to use good selection in livestock. Already, counterpart Zgrebec spoke about investment aid in agriculture and forestry and fisheries on horizontal support criteria in the food and processing industry. But what I can't possibly understand is that the land order from 15 million kunas is reduced to 11 million kunas. We are aware on one side that in Croatia relatively small property and if we want the family economies to be competitive, then we need to help with the land. In that case, apparently, this government is not taking too much care of agriculture. In doing so, the pompously announced watering project, which is not said along the way, is not the government's project, it is just being sued with feathers, it is a project that has been launched by the IPK Osijek. This is why, however, this government with 19 million kuna is likely to reduce the project to 6 million kuna. It's probably something similar to highways, what's not yours you're looking a little bit at not supporting it the way it's supposed to be. For the management of the catastra, the public water supply from 3.8 million kuna is reduced to 1.3 million kkun. I must move that also for the state hydrometeorological institution from 59 million kuna, the amount is reduced to 54.8 million kuna. This is exactly the state hydrometeorological institution that should be carrying out the defense against the fight. We know that the fight has hit the counties of northwestern Croatia, as well as one part of Croatia's cattle, with this very way obviously that the funds provided for by the counties, cities and municipalities to co-finance the defence against the fighting have gone to the wind. At the same time, you only presided for a compensation plan for damage caused by the elemental accident 5 million and 600 thousand kuna. In what way do you intend to help farmers in Croatia, it remains as a question as a rewarding question for Kviskotek because it seems to me that you are also telling the farmers that they are left to themselves. Obviously, this year will be little or no defense from fighting, rockets and gas generators. I have to look back in part and I don't see environmentalism in this budget development projects related to the establishment of landfills. Also, only one of the drastic examples is the establishment of a waste management system in health. Extraordinary hazardous waste and here imagine wonders from 2, 3 million kunas, the money shrinks to only 300 thousand kunas. I think that shows enough about what our situation in the judiciary is, that we're all unhappy, and I think it's unnecessary to talk too much. At the same time, however, the funds of the Ministry of Justice have been reduced, we know that a rolling stock especially in the penitentiary is bad, prisoners are driven in old and insecure vehicles, at the same time very little is invested in rebuilding means of the rolling stock, and I would also ask to know which reasons are to continue to modernize the penitentiary in Lepoglav. All this says that the messages are very clear, there's a lot of talk, and there's very little work. Apparently, the government has no answer for all the problems in this country. One about how you do not know what the head is doing, and what the left and right hand, tail and legs are doing is also talking about the item on the Croatian Road Safety Council. Here it shrinks at a time when we know that a large number of people die on the roads, when we know that we have an increase in traffic on one side, we have more and more and we welcome new vehicles that have active and passive safety more quality than before, but at the same time this advisory body is reducing money from 1.67 million kuna to 680 thousand kuna. That we do not know what the head is doing, and what the tail is saying, and the law that we will probably, by an emergency procedure, legally... argue, because under the Law on Road Safety on Roads under Article 301. The Croatian Road Safety Council should first give an opinion on the proposed law, and that is not respected either. This law, which we will consider these days, abolishes the Road Safety Council, so I do not understand why, apart from what has been realised by today's date or the date of adoption of the budget rebalancing, why then provide them with any money at all. And there you can see that you don't know what's going on. These are just some of the details that simply make it impossible for me as an agent to support the adoption of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17033	Thank you very much. It is up to counterpart Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17034	Vice President, Mr. Secretary, dear colleagues and colleagues. I guarantee Croatia tax cuts, economic growth, employment growth, standards. So he said no to Zaratustra so spoke our current Prime Minister, Mr Sanader. And here, a few months later, Prime Minister Sanader wasn't in the assembly when he pompously announced a VAT reduction, so we saw what a debacle was, or together with him, he felt about it. Here is today when it comes to changes and additions, namely budget rebalancing, he sent our minister, Mr. Shucker, to offer the people, to offer citizens yesterday a larger excise charge instead of rebalancing promises. The budget of gentlemen is not just a political document, it is also a fundamental instrument of economic policy. Of course, if we have this economic policy, if we have this vision, if I want to design it, if we want to show it to the citizens and show it to them. And Mr. Minister, I would very much agree with you that this budget rebalancing is completely transparent, i.e. translated into Croatian, corrugated, completely transparent. And what does he tell us? It shows that the government does not really have any vision, that there is no such economic policy, that in fact it is not known, understands the Croatian economy, that its needs are not understood, its problems, but also its opportunities and that is what is not good, that is something that gives rise to a hint of a serious economic crisis. The government should finally know and stop scaring the people and citizens of this country that the deficit is not a bogeyman, it is always a source of funding. A deficit of truth can also be dangerous when used for consumption. But this whole so we've already seen the budget itself, and we're not talking here now when we're talking about the rebalancing of the budget that he's showing. He shows all the incontinence of something that has long since been abandoned, which many countries have left a hundred years ago, there is a narrow one, the leadership of a narrow state. Making such a policy that doesn't care about development. Sir yes, you'll be told something about this by Prof. Dr. It's a turret if you don't know the meaning of it. In theory, you know the concept, so then, which I've also heard about recently, so our Professor Jurcic will explain to you, I think he'll be of some use to you. ... You shouldn't give up, it's only been seven months. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So all the developing countries, which wanted to accelerate development, which wanted to enter Europe, and even those with a very democratic transition that always belonged to that circle at the end of which it was created, which made that core, had just run such a policy. The deficit was almost up to the limits of endurance in those countries to develop, so that they could enter into such a single community rather than be weakened. That's what the budget offers, that's what the rebalancing offers. Mr. Minister, you act politely here, so go home, laugh at the club together with HDZ, because the citizens are watching you anyway.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17035	I'm asking you nicely, fellow subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17036	The theme is that the minister is not allowed as the MPs speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17037	I have another agenda, though.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17038	That's what the current topic was now. You may not like what I'm saying, because otherwise you never like the truth, but then that's really your problem. What is very dangerous and what is now completely transparent as the minister said, i.e. Transparently, as this should be properly translated, all projects are stopped, especially projects that lead to employment are stopped. And what is particularly dangerous, which the previous speakers specifically spoke of from the SDP club, is that it is subtracting the profits of HT, subtracting profits and putting them into the budget for consumption, not for development, not for modernisation. Our, or coalition projects, modernization projects, gasifications, roads, railways, what you like to call a deficit, so... And the elevator, sir, which was opened in the year of the disabled and for which a million kuna was spent, may have been insignificant to you, but these were the means that we normally took care of every kuna. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] And what's very dangerous, perhaps even more dangerous than all of that, is that at last, now it's a complete show of the abandonment of reform. When the government says her priority is this, that her priority is that, so list one ten priorities depending on what might be the topic of the day in the media, then it's clear there's no priority at all. It is unfortunate that perhaps the two most important, what really should have been a priority, so that every government that wants the country to improve and develop, is exactly investing in science and investment in the judiciary. However, with this particular budget rebalancing, funds are subtracted from these portfolios, and that is what is not good. Here, on several occasions, the prime minister pointed out the importance of reforming the judiciary, so he said, on that occasion, precisely a significant investment in buildings. The buildings are somewhere clean, maybe wasteful. Not anymore, but it used to be. But here it's a direct and arid need. Because some, when they also provide funds to increase the necessary judicial staff, simply lack the facility, the space where they can be placed so that they can work at all. For example, it gives up the funds intended for the County Court in Zadar, but it is not just the County Court. There are four judicial bodies. Last year, a POV space was provided, therefore, to the Anti-intelligence Agency, to finally move out of those judicial bodies where it is not a place in a democratic country and only to provide funds to edit that space, so that the entire building would eventually belong to judicial authorities. However, it appears that it is completely giving up the project because there is no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, And I also mention Split and Zagreb. Our biggest difficulty for judicial bodies in Split is zero kuna. And the biggest problems are right in Zagreb and Split, and this is exactly what I was talking about. So, what is essentially, what is essentially the budget rebalance showing? It shows that, therefore, the guarantee card, therefore, is lost somewhere, that this rebalancing that is offered under the justification of the deficit, but it has actually shown all, therefore, very transparently, very transparently, it has shown all the deficits of this policy of yours. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17039	Thank you very much, colleague. Corrections to incorrect allegations. Representative Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17040	Thank you, Madam Vice President. In addition to our colleague Anticevic being able to cheer us up and laugh at us with her debate, she cited several inaccuracies. First, it is incorrect that Prime Minister Sanader had a debacle in this House. That's completely incorrect. Debaklu experienced your policy on November 23rd in the election. And the other thing is, it's incorrect that HDZ scares off some kind of deficit here, voters. HDZ simply brings out what was unknown to the public because you were hiding it. You've been covering your debts, covering up what you've spent this year. Therefore, it is necessary to say this to the public, not any public fear. It's a simple statement of what's a fact.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17041	Thank you very much. Representative Plesko, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17042	Dear Mr. Minister, Mrs. Anticevic, the colleague said a series of incorrect claims. By the way, I can't fix everything, but I'll just do one. The deficit may be a developmental moment if it is shown transparently through the budget and through everything else. But it can't and can't possibly be a developmental moment if it's a product of ruthless, without the purpose of spending taxpayers' money.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17043	Thank you very much. Representative Fuček, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17044	Madam Vice-President, I am correcting the incorrect allegations of colleague Anticevic who incorrectly stated that this government has a profit-taking strategy from companies which, therefore, are in majority or mostly state-owned. Which means she's taking it out of development. First of all, it says that you have not taken care of every kuna as a colleague has stated, that the previous government has taken care of every kuna. So she didn't even know how to pick what belonged to her. Once the part is obtained schedules both for development and for other purposes, surely this part that belongs to the owner belongs to the owner. And the state has its own development programs to invest in. And in that sense, please do not misexplain the reasons that are otherwise the legal framework. And another thing to say is, from the State Audit findings, it's visible as an observation that they're even...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17045	My colleagues, correction and time.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17046	...the companies were paying, and that the government, that the companies were paying and they didn't know what account they were supposed to pay.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17047	Thank you very much. By the way, there you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17048	So I'm correcting the inaccuracies of my colleague Antičević that the guarantee card has been lost. She's not lost or figuratively. The HDZ realizes its programme step by step, and that the card is there, that every HDZ bearer I use the opportunity to show it.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17049	Thank you very much, colleague. Representative Šišljagic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17050	Thank you very much. In addition to a series of incorrect allegations that the colleague, the esteemed representative Antičević, tried here to present, convince us, she said, quote: "We took care of every kuna." Honorable MPs, if you had taken care of each kuna then you wouldn't have spent $15 billion in vain this year for what you owed this country, and especially in this year you wouldn't be in debt if we had to pay it back, just in this year 20 billion.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17051	Thank you very much. I suggest we move on with the debate. Representative Marija Lugarić. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17052	Dear Madam Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Minister. The debate on the budget as well as the changes and additions to the budget we are currently discussing is always an invitation to discuss what plans we have drawn. It is also a debate about what kind of words we have spoken, how we have made these nice promises, precisely because these nice words, these beautiful promises only about the budget and nowhere else get their foundation and where they pass as serious plans or reveal themselves as just nice words. Therefore, regardless of what the Prime Minister and Minister are saying, it is even clear to the layman that as far as the economy is concerned, there is no economic programme in place. That's how it proves this rebalancing. The revenue of the budget is not increased through the growth of the economy but by taking money from the economy. We've already heard that this is, among other things, about 300 million kunas to get HT. Also, the euro. In addition, these funds are not spent further on further development but are spent on consumption. And if we know that, and these are not anyone's political qualifications and tendential claims, it is black on white written in this Rebalancing proposal, then very nostalgic and very unacceptable sounds the pre-election guarantee of Prime Minister Sanader that Croatia guarantees economic growth, better wages and better life. The goal is to guarantee it's not bad, but it doesn't come true. I think all our fellow citizens have lost all illusions that there will be an announced VAT reduction knowing this, and knowing that last week we also increased excise duties, very clearly falling into the water a guarantee of tax cuts. From tax cuts, according to this proposal, changes and additions to the State budget, but also according to fiscal projections by 2007. No tax cuts. But, well, there's been a lot of guarantees, a lot of promises, but this rebalance shows that very little is done, especially in that part that's been declared the most strategically important. Youth, entrepreneurship, science and education. A few evidences for that fact. Only 5 and a half thousand kunas or 0.24% were spent to prevent behavioural disturbances from children and young people and from planned 2 and a half million kunas. Monitoring and promoting policies for young people of one million and 200 thousand kunas is spent only 101 thousand or 8%. The promotion of social participation of young people is spent 5% of the resources, support for children's programmes, support for youth programmes has not been spent any single kuna, not a single lip has been spent despite the daily declaration that our children are the most important young people. Among other things, it is said that entrepreneurship is important. But the numbers are inexorable. Encouragement of beginner entrepreneurship spent 0 kuna, promoting local development projects 0 kuna, improving quality system is also spent considerable 0 kunas, education of 0 kuna entrepreneurs, development of business centres, surprise spent 0 kunas. Encouraging the development of entrepreneurial incubators is again spent 0 kunas, then encouraging the entrepreneurship of young people again signifying 0 kunas. Indeed, Prime Minister Sanader says in a guaranteed card I quote we youngsters will not take to the future without hope. It reminds me more of some hope without a future or comment of that guarantee if we ask how much this guarantee card is worth and that guarantee is only 0 kuna. Unfortunately, that's not all, when we analyze the school rebalancing proposal again, it's all a lot of 0 in execution, even the funds are shrinking but about it a little later. I almost can't believe it, but again why would the government lie to the MPs that in the first six months we haven't spent a single kuna on informing primary and secondary schools, we haven't spent a single kuna on training teachers in primary schools in secondary schools, although we know very well that education changes can't be made without investing in teacher education. We haven't spent a single kuna on describing illiterate people even though we know there are too many illiterate and illiterate schools in this country, we haven't spent a single kuna planned to equip schools with radioactive equipment, even though we know our schools are in bad shape. We haven't spent a single kuna on learning another foreign language, we haven't spent a single kuna on training for the first profession, etc. They're not insinuations, they're not lies, it says in these materials the government delivered us. Items that are significantly distant from those desired 50 or 45 are significant and more, there are all some tens, twelves, fifteens, so how do we trust the guarantee of greater investment in education, I don't especially believe those guarantees if we know that those funds that are planned, as we see, are executed with zeroes, are anyway compared to 2003 and reduced. A few words about the items that are being reduced and related to the field of science and education. It is quite amazing to me that this year we will not get a single book for libraries in primary and secondary schools and all those who raise their hand for this rebalancing must know that they are raising their hand for not buying a single book. Also, 3 million kunas reduce funds for student centres, and we say students are important to us. And another interesting downturn, everyone who supports this rebalancing must know that they support reducing funding for scientific recruits by 13 million kuna. That is why I ask if we are already reducing the funds for students, for student centres, for scientific recruits if we are doing good to Croatia's future, if we are doing good to those young people in whom we swear as the most spectacular part of Croatian society. We certainly do not do good to them, nor do good to the future of this land. The main guarantee is that we will increase these investments in science and higher education. Corrections are working to mention one increase in the ministry's 3.5m kuna portfolio is increasing funds to edit the ministry's building. That comment really isn't necessary. There's still a lot of details of some of them I'll give in the amendments, I believe that from my presentation it's very clear and reasoned how one is spoken and the other is done, how one is planned and the other is executed, how one is guaranteed, and the other is executed. In any case, any experience from this convocation of Parliament teaches us that here the arguments do not burn, that most of this House will uncritically raise its hand for this rebalancing process and thus be defined for consumption and not for development, that it will be determined to reduce investment in science and education, to reduce investment in youth and entrepreneurship. That is why, but also because of the firm belief that this launch of Croatia should be stopped, I will be against this rebalancing proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17053	Thank you very much, colleague. One correction to the incorrect allegations, MP Roksandić please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17054	Thank you, Madam Vice President. I have to correct the incorrect allegations of my colleague Lugaric, I'm on the Committee today because of the public, you said we're not going to get a single book this school year. Unfortunately, we may get you regrets, but we don't, because schools these days have received 14 kuna per student for the purchase of new book titles. Therefore, for half a year, the school has received funding for the acquisition of the Lectary Fund.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17055	Thank you very much, colleague. Now it's MP Ljubo Jurcic's turn. Just one little piece of information, 25 reported for a ten-minute hearing, no replicas, no corrections and everything we do. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17056	Thank you very much, Madam Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. The budget is one of the more powerful instruments of economic policy, and that is how it should be used. It achieves positive effects on the economy and on the population standard if the budget is consistent with economic policy or other instruments and with economic policy objectives. The consistency of economic policy today is ensured by the government's economic strategy or economic programme. With the budget rebalancing that we are talking about today, it means that there has been a change in economic policy or a change in the economic strategy or programme or that the economic objectives of this government have changed. The question now is what economic policy or strategy was in making a budget a few months ago and what has changed in it so far. And that question that has been asked here several times today whether the government has a strategy at all. The budget without an economic strategy is an unstable budget, without a strategy the budget is subject to frequent rebalancing which creates instability and uncertainty throughout the economy with all... negative consequences. And even the job of the finance minister would be less stressful if the government had one more complete economic strategy. However, the rebalancing proposal and some day the fiscal policy projections carried out by 2007, suggest that the government still does not have a clear economic strategy or programme. In fact, it seems that the creators of economic policy are currently experiencing a small confusion, i.e. changing the objectives and instruments of economic policy, which can be very dangerous for the development of the Croatian economy. In fact, there is less and less mention of economic growth and less emphasis on economic growth as a goal of economic policy, which is a matter of nature, economic growth is increasingly being treated in Croatia as an analytical category rather than as a goal of economic policy. A limitation of the budget deficit and public debt stand out as priority targets, however, Croatia's budget deficit should be an instrument and also a source of economic growth, reducing the budget deficit in Croatia will directly affect the reduction of economic growth, and reducing economic growth will further affect the reduction of population standards. Croatia as a relatively undeveloped country has a relatively small gross domestic product and does not have enough accumulation for the necessary investments. The budget, and in particular the budget deficit, should be seen primarily as a source of funding for certain projects, primarily infrastructures that create space for economic growth. The deficit should not be used directly in the business activities of the private sector, but should be used to build infrastructure that will allow private sector and market economy to develop. 1% of the budget deficit means almost 2 billion funds. 5% of the deficit means nearly 10 billion funds to finance different projects. Let's just imagine what could be done in Croatia with 10 billion kuna. There's definitely a lot to be done. And it might be possible to accept today any amendment from those funds. But above all, these funds should be used, aimed at projects that will reduce budget deficit sources over the next few years, i.e. to increase economic growth. The whole essence of the economic policy that is now to be led in Croatia is actually to ensure faster economic growth than budget growth. Furthermore, the second problem of the Croatian economy. The funds should be channelled into projects that will allow for an increase in exports and a reduction in Croatia's import dependence. This would again affect the reduction of the current balance sheet deficit, i.e. the balance of payments. A reduction in the budget deficit and a reduction in the current balance sheet deficit would also result in a reduction in the debt, i.e. the external debt of Croatia. But in all of this you have to invest, it can't just happen to the simple decisions of the government. And the procedure of how to do this determines an economic strategy based on economic science and economic profession. Foreign debt is not resolved in the Ministry of Finance, but is being resolved in the real sector, so the finance minister is also in a difficult situation today when he has to discuss an external debt that he actually has no influence on, but only with him is he being registered and has to pay for it. The way the government wants to limit the budget deficit and external debt is an administrative approach with all the negative consequences resulting from this. This approach looks a little like that 20 years ago when it tried to reduce inflation in these areas, so prices were freezing and limiting, ceilinging, but it didn't affect or affect the causes, sources and inflation. In fact, the budget deficit should be used to finance the change in the structure of the Croatian economy which now generates all these deficits and create conditions for the production of products with greater added value with greater competitiveness, etc. Or products resulting in a larger gross domestic product per employee or per capita in Croatia. The funds from the budget deficit should actually be directed towards building no more physical infrastructure than building institutional infrastructure that will create conditions for all these changes to be made. However, all of this needs to have an economic strategy or at least a programme or a consistent economic policy. Which still crosses the Ministry of Finance's section, which is the work of the entire government, and so far, the government has not done. Furthermore, the budget deficit limit as the objective of economic policy means that the budget deficit will have to be compensated by accelerated privatisation. The speedy privatisation is due to unquality privatisation. There is a consequence of the sale of assets below the price due to the urgency of the need for financial resources, i.e. the sale of national assets or national wealth, as it is said. This also gives signals to potential interested customers for domestic assets, domestic companies that their negotiating position is significantly improving. Furthermore, in economic science, economic practice has undoubtedly confirmed that the economy is more effectively managed by budget deficits than by tax change, especially by increasing tax burdens. and all the countries use it, even the most developed ones. Taxes are held at the same level, working with the budget deficit, thus ensuring economic growth in the future, which covers deficits from previous periods and is one of the standard economic policies implemented by all countries, i.e. the most developed countries. Only the government needs to determine which sources of economic growth are to be financed. Furthermore, what I wanted to say today is, the alarming statements by government officials that make incorrect claims or demonstrates the lack of knowledge of the functioning of the economy. Thus, the fiscal policy projections of the fiscal policy principles for the period until 2007 reiterate that the fiscal deficit is 3%, one of the conditions of entry into the European Union. That's what I was talking about in the last discussion when it came to VAT. Which is not true. A 3% budget deficit is a condition of entry into the European Monetary Union. So the question arises, do government workers distinguish the entry into the European Union and going into the monetary union? Croatia is likely to enter the European Union for the next three, four years. And in the European Monetary Union, it means to accept the euro as a national currency will take another three or four years, so all together, my budget deficit should come down from the current point of view for the next eight years, not for the next two or three years. With this approach, the government would give up a strong instrument of economic policy, while already giving up the exchange rate... of monetary policy instruments, and in fact the question is, which instruments would the government manage the economy? It is also wrong to believe that domestic debt does not mean an increase in external debt. External debt always increases when domestic consumption is higher than domestic production, i.e. when domestic investment is larger than domestic accumulation. And this is the situation now in Croatia. Where so each debt or any consumption means an increase in external debt, regardless of whether that consumption is financed by taking money on the domestic or foreign market. Which means that the increase in foreign debt will continue, it will not be possible to stop the proposed measures to slow down the external debt, it needs a slightly more complex economic policy. It can be said that in any case, unfortunately does not fall under the economic reforms that lead..
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17057	I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17058	...the essential conditions for creating a budget deficit and external debt and to creating a entrepreneurial climate and to quality privatisation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17059	Minister Shuker called. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17060	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. It was very interesting to listen to this debate. But I'm sorry we don't have a projection of the deficit last government here, where if I'm not mistaken in 2003, it should be at 4.5%, and it ended at 6.3%, which is probably consistent with this economic development policy through deficits. This year it was supposed to be somewhere at 3,7, 3.8%, and in 2005, it was supposed to be below 3.4%. And now very interesting that the past government could lead a development policy with a deficit of 0.6. 0.7% lower than the projection proposed by this government. There's one big contradiction. And we have to say that because of the Croatian public. Because this deficit that Dr. Jurcic is talking about is a 4.5% deficit that the last government said would happen in 2003. However, it ended at 6.3%. However, which are the four main reasons for the rebalancing of this budget, exclusively due to the conduct of an irresponsible public finances policy, the HH unrecorded billion and 600 million in the budget, interest and the guarantees issued in recent years, which exceeded all expectations and the Development and Employment Fund. But I would also say that at this point, foreign debt is not so much a problem with economic policy rather than monetary policy, and what I would like to say is that in the past years both the government and the institutions that have controlled them think that certain macroeconomic indicators will be able to remain solely by pressing on monetary policy and giving fiscal policy great freedom. But what happened happened. It cannot be kept under the control of certain macroeconomic movements only with one instrument. This would be ideal if it were a coordinated action of both fiscal and monetary policies, then perhaps external debt would now be several billion less and also certain macroeconomic indicators would be different. However, what is very interesting, which we ourselves won't admit and when we have to admit that unfortunately Croatia's biggest economic growth had in moments when it had the largest current balance of payments deficit and that's our biggest problem. And if we recognized him at that point, if we had turned some things differently, it would have probably been easier for the government in its last year of office in 2003 and for this government too. So, unfortunately, we recognize that our economic growth is linked exclusively to external borrowing, to a major problem, to a large amount of current, current balance of payments deficit, which means that it was based solely on consumption. And finally, when you look at the growth structure of the gross domestic product, then you will see that unfortunately over the past few years, and this year, the biggest participation in it is consumption, consumption that is related to imports, and that is our problem, and we should have recognized that. And if we'd all reacted differently, probably some things would be different today. No one mentioned any infrastructure projects. The question is, is that in one year, it could have been done that much. I continue to argue that Croatia's biggest problem was in 2002 where a 6.8% deficit was planned. However, because of the coalition government's disnegotiation, certain projects did not start in 2002, they began in the end and were transferred in 2003. Croatia's deficit was artificially reduced from the planned 6.8% to 4.8% in 2002. And what happened in 2003? That this deficit has returned to some real 6.2, 6.3, 6.4%, and that's what we won't admit to ourselves. We couldn't reduce without economic growth from 8% or 9% of the country's deficit if we were to implement all programmes from 6.8% to 4.8%. There's no math that can do that and that's the biggest problem. If the deficit was in 2002 as planned, around 6.8% would have been planned in 2003, some 6.2-6.3, 2004 would have been about 5.5-5.6 and then no such restrictive policy should be conducted as regards the deficit. Because how else to explain that the 2002 deficit that was 4.8% jumped to 6.3% in 2003. And at the same time in 2002 we had the biggest economic growth in the last five, six years but which excluded unfortunately based on consumption 4 percentage points of 5.2 percentage points was related to consumption, hence imports and external borrowing of both citizens and economies.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17061	Correction of the incorrect allegations, the honourable representative Jurcic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17062	Thank you, Mr. President. In fact, these discussions are much more complex and would ask for a replica, but I'm actually using the correction of an incorrect quote from the correctness that import consumption does not enter the gross domestic product. On the contrary, it is subtracted from the gross domestic product so that the consumption from imports does not actually accumulate domestic production, so that this gross domestic product is cleaned from imports by definition. It counts for domestic production plus customs, plus this all minus imports, then it means imports... I could not use the replica, but the correction of the incorrect quote. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17063	Dear Representative Gordan Jandrokovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17064	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Secretary, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs! The proposal to amend and supplement the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2004 is a further step in the greater transparency of public finances and a good document, which makes it clear by now that taxpayers' money is being spent, and therefore also praises the Ministry of Finance which prepared the proposal. With these changes and additions to the state budget, the Government respects the real possibilities of the Croatian state as well as the priorities of Croatian society. Although the budget is without a doubt a political document the government has approached these changes and additions realistically, very analytically and announced a way of working and moves that are certainly not political but are long-term justified and useful for Croatian citizens. The proposal shows that revenues are increasing by more than 2.8 billion kuna and expenditures by 1.9 billion, and the total government budget deficit decreases by around 950 million kuna. The government, therefore, is not going to buy votes as some fellow MPs claim, but is responsibly trying to correct the irresponsible and political moves of some former ministers. The government is engaged in resolving unpleasant heritage and is focusing on reducing the budget deficit and reducing external debt as a prerequisite for any health-based growth and development. The fact is, the deficit suits growth, but when it's held within certain boundaries and frameworks that the former government has greatly breached. It is saddened, therefore, to hear the more difficult for this government to buy the votes of citizens and local authorities, especially those who used to work and behave during the four-year course of their duties. In addition, in this rebalancing, around 330 million kunas are going to pay guarantees given by the former government last year, of which 169 million for Viktor Lenac, the funds in the Regional Development and Employment Fund have been increased, a large part of which goes to compensation for workers of private companies who have failedly been rehabilitated. The specific quality of these changes and additions is a good balance between funding development and social projects. The new employment programmes are thus provided with additional funds of 110 million kuna and an additional 15 million kuna has been allocated to encourage development projects in crafts, small and medium-sized enterprises. In addition, there has been an increase in funding for the rights arising from the law for the following purposes. The disabled and family pensions of Croatian defenders 40 million kuna, additional maternity leave 10 million kuna, funds for the personal disability and other social benefits 64 million kuna. I also draw attention to macroeconomic developments in the first half of the year, based on the analysis of the Institute for Macro-Economic Analysis and Planning. It is evident from this data that the government is making pre-election announcements, especially in segments that are crucial to economic growth and the growth of the standard of living of Croatian citizens. I will highlight three key elements of production, exports and employment. Industrial production increased 4.1% over the first five months compared to five months last year, showing recovery of industrial production. The unemployment rate decreased from 19.1% at the end of 2003 to 18% at the end of May of this year and exports increased 14.4% in the first five months of this year, while imports increased by 4.12%, which for the first time after a long period of time that exports grew at a faster rate than imports. These trends point to recovery of economic activity after the slowdown in the second half of 2003 and are absurd thesis that this government does not have a planned economic policy and a clear vision. On the contrary, these trends show that this government has far more determination, knowledge and abilities than its predecessors. The main policy elements of this Government can be clearly read from this Proposal for amending and supplementing the State budget, faster economic growth, reform of state administration and justice highlighted greater social isolation and sensitivity, and a strong orientation to strengthening Croatia's international position, are conditions leading to improving the standard of living of Croatian citizens and the stable development of the Republic of Croatia. For all these reasons, I will support the proposal to amend and supplement the State budget for 2004.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17065	Thank you. Honorable representative Katarina Fuchek.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17066	Mr. President, colleagues and fellow MPs. There's been a lot of talk about budget transparency, so I'll start with that. If the budget is transparent then you should see everything in it. If it can't be seen by the end then it hasn't been examined or transparent but it could be read. In this budget rebalancing we can read, because yet, it is not transparent until the end of the state treasury. Why isn't she here? She's supposed to be fully organized for the past four years. But if that were the case, there could be no extra budget budgets or budget planning on extra-financial funds, nor spending on funds, in other words, more transparent government of state revenue and expenditure and everything would be visible and transparent. So it was in someone's interest obviously. Thank you very much. This government is in the best interest of making it right. Which means that everything involves the state budget, to make everything visible and clear, to know exactly who and why he manages state money. Among other things, the public debt and the reduction of public debt and debt dynamics is one of the main indicators of this rebalancing between this transparency that I have mentioned. And I think it's a positive trait that certainly shows both the movement and the economic policy of this government. In other words, the government wants to ensure stability for future economic development. And that stability is a prerequisite for quality and real economic growth. There's been a lot of talk here about economic growth. It even mentioned how he fell and before he grew up. Here, the minister mentioned in his previous statement what the economic growth was from, was from personal consumption. If, and personal consumption above all was also as the main indicator of, on the movement of retail trade, which is one of the main indicators and indicators of economic trends. And if we compare the indicators from 2002 when trade growth was 135, 2003 was 5%, then it was automatically an impact on personal consumption and on the growth of gross domestic product. That's why you're growing so much. So this government's weekning is to show real growth as a simple stable macro-economic environment in which Croatia needs to develop so that with its economic policy, it will be a competitive country and enter the European Union. And what I also want to read here as a concrete indicator of macroeconomic, economic developments in Croatia are figures. And the numbers are the best indicator of the condition. There were a lot of reports, a lot of talk about tourism, about negative movements, and the figures are just talking about, in May, a total of 2.8 million nights were made, which is 10.9% higher than the same month of 2003. That's what the numbers say. Which means according to preliminary data from the Croatian National Bank, and the Croatian National Bank is an institution we trust for sure. In the first quarter of this year, foreign exchange revenues from tourism amounted to $444.7m were made. Which is 11.7% higher than the same quarter in 2003. It's one of the economic indicators of the environment. Then, liquidity and insolvency, that's also being talked about in a negative context, here's what the figures say. In May, the number of legal persons blocked by giro accounts fell to 20.4 thousand, at the lowest level since 1997. And the outstanding warrants have total value, i.e. they are reduced by 895.6 million kuna. They're also indicators, they're numbers. And I think that with exports that have also increased by 14.4%, which doesn't matter now, but it's important that the trend in export growth, they suggest that all indicators are positive this year for economic policy and for the assumptions of the development that this rebalancing has put forward by this government. In this context, I would just like to say that there will be no more space, for any possibility of planting, for any challenge to what is clearly visible but certainly that Croatia is seeking one stable and in this sense development policy that will enable the raising of the standard of Croatian man and accordingly the government will implement exactly that policy, which in this sense will be the most effective, most effective and, in the next budget, will certainly prove to be some result of all these moves and the reduction of the debt of the state, the reduction of public debt and the general debt of the state is a prerequisite for achieving this and, in some way, to plan everything that has been outlined to economic programmes such as various, such as incentives at the level of the small economy, incentives of craftsmanship, incentives for all levels of entrepreneurship. Secondly, this is still a developmental and social budget. I don't think investment, I can't say investment, but dealing with costs and social character is dealing with the cost of living. And the settlement of education costs, the settlement of education costs, science is the settlement of development costs. Not only can everything be viewed in some economic numbers that are not specifically analysed in the way it should be looked at politically and in what context they provide the possibility of developing the entire Croatian economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17067	Thank you. The first replica, the respected representative of Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17068	Well, I'd like to replicate to my colleague Fuchek on a few thesis she's brought here, first of all, on the transparency of the budget. I was talking about that this Law is not in line, this Budget is not in line with the Budget Law applicable to all others except the State. The state set itself up to do the budget, so she said she could build it like this. This budget would not pass on any municipal council of the least municipality in the Republic of Croatia. Among other things, because there is no such thing as a program of human needs in this year and for the next three years, what every municipality and every city should have done. So we'd see why the budget needs to increase the salary item, expenditure for the 12% employees. Is it really for the execution of collective agreements or is it for increased employment contrary to what was promised to be a less efficient state, state administration. It is not transparent because the minister says 200m kuna should be increased to pay the country's daily guarantees. You'd be transparent if we got the information for whom bail has to be paid, and who gave those guarantees? So Croatian citizens have the right to know who they're paying for the loans they've given. What are these municipalities and what are these companies? And in the end, we don't object that to the items to encourage entrepreneurship. We object that they have not been executed in one percent, the 6th month is, it will not be possible to execute them by the end of the year because the tenders have to be called. Local self-government units need to prepare projects, have to report, have to be the evaluation of these projects and need to identify the funds and engage them. And otherwise, former competitions and funds from the last government were to be used by March 30th. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17069	Replicate response, distinguished representative Katarina Fuček.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17070	In any case, Mršić, this budget is more transparent than all the budgets of the previous government. This is absolutely true because it includes those costs of extra-financial funds that were not specifically visible in the previous budgets. And there it could be manipulated. Secondly, the Treasury implies a single account, control and spending of funds from a single account, and in that sense there are very, very many failures in the past government because you know what happened at the dividend payment that companies were paying into individual banks, that the state didn't know that these money was and why, what was the purpose of these payments, that simply the state couldn't pick them up and let alone know what it was about. This is transparency which also enables more rational use of state money. Not only can you see everything, but you can see it. Second, the guarantees coming in for Victor Lenac as number one. Secondly, this “Viktor Lenac” is a repeated guarantee, and when it was seen that it would not be spent in a quality way again the state repeated 20, well it doesn’t matter now what year. But it all says here. Other HBOR transactions, HBOR aid. There's a debt to the big drugstores. The Croatian Privatisation Fund and other outstanding liabilities reached, so Croatia's railways and so on. Now, according to this more transparent section, Croatia's railways will not be in debt more in the same way as they are before everything is visible in the budget or transparently. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17071	Thank you. The second replica of the esteemed representative, Dragica Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17072	So if the data of the State Statistics Institute were actually analysed, what kind of growth structure of social or social gross product would it be seen that personal consumption did not have such an important impact on the growth of the social gross product from 2001 until now, because it was shrinking even from 1995 in the total structure, and they were stronger or more affected by the strong recovery of investments that started in 2001 and 2002. When it comes to some kind of export stability, then the role of the state is, in fact, to strengthen domestic competition through macroeconomic policy, to open up markets, to actually liberalise the trade regime. To strengthen support through the development of commercial infrastructure. Exporters should actually be provided with normal financing for their production, should be provided with export-related risks, market research should be provided for the needs of small and medium-sized enterprises, access to information on opportunities in foreign markets, training experts so that they can have good access to new technologies and new knowledge and that they can accept them. If the state did so, we could also talk about a stable export and a stable growth of social gross products. From this calculation, there's actually none of it.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17073	Thank you. The reply to the replica of the esteemed representative Katarina Fuček.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17074	I answer to the replica of my colleague Zgrebec regarding that, that personal consumption does not have an impact on the growth of gross domestic product or how did you think it did not have that much importance in this growth, right? So, according to the same statistical data from the State Statistics Institute, and we're looking at the year 2003, the real growth rate of the gross domestic product fell from 5.2 in 2002 to 4.3%. The slowdown of gross domestic product growth is largely due to the slowdown of personal consumption growth. Following the increase in personal consumption of 6.6% in 2002, personal consumption in 2003 saw an increase of 4.1%, most of which resulted in a slowdown in credit activity. We know that after those measures, which the HRB brought to the banks, the simple population was in the position that, by force of opportunity, they had to be less in debt and then they were indicators, and that is precisely why personal consumption significantly participated in GDP growth, or gross social product, of the GDP. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17075	Thank you. Dear representative Ivana Sučec-Tracostanec.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17076	I would, of course, be very brief because a lot of things have been said today, I refer to this budget or budget rebalancing which, in any case, if they say that the art is possible, then in any case, it is much more than that because this is almost the art of the impossible. So in a situation where this government, however bold, optimistic and ambitious as it may be, has a heavy burden on its back in 2003, which we talk about over and over again and never again mention them from 6 billion and some kunas, and, of course, it has to compose them in this year's budget which should then be extremely developed both in the economy and in agriculture, not neglecting the social and, of course, now a little bit so I say with, with irony, ensure that all pre-election promises are carried out in 6 months which I certainly don't think that any serious citizen of this country expects. So the modest shifts in this government's policies are in small percentages just because it's the short time they've been going on. So in this short time, there is still a sign of light that will probably be stronger when you can see a set of economic changes that this government will make, and I hope that, based on this rebalancing, the budget will, of course, begin to reform tax policy. As impossible as it is now today, it will follow in the part where, through a direct reduction of income tax and everything else, it will stimulate the development of the economy, and of course, it is impossible to lower the value added tax at the moment and we have already agreed on that. He looks forward to me, except that although imports are of course still on the rise, but the scissors between exports and imports have been reduced, and that is what we should insist on, that this relationship is further reduced, so I am glad that the overall deficit has been reduced, so that it has been reduced to 4.5% of GDP according to the 1986 standard. So, in any case, for the next 2005 budget, we'll probably have a easier situation. I am also pleased that in such a difficult situation and several municipalities have received more funding, I am pleased that both defenders and maternity benefits and the employment fund have received some more money. And I have to say, not only did the fund, but the employment office got more money. Of course we all know that this is the basis of this pto is increased and individual compensation for those who are jobless and that it is also necessary for those who have lost their jobs to pay a one-time fee, so it will also help to increase the economy in total. Because those funds you give to someone of course will be spent buying, I suppose, in Croatian stores, to develop a total economy. So, I'm going to repeat by supporting this budget rebalance I'm glad to finally see it both the cost spot and the one that creates it and its size, I'm glad that all future budgets are going to be as transparent as this one. I hope he will and on the revenue side continue a positive trend in collecting income. And on the part where there is now a grey economy because as you all share the view that corruption is one of the key problems of our development. So one of the brakes and that by reducing certain tax burdens and increasing the number of taxpayers, not only by introducing stamps and all other order. And increase the budget revenues, so the number of their users and the number of those who make out in the budget. Now, thank you, Mr. President, I support this proposal, which has been very difficult to make under the conditions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17077	Thank you very much. Four replicas. Posloved representative Zvonimir Mršić first.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17078	Well I'd like to replicate to my colleague Judge Trakostanec on also a few allegations. No one expected the HDZ to carry out all the promises within six months. But we expected that at least those main promises would be fulfilled during the entire term of office. But you've given up on those promises. They gave up reducing VAT. So not that you won't make a promise of reducing VAT in 6 months, even though it was a promise at the first cabinet session that such a decision would be made. You will not execute a reduction in VAT in the four years of your term. We expected that, the announcement of HDFor was that you would reduce the external debt, but no you will not reduce the external debt and citizens must know, you will increase the external debt, and God forbid it is just 31 billion at the end of the dollar, at the end of your term as the Ministry of Finance says. In absolute terms or relatively, you will increase from 73% to 78% of gross national product. And as there is an increase in funding, the employment office for active employment policy measures, so that's what we were looking for when we discussed the budget. We said he didn't have enough resources. That there are contracts on which an increase in funds should be made, because the active measures p of employment have given rise to results. That's when you denied it. And the finality of the cost point is this transparency of the budget is not based on the political will of HDFor this is the basis of the law. But HDZ suspended some important decisions of the Budget Law that it would really be transparent. TO have all those programs that must have the smallest municipalities and to have projections in three years until the end of your term so that we can see exactly what the budget deficit will be. Not just wishes, but programs.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17079	The Committee on Replica is a respected representative of Ivana Sučec Trakoštanec.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17080	Yes, dear colleague Mršić, I know you'd be very happy to see what you're talking about. But I think we're going to have to disappoint you very much. And that this government will fail your expectations. And of course, the difference between the transparency of this budget and that of yours and the law is only that the Croatian Democratic Community will respect its budget law and show the budget costs in that way and when the law says so, so it will also respect the time at which it is necessary to do so. Be safe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17081	Second replica, respected representative Ivica Pancic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17082	Thank you, Mr. President. A colleague of Trakostanec is on the trail and previous discussions of colleagues from the Croatian Democratic Community. so, of course, responsibility for this budget that they seem to agree with themselves, of course, to the previous government. Well, among other things, it seems to me that he told me how boldly and optimisticly this government was, and we are indeed witnessing the optimism of all parties, the burden of previous gyodins, or former government. A colleague of Trakostanec may not have been a member of HDFor from her brightest days, the 90th of these slopes when the result of the robbery in the privatisation of Croatian ladyhood was thrown on her knees. And just like that, we've managed to recover as much as we can in these four years. And when it comes to the government's dilapidations of government policy these 6.7 months, it should be said that these small shifts were huge, and that's giving up a fundamental pre-election promise, and that's a reduction in VAT. And giving up declaring a fishing ecological zone. And that's just one of those little shifts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17083	Replication response. Dear representative Ivana Sučec Trakostanec.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17084	Unfortunately for you, my colleague, I've been a proud member of the HDZ since the '90s. But since I'm getting circumstances older than you and I remember years to the 90s, so I'd be very happy and I don't have time to respond to the replica to you state in the economy of the former Yugoslavia in a section called the Republic of Croatia and what we're like to say from overemployment for one third to I don't know the beginning of Markovic's conversion and everything else, the situation we found. So, in that state, we had to start privatizing into conversion. And individual cases of crime in pre-warry don't mean that the whole process and the process of condemning it is. It's about condemning individuals who have abused a possible system or violated laws. So I'm against them anyway. And mine and yours and our government are both laughs and optimistic and ambitious. And they will fill a good portion of what you too will rejoice in. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17085	The third replica is Honored Representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17086	Thank you. The esteemed colleague mentioned the joy again. On behalf of the club HSpa, nothing is looking forward to this budget. The budget is either developmental or social. That's our tax policy. It's neither developmental nor social. And we're getting into a situation the next version, look only at the appropriate side, it's said that Minister Schuker said he'd get far away from concessions. Well, that's not even 100 million euros in concession revenue. We talked about how all our funds were open. Foreign assistance is zero. And all Croatian funds are open. So how can it make me happy we're just going in the variant that we've given up the fishing ecological zone, so there's no income, and we're losing 400 million euros a year. Let's take what's the situation with HT. What kind of joy is that? We're drawing up the budget in a way that sells what we have left. What do we do when we get into a situation where we don't have anything else to sell? Are we going to sell HNK? Are we going to sell this assembly? Well, there's no joy at all, the situation is more than difficult and we need to be aware that only HSP can get the state out of this situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17087	Reply to the replica esteemed representative Ivana Sučec-Thrakoštanec.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17088	I don't know why we should be all pessimistic all the time. So, personally, if I may say so, I'm looking forward to just a few little things in the budget, so I'm happy to have a five-bank deal that's been provided to buy out the last grain grain and I'm glad this year it's going to be an example. very good and neatly done. So I'm glad that education is lucky that her projects are going. There's going to be a lot of work this year, a part of it will be paid next year, and that's where those helpers came in and they know what to do. So I am pleased to see, within the budget, a series of positive shifts, so we have only started our mandate and I am pleased that there is a positive shift of good at the beginning of the mandate.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17089	And the fourth replica, the esteemed representative Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17090	I was worried about the joy of my colleague because it is difficult for us to look forward to the story of accounting records, the story of theory, to try to look forward to something transparent and at the same time we are ordering very clearly to the citizens of Croatia, the development of the Republic of Croatia stops. Dear citizens no more investment in telecommunications, no more investment dear citizens in the internet sector, and that's the worst message since we have the best trained personnel in this sector. We recommend with this budget that we spend money on infrastructure because it is a commitment to the European Union, but it will be run by Deuteban and the Austrian railways, but not Croatian because we do not and do not want to invest in them and we have given up on the project. It is also very clear that there are no roads, that roads are slowly completed in those projects as indicated. And we look forward to the fact that we are angry, that more works were done last year so that some roads could be made this year. We look forward to being angry, angry about why someone works, why someone makes it work. Indeed, when we talk about budgets, then we must understand that such behaviour in a budget that does not have development components does not give the citizens of Croatia much opportunity to rejoice.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17091	Thank you. Reply to the replica respected representative Ivana Sučec-Tracostanec.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17092	I could understand your grief, Mr. Linic, but I think it's taking a little too long, the 23rd November is already behind us, so it should be some kind of softer feeling. But if I may say so, I am pleased to repeat what there is, and there will be investment and development in both the railways and the roads and all other infrastructures that make up the improved standard of Croatian citizens and if I may just say a concrete example of my own railway that goes towards Koprivnica. There is a study on environmental impact for the second track of Vrbovac-Botovo, so today it is also done on small projects and on larger ones, comes lean wagons, the modernisation of the railway, it is a highway for Sisak project, it is a project of highway for Bjelovar and Koprivnica. So it's done today and at this point I'm guessing a number of people are drawing, designing and sort of preparing those projects that will be, of course, when possible and implemented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17093	Thank you very much, esteemed colleague. It's my dear colleague Markov's turn. He's gone. He's losing his voice on this subject. It's next, dear colleague Antun Vujic. Here you go, colleague Vujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17094	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Let me also look at the rebalancing of the state budget from the aspect of these activities relating to culture, science and education. I have to say and it's very simple to join critics and it's very simple, and I'm going to do it later, it's easy to confirm them empirically, which is that it actually gave up one of the principles that had been in the previous government for four years, which is that somewhere at least 10% of the annual budgets of the three ministries that cover this area, which we all say is one of the basic areas, that this is the area of human resources development, and then how human resources are those that are more than natural today, and of something else, create economic and general prosperity, is then in some way and giving up on one very important segment of development. All our mouths are full of examples, and we'd like to follow them, so now says an example of Ireland, an example of Finland, I don't know what other countries there are. I don't normally agree with all these other examples because everyone has their own basis for developing, but I agree in the following. That all the countries that have been developing in these three conditionally said sectors, that means science, culture and education have invested, and that never or at least not in modern times and in relation to the factors that are developing today, no one has developed unless in these sectors exactly the main steps have been made. I have to realize that in this respect, in all three sectors, we have a stagnation or even a setback, and that's a two-way setback. It is not only a total ratio of funds given in these three areas but it even includes budget implementation and, therefore, if the budget expresses the political will to support something, on the other hand, the implementation of the budget shows the political inability to do what it wants to do as part of those categories. Let me start with the area on the other side, and that's like this. In preschool education we reduce somewhere by 6 million kuna, in primary school education is reduced by nearly 16 million kuna, books in libraries by 15 million kuna, secondary education is reduced by 200 thousand kuna, well that's not a large item, but it is a characteristic of all these items that relatively small amounts of money give incomparably higher quality results because when it comes to these three sectors then there is an entirely different investment effect, it is investment in value, it can't be measured and with relatively small investments it can achieve a much more significant value. However, we could quote what my colleague Lugaric did otherwise, a lot of what was missed or not realized in the various other segments, or the realizations are zero, and I will specifically look back on the area of culture. We have a very ambitious relationship. First, the support of books, libraries and all of what is therefore publishing activities, and on which development is based to the greatest extent, first down from 59 million kuna to 49 million kuna in the budget, and then it is realized by 30%. This means that for 6 months, 30% of the 10 million kuna is realized less than was foreseen within the same budget, which is certainly 10 million less than it was in the year before. It is a very, very unpleasant defect and it will be reflected in a very delicate way. It is simply through publishing activities that revenues are made in a way that around 30,000 people participate in this. So I'm not just saying that it's kind of a category expressed in value. This category is also expressed in the size of economic categories. This means in employment sizes, in sizes such as the one-hand opening of hundreds of new libraries, now, of course, there will be closures, etc. It's amazing to me that on the moving monuments of a culture of 9 million less than a year ago, it wasn't realized but only 36%. So we used to have 25 million, now we have 16 million, and of those 16 million, in 6 months, 36%. And in the end, there are very crucial and very serious things, and this is investment in the total cultural infrastructure, and here we have, on the one hand, the nominal retention of the same sum of 73 million a year before and in this budget, and the realization of 27 million. I think you can do it this way, you can do it differently. However, it cannot be said that we are developing Croatia in a way that in these sectors we have such serious, on the one hand, namely, first the principle of budget cuts, and then in realising even greater reductions. And now we come up with a very, very interesting question, and it concerns the realization of this budget in a very specific way. In fact, on several occasions on boards, I asked the Ministry of Finance to answer me one very simple thing. Does the budget they wrote down in this document that we're going to vote on also mean paying the commitments? I didn't get a decoded answer, and my information is that regardless of this reduction in culture, of these serious ones, so to speak, the percentages have fallen from one rate of growth that we've had in recent years, they haven't even been realised. So if the contracts are actually treated as performance, then forgive me, I would ask that the Ministry of Finance gentlemen hear me well, so now I'm going to say a term that I'm not going to use. So, I'm not gonna use the term that this is a fake because I hope it isn't. But if we have data that users have not received funds, and at the same time the percentages of what they are, other than those that are catastrophic, then it should be seen very quickly what the actual state of financing really is. Because it'll happen to you next. That in the first six months we haven't realized what we needed to realize, and that in the other six months we won't even be able to realize what we should realize even in the first six months. This is about one very serious deviation from politics, away from principle policy and away from actually politics as a form of public space work. A number of events that have been linked to what I believe some users have not received, consist almost exclusively of not actually working and not deciding where they should have been decided to get those funds. Why this is happening, I don't know, but I think the overall effects will be publicly known. So, I'd like to do it again. We have a budget for a culture that is smaller than the previous one and which on the other hand is not only not at the level of the previous one but, therefore, particularly did not use the rate of growth we had and we have a way of doing that budget that leaves doubts. In some critical places he has also been reported as incomparably smaller than what should have been realized, from 20 to 30 percent instead of 50%, and in some places he leaves doubts whether it is realised as it says in this document. This will be established very quickly, and I expect the Ministry of Finance to come up with a clear picture of what was paid, which was not paid. Between the Ministry of Finance and certain ministries, it can be lost, so to speak, in the effect of funding. This takes place on users in defeat, while at the same time giving a distorted picture, which is actually the topic we are discussing and voting on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17095	Thank you, dear colleague. It's up to the esteemed colleague Vidovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17096	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. I have to say that every time I talk about, here's a second time in the context of the budget on a problem that's kind of tanging and what I've been dealing with in my previous term. This discomfort goes from being able to get the impression that what has been done is to defend what is done, and by some kind of momentum and custom, the opposition must attack everything, that I am also talking about in that sense. However, with great sadness and without any badness, once again, as was the case with the adoption of the budget, I must conclude that unfortunately this budget is more clear today than several months ago the numerical expression of the lack of any vision of this government, the lack of any, therefore, strategy, and of course any policy. Including, of course, the social policy that I never, at least in one newspaper interview, had the opportunity to read and one too many sentences about what this government in the field of social policy really wants to achieve. So if they didn't, at least we'd know that there's such a consistent system that the government insists on. This budget definitely shows that everything that was nice and could be talked about in public simply is being waste. It's just a waste of time. In whose interest, which social groups, is social policy in this country? What is the intention, what are the foundations, what are the principles, what is the model of this social policy, we don't know. But it is evident from this budget that the care of the Homeland War defenders is minus 8%. minus 8% of what was planned. Family, motherhood and youth protection minus 32% compared to plan. Child council, spent zero. Plan minus 30, follow-up and improve policy for people with disabilities, spent 0. Accommodation of wounded Croatian defenders minus 45%, policy for young people 8% of all realised, family services 0% of realisation. Encourage these programmes for young people 0%, support for children-oriented programmes 0%, I'm talking about realisation. For children 0%, alimony 0, service activities for older people 0, living room for older citizens 0. So if it's not for the children, if it's not for the young, if it's not for the elderly, if it's not for the defenders, who is it for, who is it for, who is it for, who is it for, who is it for, who is it for? What is the social policy in which we do not recognize a single target group on whose side this country stands. And then what my colleagues and colleagues mentioned, you know, I wish there weren't now Minister Shucker, I wish I could have all the members of my government that I've been participating, take you to see in what conditions, the flat conditions of living people. Live real people, in what conditions they live in, in welfare centers I've seen all these rats walking through rooms. For 15 years or 10 years nothing has been invested in that system, we've had a war, we've had exiles I know it couldn't have been as much as it wanted, but now that we've finally launched some projects, it's scary this zero we see in front of those objects. If we have managed to invest 500 million kuna in these projects to protect dignity if you want people's integrity because the Centre for Social Work comes with people who need to get there, don't come from obsessing, don't come because they're fine, but because they have a difficult problem, five of them sit in one room. And when we started a plan-oriented system of improving conditions above all for our citizens, but also for the people who work in those facilities, you've interrupted all of this. You interrupted the gentlemen of the Center for Education and Education Slava Raskaj Split no Kuna, Cent for Education Slava Raškaj Zagreb nothing Kuna, Rudine go to the colleague of Cikeš good news but does not go because of the Center for Rehabilitation Ozalj no Kuna, Center for Social Care Križevci mentioned here nothing Kuna, Novska no Kuna, go to the center so you see what conditions they do, Social Care Pula Zero Kuna, Centre for Social Care Sibenik Nothing Kuna, Centre for Social Care Trogir No Kuna, Center for Social Care Valpovo no Kuna, Velika no Kuna, these were intended small coins only to adapt the existing conditions that do not leak the roof. Vinkovci, Centre for Social Care Nothing Kuna, Zlatar Bistrica adaptation and reconstruction of nothing kuna, institution for the execution of criminal sanctions no Kuna, study of social work adaptation and addition of nothing kuna, The therapeutic community of the Dukes nothing kuna, The therapeutic community for addicts Plešivica nothing kuna, records, informing the records of users of social care 6%. Gentlemen, it's too long to give up, it's too long a list of what's been thrown out of this budget. The information mentioned here and to say one major project of reforming the social care system which unfortunately I did not get to the end and which was prepared and worked by 8 teams of the world's most excellent experts and prepared everything, should have just started implementing that system, even the money from abroad, from donations to this one, we had to symbolically participate even not in this budget. Therefore, dear gentlemen, the consequences of this policy shown in this budget will have to be seen as serious compromise and burden to our citizens who have finally earned a little more consideration when it comes to these socially sensitive groups.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17097	Thank you, well-respected colleague Vidovic. It's my dear colleague, Joseph Leco. Here's your colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17098	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Today this is about pessimism and optimism like what economists say is the glass full or half full or half empty. I would love to see these views, however, not about pessimism and optimism, but simply about the facts that are being read from the rebalancing proposal and even more from the government's representatives' statements. In fact, I think we can argue that the macroeconomic measures of one government are not reflected promptly, immediately there are no consequences of the same day, the same month, but the financial consequences or non-payment in the state are felt immediately. There are no more optimism or pessimism there are simply facts because legal persons and citizens and those who deal with the economy warn about indifference. If it is added that it is up to the prime minister of the Croatian government to list the macroeconomic measures and programmes of this government that will ensure the development of the Croatian state of economy and a better standard of the prime minister's citizens, not a single programme, says statistics and please, we agreed that macroeconomic measures do not act immediately, these data are the consequences of Racan's government and they are good. But an old Chinese wisdom says and now this one reminds me of this rebalancing proposal says that "a smart man does not care what he is right now, which are his concerns now, but who are waiting for him", so unfortunately the citizens of the Republic of Croatia can expect bad news and the fall of standards if it continues like this. Is it understandable and interesting to the citizens to talk about the deficit, so please, I'll tell you quite frankly, so what is it, if the government's material is sent to the Parliament that the deficit is 5.1%, then it goes to Washington and it's found to be 6.3%. 6.9. and then they come to us with a rebalance and they say it's 4.5%. So who's confusing who here? If that's the deal, then what's the problem? If this isn't about the real economic situation, the financial situation in the country? And it doesn't seem to be, it's a matter of writing techniques and technologies. But those citizens don't really care. How they're going to book that citizen is not interested. And if the inconsistencies in this government are inconsistencies, the minister himself today says that in rebalancing income an increase of €2820 million will be recorded from HT's profits. And he claims that this profit is not from this year 2004. An honest man says it's a 2002 profit in 2003. But, look, he doesn't book it on 2002 and 2003. Now it suits him to book it as an income in 2004. If we look at things that way, and we have to look at it that way, then we really have to ask the citizens, so what policy is that, what is the programme, what are the goals, why isn't it published? In four years, we'll increase our real standard of living by 2%. Why doesn't it get published? Why is it not announced that the growth of gross domestic product per capita will be 5%, 4%, 3% and what dynamics, on what basis? So that we can compare whether the economic policy measures offered ensure this proposed goal or the promised goal. Not just us, but all the professional and other Croatian public. We don't have that program. We don't have this program and we simply have to admit that the government has no concept in development. When it comes to explaining the reason for the rebalancing, give a tax statement, is it that some of the obligations and items that point to a reduction in deficits from 6.9 to 4.5% were transferred from 2003? They don't show, nobody's saying that now. This is not even a reduction in VAT, as the government gave up VAT, so there is no reason for budget rebalancing the VAT reduction. There is no month as we brought it, and a month we gave up on it, or we abolished the law. It is not the reason for the rebalancing or for ensuring the development of Croatia's railways. He's giving up his development, making sure he's on the so-called. Current business says. But that's not the reason for the rebalancing. There's no reason to rebalance or settle debt to the pensioners. It is explicitly stated that it is not a reason. It's not a reason for rebalancing or supporting the economy. Backup's down. The economic zones the government announced and promised are not encouraged. My colleagues and colleagues, if all of this is not the reason for the proposed rebalancing of the Croatian budget, then what should be the reason? I think the reason is the political need of the ruling party and the lack of a vision of the development of the Republic of Croatia. It is, of course, legitimate, but it is not encouraging for the built Republic of Croatia. And that's what the citizens need to know. If there is another important fact from the rebalance to read, that the price level that was scheduled for 2.5% will be increased to 4%, therefore plannedly, that economists certainly know what is announced. And then it is a great danger to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia and to their so-called low economic security, because price instability is still the worst for the small man. And let me finish. Due to today's loss of vision, due to today's abandonment of economic and development programmes, Croatia will experience this shortfall in the next few years and will feel the fall of standards if this government does not change its economic policy in an urgent manner. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17099	Thank you, dear colleague. It's my dear colleague Mimica's turn. Here's my colleague Mimica.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17100	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and fellow MPs. ... [[I don't know what you're talking about.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17101	You don't have to be angry, I didn't see. We'll make it right. My colleague Mimica, please allow me to correct. Correction of an incorrect quote, a respected colleague. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17102	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Representative Leco said the citizens don't care how they book costs. That's not true. Citizens are interested in how expenses are recorded, for they are, and we too expected to be done in accordance with the law. Unfortunately, you only wrote down what suits you to cover up the accidental spending of budget money without the Parliament's permission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17103	Thank you very much. My colleague Mimica, you have your word now. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17104	I thank you again, Mr. Vice President. Yesterday, on a radio show, the Prime Minister rejected objections from the opposition that the government does not have an economic programme, determined that the government knows what it wants. And I trust him. It's just not hard to want something, it's a problem to know what's wanted. It is this budget rebalancing that the government does not know how to achieve what it wants and that there is no economic programme. Because in the already famous HDZ guarantee card, it first guaranteed voters tax cuts. Does anyone see this tax reduction in this budget or in the fiscal projections adopted by the government by 2007, and have not even given them to the Parliament? And after the most careful search in these documents, it remains only the fact that they mean an increase in taxes, that they mean an increase in consumption, that they mean full disclosure of the true nature and purpose of HDZ pre-election guarantees. After six months. But problems do not stop at the question of the credibility of the guarantee card. The government's approach to rebalancing and understanding the role of the budget in development policy is even more worrying. The government is trying to convince us that the greatest achievement of fiscal policy is to reduce the deficit of the state budget at all costs. We'd have to believe she's a better government that can secure a lower budget deficit. In fact, representatives and the Croatian public are expected to close their eyes to reject the achievement of the fiscal policy and practices of the vast majority of developed countries, as well as transition countries that have proved for decades that the government is better able to ensure the sustainability of the budget deficit in order to finance development rather than spending. But our government does not recognise or know such a positive practice of other countries and insists on finding reasons why it is allegedly forced to reduce the deficit. No one should understand that I'm in favour of an uncontrollable deficit in the state budget. I am merely saying that a controlled relatively higher deficit of 5 to 6% of GDP at this stage can bring significantly greater development benefits if it is directed to support economic development rather than to single current consumption. In this consumer concept, the deficit is really dangerous and should be reduced which would not be the case in a different development concept of the budget. Unfortunately, the government is based on wrong assumptions, so let's raise our taxes, spend our dividends, and all that to cover the current consumption that we don't give up. This goes in the opposite direction than the necessary increase in the competitiveness of the Croatian economy. That's how we come up with two key government arguments. The first deficit must be reduced because this requires the IMF and the second is that the deficit must be reduced because with the budget deficit above 3% of GDP we cannot enter the European Union. The first argument is not acceptable and the second argument is not true. The Croatian Government is responsible for the development of the Croatian economy, not the IMF. The low deficit in this development phase can be devastating for the economy because it would mean withdrawing the state from fostering economic initiatives and economic and social programmes and it will be very soon confirmed, only then will it no longer help the IMF because, as with some other countries that have blindly followed its recipes, it will be far enough from the dissatisfaction that will be placed on the back of the Croatian government. We probably have only three, four years to make sure that the economic adjustments in the conditions that exist in the European Union are fully completed. Those candidate countries that have maintained the highest budget deficit possible for as long as possible, such as the Czech Republic, ranging from 9% to 12% of GDP, have achieved the best economic development and best adaptations to the European Union. However, those who moderately maintained budgetary balance, such as Bulgaria, could boast of meeting the Mastricht criteria but not meeting the expectations of their citizens for a better standard of living. I know what to choose in this doubt. Unfortunately, the government in rebalancing is not choosing the same priorities. It chooses a policy of meeting the IMF's request on the first call and hides behind that call. This is how we come to a more difficult and long-term issue, which is how the government will lead the negotiations on Croatia's entry into full membership of the European Union. Such a willingness to yield as demonstrated in the case of negotiations with the IMF or in the case of an eco-fishing band cannot leave anyone calm and confident that our future negotiating team will be able to consistently and persistently defend our negotiating positions and negotiating interests. Also, this government proposal is throwing into the water and makes all the earlier accusations that the opposition HDZ has made to the former government for allegedly too quick completion and questionable outcome of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement negotiations with the European Union, and in particular makes ridiculous assurances to the public that HDZ would be much better and more determined in these negotiations to protect Croatian national interests. The permissibility, inconsistency and avoidance of real dialogue with international institutions cannot be a good sign of the way the government's negotiators will be asked in a much larger number of difficult negotiating issues that soon await them and all of Croatia. Furthermore, in addition to the fact that the low deficit of the budget is incorrect as a condition for the European Union's entry into the rebalancing process, the Government is going in a completely opposite direction to what is really a condition for membership in the European Union, which is to regulate the area of state aid, agriculture and environmental protection. It is indisputable that we, for the sake of membership, must reduce the level of state support and change their structure in favour of the so-called ". horizontal support. We need to break the direct vertical link between the state budget and the business of an individual specific company but the government has remained halfway here. He knows that he must reduce state support but does not want to give up his role as a direct distributor of taxpayers' money. Therefore, in the rebalancing process, it is decided to abolish horizontal support, for example in the processing industry, precisely those which are the cornerstone of state aid policy in the European Union. Unfortunately, we will not come within a millimeter to the European Union in this important area. I would like to tell the Croatian public and the Parliament that we must not believe in the claim that we will not enter the European Union unless we reduce the budget deficit to below 3% of GDP or if we do not meet the master criteria. Many times in the previous assembly of the Parliament in this assembly I listened to the opposition MPs at the time claim that why Croatia and hastens to the European Union when and thus cannot enter it because it has a GDP per capita below $10,000 per head. This condition has been fully invented because this is not a criterion for entering European Union membership and the best evidence and best denial of such a claim is the fact that today half of the countries that have joined the European Union have below $10,000 GDP per capita and at least half of them have GDP below today's Croatian GDP. Now a similar thesis runs from 3% of GDP. I think there's a clear mix of Copenhagen criteria and Mastricht criteria. We do not need master criteria before the introduction of the euro and none other than Lithuania of these countries which have now entered the European Union meet the master criteria. Hungary, for example, does not meet any of the four master criteria of convergence. Therefore, it is not the European Union or anyone outside us who will determine our fiscal policy. It must be a reflection of our development priorities and our economic strategies and this rebalancing is absolutely not. Its concept and individual items will be very difficult to correct the amendments, but it is worth a try for ourselves and for a better life in better Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17105	Thank you very much, colleague Mimica. Correction of an incorrect quote, a respected colleague of Zubovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17106	I would like to correct Mr. Mimica's claim that the opposition at the time said that the condition of 10,000 gross social products per capita. It was not about that, it was said that it would be good if it were 10 grand to enter the European Union. So, it's the wrong assumption that you turned that we said it was a condition. We just said it would be good if the population were so much per capita.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17107	Thank you very much, Comrade Zubovic. The word is made by a representative of the motionary Minister of Finance, Mr. Shucker. Here you go, Mr. Shucker!
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17108	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament! We seem to be forgetting things very quickly. If I'm not mistaken, the 2004 projection of the former government deficit was below 4% and the government's deficit proposed for 2004 is 4.5%. Then you're contradictory to yourself, so what you said in this House was never meant to happen because your projections went to be somewhere around 3.2-3.3 in 2005. These are your projections of fiscals that you have proposed to this Parliament. So your proposal was a deficit in 2004 below 4.5%, these were your macroeconomic and fiscal projections. Look at them in the materials, and you'll see it was that. Another thing, very interesting how easily you accuse negotiators of an agreement with the IMF. When you see it on the Internet pages, then you can talk about it and you'll see it's not nearly the way you think it is. And very interesting that you put yourself in a position that you are the only one who can negotiate with the European Union. Well, I guess some others can do something else. But it's very interesting that your concern for the population, for the standard, was not for all of us when money was spent beyond the decision of this House and the people who sat in this speaker. But I'm saying, I'd like to ask Mr. Vice President to allow me to speak. So the projection, the fiscal former government for the 2004 deficit, was 3.7% of gross domestic product. Now the deficit is 4.5%. Very interesting if the government sets out master criteria for fiscal policy making that you claim that these are not the conditions for joining the European Union but are the conditions for a monetary union. Well, we know that very well, only if we had continued the policy of the last government, you would have exceeded the master criteria by half of 2005. The public debt of the Republic of Croatia would grow over 60%. But when such negative things happen, then you can't stop them in one day, in a month, in half a year, it's not a car, so to press the brake and stop, it's very hard to stop things. Therefore, if the Government set criteria for it, what is negative about it? Criteria that are even lighter in the first two years than you claimed to be in 2004. But your actual deficit in 2004 was 6.3%. You've funded beyond the budget to hair macroeconomic indicators. You're the ones who didn't show the deficit of local self-government units. According to your statement, the local self-government units were in addition to the surplus, there was no borrowing in 2003. That's your statement that you sent and which is officially published and that you sent to the International Monetary Fund. But unlike the former negotiators, Croatian negotiators have been working on the tables they negotiated on the second day. They weren't waiting for them at the IMF. That's the difference. And for every item that's been said there, you know exactly where it came off and why it came off. But a billion and 500 million, to pay off, to raise loans beyond the budget, beyond the knowledge of the Croatian public and the provosts, is something this government certainly won't support. Also, I said the case, the trust board, 19 million for Victor Lenac. That it would come back from the Development and Employment Fund. That's what the government had no idea. That way, if we're gonna talk, then we can talk. Why not? I said, take except for four increases in expenditures a billion 214 million in expenditures due to HZ, to finance wages, to finance one part of the investment, 500 million in the Ministry of Finance, these are interest and paid guarantees in which in the first 6 months only Viktor Lenac 169 million, and when you add 160 million to the Fund for Development and Employment, that's 95% of your budget rebalance. Only those four items that this government has not been able to influence by any decision but are the costs that have been made in advance, predetermined. I can't say that we're the blood that someone at the end of the 12th or early this year practically the Croatian railways are in charge of 180 million, that no one in this government had any idea of it, no one in this government had any idea of it. And it happened. So someone's made decisions about it before. And let's see what the rebalance of this budget is. Yes, the mistake of this government is that by 614 million it reduced the deficit, that's the error of this government, 614 million is a reduced deficit. The government's mistake is that this year 424 million will be owed less than the projected deficit at the beginning of the year. The mistake of this government is that she warned some things, yes, it's a mistake. It's a mistake, but unlike you, we didn't call anyone, we didn't send for police talks or anything else. Unlike you, where your predecessors are, your fellow former ministers have a deeper captainship at the police station talks. And nobody did that here, why? Because simply if someone's going to investigate someone, I don't care, but some things need to be shown, you should say. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17109	Please allow the minister to finish. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17110	Mr. Linic, you told a bank manager what you said in your office that you were in charge of economic crime and you were Deputy Prime Minister. Your colleague, Minister Lucin, was in charge of economic crime. But, I say, all the cuts in this set that were contained in 169 million paid guarantees to Viktor Lentz, paid guarantees to Viktor Lentz.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17111	Correction of an incorrect quote by a respected colleague, Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17112	The first correction of the incorrect assumption that our deficit was supposed to be 3.7 is, it was supposed to be 3.7 but with a far lower level of consumption, which means a larger amount of investment. Given that both the plan and the rebalancing for this year is more consumption, it takes a bigger deficit because you imposed this on the projections of your budget. Therefore, do not compare the fiscal projections of the former government and these are not comparable at all. As far as my conversation with the director responsible for the embezzlement at the postal bank is concerned, it's unfortunate that you support such a person. And at the time I spoke with her after the Government of the Republic of Croatia's decision I was in charge of running a special working group of the Government for Economic Crime.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17113	You'll get it slowly. All slow. Please, first of all, Mr. Matusic's injury to the Rules of Procedure, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17114	Well, my colleague Linic broke Article 209. The Rules of Procedure for not correcting the incorrect allegations at all have already confirmed that what the Minister said was correct and so planned. 3.7% deficit. Therefore, he only confirmed and misused the bat to correct an incorrect quote. He needs to be warned about that.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17115	So he did not abuse the baton to correct the incorrect allegations because he spoke among other things about whether or not he was running a working group on economic crime. Yeah. I beg your pardon, Mr. Linic's violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17116	This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Then I apologize.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17117	You'll get it, you'll get the word, Mr. Minister. Take it easy. Correction of the incorrect quote by colleague Vujic. Here you go, Mr. Vujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17118	Threatened I might not guess. That's what I have to say, which is that here are such heavy accusations heard at the earlier government that are the level of incrimination for criminal acts. Well, I'd like to ask Mr. Secretary to take the appropriate actions. I hear from my portfolio that you've left some debts of 70 million kuna to just hear off the records, nothing concrete and nothing real. So please, before you charge us like that, stand behind some clear decision and let's see where we are. This can't be listened to like this anymore!
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17119	Thank you, thank you very much. I have to say, all I have to say is that you haven't corrected the incorrect allegations, you've been talking about the debate. Please do not abuse the plate correcting the incorrect quote. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, colleague Byte. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17120	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr Vujic injured Article 209. The Rules of Procedure, because he was not correcting the incorrect allegations, but expressed his opinion and polymized with Mr. Minister. You didn't have to. It's the Rules of Procedure's injury.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17121	That's what I said. Thank you very much. Here's a word for Mr. Shucker's proposal. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17122	Mr. Vice President, you can see from the phonogram that I said that the former Deputy Prime Minister told one of the former bank directors that and that. Afterwards, Mr Linic said that I support crime and criminal acts. Mr. Linic, I don't know what you're judgmental about. Another thing you can't be the judge of this country. When I said you told her that, I didn't say a word to support anyone. So get a phonogram, but that's also on the trail of that statement that Sanader's government fits criminals. And you can say that, and we can't say anything. That's very interesting. You can't accuse me of supporting criminal activities. Read your phonogram but it is very interesting to read some of your phonograms on some of the boards of directors.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17123	I must conclude that I should not have given you my word because this was an answer to the correction of the incorrect quote rather than to the debate of the proposing representatives over which subject was to be dealt with. You should have waited for one of the speakers to keep talking. Correction of the incorrect quote, colleague Linic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17124	I repeat. By decision of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, Deputy Prime Minister Slavko Linic was in charge of leading a task force to investigate economic crime and that was why I spoke to her. And I gave a personal assessment that Mr. Minister supported the banker who stole the Croatian bank for a reason which is unacceptable, which is [[The intruders don't understand.]] Which is unacceptable to enter into talks related, a man who was in charge on behalf of the government regarding research into economic crime. [[What is this? What is this?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17125	Thank you. I didn't expect this to have to happen but the fact is that you overstepped fellow Linic in your correction of the incorrect allegations of your authority. As an agent, you have offended Mr. Shuker's Minister of Finance and on the basis of Article 214 I give you a warning. We're continuing the debate. It's all right. It's my colleague Linic's turn. Here you are, having a discussion.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17126	I'll be very personal in my debate this time. I listened to myself these five years in the Croatian Parliament really much about the economy and the budgets and the peak of everything was when Minister Schuker defended the first budget, and now the rebalancing said about the positive trends in 1999 when HDZ last had power before the new mandate. In 1999, years of robbed banks, unsuccessful privatisations, street workers, 150 thousand unpaid salaries, a month's delay in pensions, social benefits and a month and a month's and a half, and usual payment deadlines above 360 days. Fully paralyzed payment system, country deficit 8.2%, negative trends in social product growth. It's a condition found in 2000. According to Minister Shuker, it's much better than 2003. Great. And that's why the problem is how to understand, how to talk, how to even try to find common language when we compare in 2003 and 1999 and we declare it successful and remarkable. Yeah, it was hard to be a minister back then, it was hard to start dealing with the economy and the budgets, but unlike these six months where I've been constantly listening to non-transparentity, you've worked too hard, you've spent too much, you've created deficits, you've cheated on the international world. A good part of us got caught up in the work and tried to do because we very clearly tried to solve the situation because we were working to realize and part of the electoral messages that the parties then gave. And, of course, four years of work, I remember hours in this assembly again. It is. Each budget was assessed by the opposition as socially insensitive, no development, no economic policy. Four years of opposition behavior the same way. And it's true. Run the roads, run the roads, paid unpaid salaries, paid regular pensions, paid for the first time partially and debts for pensions and also settled and consolidated many companies. 25 major companies with majority ownership stop being losers, become companies that make profits and become companies that make investments in Croatian development. Yeah. This is the result of work in 4 years of the coalition government that did not have economic growth by the opposition and did not have development policy. And her budget wasn't developmental. And that's why I have to compare it to this budget right now. The project of modernisation and structural change in Croatia's railway is being abandoned. It leaves and retains the subsidisation of passenger transport and investment in rail infrastructure. There will be no Croatian railways in freight, there will be no Croatian railways in passenger traffic on the lines of European corridors. He won't be competitive because he doesn't have the resources. The absurd is also resented by investment in the road. Last year, you worked too hard on the roads. Who gave you that right? You didn't have Parliament decisions, you couldn't cheat on the IMF, you cheated on the IMF, and you didn't count everything and so on. But the truth is, because the roads didn't work this year, we don't have a road finished in time, which would be very welcome for the tourist season and for Dalmatia. That's the facts. But we didn't need that much because we have time, we don't have to rush. There's no need to rush because development is not the priority of this government. Yeah. Two years of Croatian Telecommunications gain remained in Croatian Telecommunications. They remained for the reason that the next most important project to be launched last year was investment in internetisation or the "IT sector". Two Croatian companies that need the Croatian market are also called Croatian Siemens and Erricsson Tesla, but also a hundred private companies, entrepreneurs who are able to sell their knowledge beyond the borders of Croatia after schooling at Elektrotechnics in Split, Zagreb, but they also need the whole public sector. Because I'm behind on all this. Without them, it's hard to imagine me third generation in telecommunications. We're also talking about MTS. Who's going to finance it. Who? Two years of battery created in telecommunications to move. Both with JUMTSO and to try to finally do something more in the public sector and introduce modern technology into the public sector. We are now spending on spending in the state budget for 2004. Yeah. It's a project abandonment. There's no more money to be used to develop new technologies right now. The structural change in the Croatian economy was to keep the industry real. But given the reduced possibility of our placement in Europe and on the European market, given the important structural changes in how to hire Croatia's builders in new activities. These new activities were also new technology to provide knowledge but also these new activities are a service sector. Tourism and tourism without infrastructure cannot succeed. And that's what worries us. That's what we're talking about. And we can't support a proposal like this that doesn't want to go up and start a cycle of development in the Republic of Croatia. And of course, we'll be just as mean as we were in opposition until 203. I'm well-remembered incessant failures you failed to deliver an election promise from the PDVu. And we said we didn't because we cut contributions because you don't need to cut PDVEs. We didn't because we reduced the untaxable income. And if you are reading materials in the past budget if you are reading materials in the implementation of the budget, the effects of the post-if reduction in the rate of contribution and due to the introduction of new rates of non-taxable income have been assessed positively. Days are effects. I would say the results of economic change in the Republic of Croatia. Yes, that's true, but that's why we can say you promised to cut VAT, give a guarantee card that you didn't raise taxes, which is the result of this budget. The result of this budget is built to pay higher taxes. And the PDWE won't see a cut in the four-year term. It's not only that it's not about keeping pre-election promises, it's also a deviation from the guarantee card.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17127	Thank you. We have quite a correction of incorrect allegations, so we'll get started. Mr. Ivan Jarnjak answered first.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17128	It is an incorrect assumption that Minister Schuker compared only to 99. But he also compared with 2003 and said that positive movements were a trend of positive movements in the second half of the 99th year, unlike in 2003 when they had a negative trend. That's an ethical allegation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17129	Thank you. Katarina Fuček correction of the incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17130	Mr. Vice President, in his presentation, Mr. Linic said that the former government resents the other and the construction of roads. I'm correcting you by that incorrect assumption. Because the roads began to build far before. And ten years before this previous government came. I mean, it's really like that. But it is against the insubordination of the law and the expendation beyond the plan and approval of this House. Why the budget law is a fundamental law in which all revenue and expenditure are planned. That's what you resented, and that's what you should have known before. And the roads are built by this government.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17131	Thank you very much. Mr. Kajo Bucan. Correction of an incorrect allegation.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17132	I am correcting the incorrect allegation of the esteemed representative Linic, who said that out of the opposition there were messages that they were the i.e. coalition power spent too much. And that's what he considers an incorrect claim. I find your claim incorrect that you did not spend too much because it gives me the right statement by Governor Rohatinski of May 2003, which speaks of the need for a smooth suspension of the country's future borrowing because I quote, without new borrowing, there will be no orderly service of the existing debt.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17133	Thank you very much. The correction of the quote has Ivan Vukic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17134	I am correcting Mr. Linic's incorrect allegations in part that this government is stopping the modernisation of Croatian railways. Mr. Linič this government does not stop the modernisation of Croatian railways, but only slows down the modernisation of Croatian railways. And you, as chairman of the Supervisory Board by 2003, should know why. We will not modernise the Croatian railway for investment, but when we resuscitate the debts of Croatian railways. Croatian railways made three and a half billion in 2003. Rashoda 3 billion and 700, and its own income was 850 million kkun. 31.12. In 2003, Croatian railways owed 519 million kuna suppliers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17135	Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect quote by Mrs. Maria Byte.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17136	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, there are several incorrect allegations I will correct one of them where Mr. Linic said he resented that we resented investment in the road. That's incorrect. Because the HDZ government started building roads if you remember more with the SV tunnel. The deadline and the Maslenica Bridge is true that we resented the non-transparent budget because no investment in the road is shown through the budget. And also Mr. Linic said by listing how they solved all the problems of the Republic of Croatia, not unfortunately they tasked the citizens of the Republic of Croatia with more than $13 billion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17137	Correction of the incorrect quote by Mrs Ivanka Roksandić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17138	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, so I must correct Mr. Linic and remind him. He said the consolidated are many companies 25 large companies has been modernised. The 25 large companies included Sisak Ironworks, which in 2000 had signed a contract with Samsung to invest $50 million. Those millions of dollars have been rerouting to the port of Rijeka, so here we have been fighting for years with the survival of this hardware store.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17139	Thank you very much. The opinion has been delivered, but since we are not all largely correcting but merely expressing our opinions, we will continue to change our rules of procedure. Mr. Representative Plesko's correction to an incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17140	I thank Mr. Vice-President, my colleague Linic claimed that the success of last government was a good economic programme that had produced some results. I can say it's an incorrect claim because their program made it that we have $15 billion in external debt, with an incomplete four-year reign of theirs.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17141	It's also a correction of opinion. Mr. Bitumen.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17142	I'm correcting Mr. Linic's incorrect claim. I quote: 1999 is the year of the robbed banks and the destroyed economy. That is not true, the process is if it is partly and correctly it continued mainly in 2001, 2002 and 2003. I'll just mention the River Bank, Victor Lenac, so I don't keep counting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17143	Thank you very much. More Mr. Markovanovic. Here you go. ... Mrs. Majdenic, I'm sorry. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17144	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Linic said we said he worked too hard on the roads. It is not true that we have established that you have worked too hard on the roads because the financing of highways has been untransparent and one of the biggest reasons for breaking last year's budget and a major deficit of 6.7 gross domestic product. The only alibi of your impotence and control of spending is that each of your coalition partners spent as much as they wanted.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17145	Thank you very much. On behalf of the promoter, Minister Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17146	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, because of the record that someone said no more, and what they didn't say, I said about this speaker that in the first semester there were negative trends and that there were positive trends in the second term. Unfortunately, back in 2003, that's what I said. But at no time has anyone here disputed that the past government has made certain economic shifts and other things. No one has ever slowed that down, and it would be extremely incorrect to say that, and I'm saying that because of the record, and you're also going to allow me to have the right to have this government's opinion as a representative, so I'd like to ask a purely rhetorical question like this. What did we increase the consumption in? And when the budget is proposed, and during today's debate on rebalancing, it's always convincing us that we haven't provided enough resources in any ministry, and the budget is 2.5 billion more than last year. It's very interesting that in 2.5 billion of the increased budget there's not exactly enough money provided for anything, that's very interesting. I'd like to at all this rhetorical game today that someone said was at that position and that position you increased your consumption by 100, 200, 300, 500 million, and you shouldn't have. Such an argument was not heard during the debate on the budget, and it was not heard today either. So they have certain consumption categories that are inherited. Collective contract in the 10th month of last year, a billion kuna spending more this year. No one can say we're not gonna pay people more wages, that's what the former government brought in, and no one mentioned it here today, even here in the assembly. Why would I bring that up? That's what we said once. However, there is another question, how many unpaid accounts remain in 2003. As a representative of the opposition in 1999, we found 9 billion and 100 million were left unpaid accounts of 4 billion and 100 paid through the Ministry of Finance, can be seen in position, issued 2.5 billion were issued bonds to cover old foreign exchange savings coming at the end of this year and early next year on payment. A billion and 700 million kuna bonds issued for HZZO obligations which a propos are now coming at the 7th month of payment. So it's just that the payment period has been extended, the debt has not literally been paid back to suppliers at that point, and there's no more obligation. But this government also inherited those billions and 700 to be paid now in the 7th month, plus 533 million that had already passed the payment deadline of 31 December 2003 and several hundred million more, which are due in the 1st and 2nd of 2004. That is true, it is unfortunately our truth and our daily life that we cannot escape from because our fiscal capacity of the state is unfortunately too weak to cover certain social benefits and that is our truth and it is not a matter of either the HDZ or the SDP, but it is simply our truth. But I'd like to hear how much we've raised pension expenditure without the SDP doing so if he hadn't stayed in power. How much did we increase? What makes our indexation more unfavourable than yours? Nothing. Even this one might even be a little more favourable. So say it. Social contributions, clearly and loudly said, will increase the maternity allowance of 1.7 and that is calculated into the budget. We're going to increase the child's allowance, calculated into the budget. It costs so much and so much millions. But it doesn't cost so much and so many billions of kunas because that's not true. You've created such great consumption in the previous period. So much for spending. And as far as investment is concerned, it's very interesting, says the roads didn't work this year. The financial plan of the Croatian highways this year is originally higher than the financial plan of the highway in 2003 without that decline at the end of the year, and it is very interesting that we cannot make enough highways with these same means, but the previous government could make far more... So it is not true that the trend of investment in Croatia's circular, capital investment has stopped, and that is the highway. So the deficit of Croatian highways this year is 3.5 billion kuna, as was the deficit of Croatian highways in the budget, the financial plan of revenue and expenditure of the Croatian highways for 2003, and if we add that revenue from excise duties, given the higher amount of fuel consumption, will be more productive in 2004 than it was in 2003, and given the newly built highways and put into circulation, it is expected that millions of kunas will be more revenue than tolls. If it's the same deficit, then it's logical to add up to each other that the amount of highway funds this year is higher than that of 2003. Thus, pure mathematics says that these investment funds have not been reduced. For HH very clearly. If you had any serious intention of building a HZ project, you would have gone with him last year with 1.7, as foreseen by the HH Act. So you didn't go, you delayed for some other time. You planned to raise the excise duty, but it was your concept and I have nothing against it. Maybe if we were you, we'd raise our excise duties. So that's something that's not controversial, but you can't say that because of what's happened both because of rainy days and this and what hasn't been done for a few dozen miles, 10-15km of highways, that this government doesn't build highways, and we're investing more money than was foreseen by the financial plan in 2003 without that incursion at the end of the year, those billions and 700 million kunas. There are definitely 841 million kunas of unpaid Croatian highway work that had to be paid this year. It's left unpaid simply. There are 230 million left from the state budget of the bonds issued by the government to be transferred to the Croatian highways by 20.11. Unfortunately, these money didn't stay on the national budget's jury account, which is something neither you nor I can dispute. It's here and it's over. But they have some things that maybe don't need political rhetoric and politics isn't the place. The same deficit is as big as it is, but the projections were as they are. But it was definitely that in 2003 with a deficit below 6% could not be closed, it is now, after, say, a time interval of 6 months based on all indicators, based on all the bills paid, based on the costs done, to be determined and that is that. And it is not a complaint to the International Monetary Fund because it is said that some wrong report has come from Croatia, it is neither Slavko Linic nor Ivan Šuker, nor Ivica Racan, nor Ivo Sanader, it is the report of the Republic of Croatia. And no one there sees us as Linic or Shuker. Therefore, to say that this is the case, however, to bring the state into a situation that this year has a budget of 3.6, 3.7 on the basis of what was promised simply could not be allowed. For the simple reason that all these bills had to be paid. And I thought that after a few conversations we had together, at least we agreed to it and that we could put it under the rug. In my opening statement today, I didn't mention one word in 2003 because I didn't think we should discuss it anymore, that we should turn to what's waiting for us tomorrow. It also concerns negotiations with the European Union. They have two differences between the negotiations that are expected with the European Union and those expected, negotiations with the IMF. Negotiations with the European Union will be far more firm, far stricter and far more difficult for Croatia than these negotiations we had with the IMF. And I know that you probably had harder negotiations with the IMF than we did because it was a different time, it was a different situation. That's what you need to say here in this House. You have achieved your goals, you have reached certain arrangements, we have achieved ours. But what awaits us now in negotiations with the European Union, if we are going to have these talks here in this assembly, then we do not need negotiators from the European Union. We'll take care of ourselves. We'll take care of ourselves. All the countries that have made a step forward, whether old members of the European Union or new, had the strength and the political powers to agree on some topics where there was a national consensus that this must be done, that this would not be discussed in the Assembly. That's what the Slovenes did. That's what the Irish did. We like to call on Slovenians because they are our neighbours and we like to call on the Irish because they have made a fantastic economic step. The second is a pair of shoes that they got a billion dollars a year, which unfortunately we won't get. But in Croatia and this House of the High, we will have to start having such discussions. It doesn't matter that Linic and Schuker are fighting. That's irrelevant, but there are some things that are above us and therefore, ladies and gentlemen, look at the phonogram of my debate this morning in the opening part of the budget. I didn't say one word in 2003, not one word. And that's why, trying to have other goals waiting for us here, that with 19.6., one chapter is finished, we have another chapter waiting for us. And this economic battle we must win. Because it is easy to say not the conditions for entering the European Union 60% of gross domestic product public debt and 3% deficit. It's easy to say, but if you don't get close to it and stay within those limits it'll be very difficult in half a year or a year when it's necessary to adapt to it. That's what those who have fought in the economy know well what that means. They know that very well. Let us get to 65, 66% of the public debt of gross domestic product will take years and years to descend below 60% for the simple reason that both competition and everything else will not allow us to have that kind of growth of gross domestic product to get into those criteria. And also, when you give someone rights, it's impossible or very difficult to take away, and the rights are practically deficits. And that's our problem. These are the structural problems of public finances in the Republic of Croatia. That's what's the biggest problem. I still argue that one of the biggest public finances problems is the revenue side. Unfortunately, too much money leaks past where they should be, and these are state finances. Why hasn't anyone held a seminar with people around VAT in the IRS for three years? I don't know that. I don't know that. And neither do I want a colleague, I'm sorry that there's no mate in the pay phone, I don't want to accuse him at all, but these are things, we can't talk about people being able to do a certain job if we don't give them education and education. That doesn't require nearly any resources. One time in 3 months, 100 or 200 people are invited or in Zagreb or elsewhere, a one-day seminar is held so that people are stalking a little. Unfortunately, it wasn't done. I have mentioned three or four times the problem of tracking excise duties. Not with the intention of criticizing someone, but for all of you who have been chosen by the people, to lead some kind of policy here to simply warn of a particular problem. I can't have two people who no one has practically tried to educate in the last three years, they can't handle the cost problem in quality. I can't. You know what revolution caused the moment we said that the Chinese textile containers, from Turkey, would be controlled in the right way. The whole revolution. Why? Well, you know why. Three border crossings through which cigarettes are exported. You know why it was introduced. Therefore, it can't bring results in a month, two, three or five. I tried here several times, not to complain to anyone, but to warn us all together about certain things, that since 2000, only one category of VAT rate has been introduced. In 2000, 13 billion products and services were characterised as supplies with a zero VAT rate. At the end of 2003, the amount increased to 20 billion, with only 2 billion kuna in 2003, according to all indicators of VAT zero in tourism. And now it's just asking a question, and what about the other five billion? Did something else slip through the door with some kind of release? So, not with the intention of objecting to anyone, but these are our problems because these are our fellow citizens' money. We have to take care of them. How successful or unsuccessful we will be, it is not even dependent on people who do it more than on a number of other circumstances. So this debate today, both in the morning and several times in this direction. Unfortunately, however, she ended up somewhere else, but I said both Slovenia and Ireland reached a consensus on the most important things and they said it was something outside of politics and we have to stick to it, we will not discuss it. We will have to do the same thing in Croatia, if we want to get out of this plane space where we are and if we want to welcome the entry into the European Union in 2007. It will be the biggest tragedy after all these great political efforts that have been made to get us some kind of little economic guff and someone telling us, you can't enter the European Union because of that. Well, it could be that very 3% deficit and it could be that 60% of the gross domestic debt product. Now that would be a tragedy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17147	Correction of an incorrect quote, Madam Representative Dragica Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17148	Minister Shuker incorrectly says that we do not want, the opposition does not want a consensus on some important issues today when entering, when we are on the threshold before entering the European Union. That's incorrect. Come, come with the program and the projects on which the consensus is to be reached, and we will reach a consensus on this. Unlike you, who, when we adopted the Stabilisation and Association Agreement with the European Union, left the hall. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17149	Nobody said anything about leaving the gym, so you couldn't even fix it, but how does everybody do it then, right? ... Thank you very much. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Now he has the word of Vice President Mato Arlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17150	Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. No matter what this debate is, it is actually long and it is very complex and it is very difficult to go from a fundamental, one position, which is that this budget rebalance opens a whole series of issues, and also compared to how the announced programme or the guarantee programme of Prime Minister Sanader or the ruling party is implemented today and how it is pictured through budget rebalancing, or how it is materially implemented. Perhaps it would be good to remind, however, of some things that are inexorablely accurate figures, and which, unfortunately, speak a lot. The first should remind, however, that we have a steady decline in economic growth this year compared to the growth rate we had last year. Our growth rate is planned to be 3.7% this year and it should be recalled that the growth rate in the last year was a clear rate of 4.3%. It should also be recalled that there is also a decline in industrial production that is growing at 3.2% in the first 6 months of this year, and last year it had a 6.3% growth rate. The retail trade also registered double lower growth, it should be recalled that in the first 3 months of this year in Croatia three times less invested than it was invested in Croatia since foreign investments last year at the same time and that these investments unfortunately ended mainly in trade and that there is no investment in development or in the economy, industry etc. When a budget rebalancing is seen from that aspect, it opens up a critical question of whether it gives any momentum at all, whether it is also founded on macroeconomic policy, economic policy at the end of the day in general economic policy and what needs to be achieved. If we add to this some other figures that are important and result from the macroeconomic projection of the comparison only in 2003 and 2004, where it is evident that the revenues of the 2004 budget are growing compared to the revenues of 2003 and, despite this, the expenditures of the budget are also slightly reduced after this rebalancing, we will see a rise in this year compared to the previous year of public debt, that we are also growing from $23.2 billion to $2.5. billion in foreign debt, and in such a situation, it is obviously a question of what objectives and tasks would have to have a general budget, then a rebalancing..., it would have to be a developmental one, it would have to open up a space for economic growth and development and that would have to continue to create encouraging measures for the development of industrial production and not only industrial production, but also all services involving trade in nature of all other activities. Now, what's interesting? It is interesting when reading this rebalancing that there is no development, there are virtually no projects that can carry growth and development, it does not give any development perspective, although even solving more serious social problems than maintaining a social situation, and according to certain categories of social users, not all of them, unfortunately to some it is restrictive and reduced rights reached and opportunities at the same time in achieving them and for such a situation it is only a question of why no macroeconomic shift is taking place, so this cannot go on. Because what these indicators show is clearly that it is a tidal wave, a current development and growth based on projects of previous governments, or the previous government, and that in such a situation this tidal wave when it stops will actually have a constant decline. The next question is whether it is possible that some kind of economic programme that can appear before us is actually an arrangement programme with the International Monetary Fund. How do you realize it? He seeks restrictions on social spending on consumption, on the other hand, at the same time we are in a situation that, in practice, we should not be able to monitor the much more important consumption that needs to be growthed, it is investment consumption.... to create new jobs, employment and economic development, and in such a situation, a very serious question is being raised or consequences that will cause even more economic and tax policy measures such as not only instead of us reducing VAT but we have actually increased revenues based on taxes in a broader sense through excise duties. And in such a situation, a new press opens up to strengthen public spending through increased taxation and employment, which shows that one of the forms of unemployment resolution was also increased employment in administration and public services. Although we have said that in this segment we will try to do a reduction or better said through the reform of the administration to ensure that only those most qualified, most needed etc. work in the administration. There is, of course, another question that also shows a very interesting trend in the economy's answer to this question, which is that the cost of living begins to rise and that the cost of living has a growth rate of 2.4% this year, which is more than we had the growth rate in the previous year, the cost of life. Now if that's what it is, then the conditions for establishing so-called. ...inflation. Gentlemen, this is a serious question that will not be stopped without an answer through economic growth and development and unfortunately this budget rebalance that we have I view as just some measure, it will not be able to resolve anything but an introduction to the budget rebalance that we will have to do in the 10th month to end all these things and the introduction to the 2005 budget debate. But this budget must actually be the result of the means to realise the macroeconomic and economic policies in this country that must bear growth and development. We do not have a perspective and we will not be in a situation in a few years we will be able to service public foreign debt, government debt, let alone bring growth and development and solve social problems, and we are and we have many social problems and economic problems that we are in today. 'Cause we're not gonna have a lot of room for sex anymore. You know, now that we've taken the budget from the county, municipalities and cities, the question is what will be the reaction or better said which makes it impossible to continue to be in debt so that we can have space to expand economic activity through this way of resolving our social issues of certain municipalities and cities. The question is, how long will they be able to keep quiet and put up with it? I would like to remind you that we have a completely unequal development of the country, that the differences between the counties of Vukovar-Srijemska, Brod-Posaviska or Požeška, Zadar or Split-Dalmatia compared to Zagreb are terribly large and in such a situation stop all linearly. Or reduce by 1/3 the possibility of borrowing on the basis of their assets. Apart from the budget law, which says up to 20% of its assets can be resolved and with this budget rebalance, 3% of total income is a very serious issue. No, from the point of view of the budget law, it is a form, but from the point of view of content, because it is another component where growth and development have been stopped where units of local units can be bearers of economic growth and, in fact, through this issue, to solve and open a whole series of issues involving employment and unemployment issues. Of course, the same question arises as to what will result in the political system of the budget, the budget rebalance, it will strengthen the country's centralisation rather than decentralisation it. And that's not good. It won't lead, it may be a short-term measure that can give some effect, but in the long term it can't produce a result. Therefore, I personally think that it should be quite different to approach this debate far, far better if we had received a macroeconomic projection of the government for the next three years with budget rebalancing, that trends that are very important could be seen. Because these are short-term measures to me that are trying to respond to, at the request of the current moment. There's nothing going on in the railroad. There is no development, no development project will be supported in the railways, but will be resolved by this injection of a billion and 200 million kuna in the railways is practically made possible by something else, that only the system can survive and that it can exist. And it certainly is not the growth or restructuring of neither the railways nor the growth in the development that the railways can carry or run through the employment of our metal industry, etc. And that's why I personally think it would be difficult to support this kind of budget rebalance, regardless of what I am fully aware of the situation in which it was found, our fellow representatives of the majority party. Because this is the first time we've discussed macroeconomic policy in a section that doesn't match the programme orientation of the party itself and the guarantees it has given in the elections to win. In this respect, they are in a fissure. I feel sorry for them, but not for them, but for all of us, because it's actually a question of the development of this country is a question of our future. Therefore, we must look for answers to that question all of us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17151	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative Kajo Bucan has the word.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17152	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, assistants, colleagues and colleagues. A lot has already been said, so here may be a brief exposure, just one brief review of the items of the amendments and addition of the State budget related to the Ministry of Health and Social Care. And the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia guarantees health care for all citizens, so we have also defined ourselves as a social health system that has a lot of financial difficulties in every country. In order for these difficulties to be as little as possible, it is necessary to know who, which finance, and especially what is provided for in this investment system, and especially in the situation that we have found. The situation in which there were two parallel systems, one accounting system, and the other actual system of cost records and the introduction of order were necessary. And these days, we've had our chance to see the headlines in the press. But the forecasts didn't come true that by quoting "Hebrang will get less money. That his ministry had been cut off." On the contrary, the government rebalanced the aforementioned ministry 118 million 357 thousand 440 kuna more. In section 100, Chapter 15 of the Croatian Health Insurance Office increased from 60 million kuna, i.e. respecting the obligation on the basis of a collective contract to pay a regress for the annual rest of the staff in the health care system. So an increase of 12.4 million kuna for the purchase of the highest quality polyo vaccine for children cca 330 thousand such doses, and an increase of 9.4 million kuna for fees for regular maternity leave, etc. And the biggest increase in head 0.6 for social care of 62 million 990 thousand kuna. An increase has been set for those most needed. I believe that in the future we will continue to be witnesses at the end of this year of orderly enforcement and refurbishing of equipment over the age of 8 years, carrying out preventive health checks, continuing to inform the health system for which the combined procurement has been made at the state level, and allowing for the purchase of much lower prices and significant savings, financial stabilisation is a health position, protection of patients' rights. For this reason, and for what I have heard from my colleagues in other sections and categories, I am joining anyone who will support the adoption of this budget rebalancing burdened with the weights of the transfer of single borrowing of predecessors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17153	Thank you very much. Replica, Ms. Representative Marija Lugaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17154	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. Replical colleagues are only correct about this debate when it comes to how the funds for the Ministry of Health and Social Care have been increased. It should be pointed out that most of the items relating to preventive programmes relating to young people and risk groups have been reduced. The implementation of the Law on the Restriction of the Use of Tobacco Products has been reduced, the funds for the "dethox" programme for drug treatment have been reduced, funds for education to secondary schools on HIV, i.e. AIDS, funds for preserving and improving the reproductive health of young people, reduced funds for the prevention of alcoholism in young people, reduced means for preventing early detection of breast cancer, reduced funds for...radication programmes in addicts, etc. So only correctness works when we talk about increases when it comes to saying that the reduced funds for these risk groups and preventive programmes, which I don't think is good, and that's one of the reasons why I can't support this rebalancing.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17155	Thank you very much. The answer to Mr. Kajo Bucan's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17156	I can agree with you. But in total, I was talking about a total increase. I was talking about a total increase, and I'm going to do it again. On the HZZO item 60 million kuna, respecting obligations based on a collective regress contract for annual holidays of 12.4 million kuna for the purchase of new polyo vaccines, 9.4 million kuna for regular maternity leave and an increase in social care item of 62 million 990 thousand kuna. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17157	Thank you very much. The word has Mrs. Jagoda Martic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17158	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. I would like, as well as my colleagues from HDZ, to be optimistic and to be able to say that I am looking forward to it, because in the end we all live in this country and I think it is in everyone's interest to be well, to be better for us, and for generations to come. Unfortunately, however, the budget rebalancing that is set before us today gives me no room for that optimism and for that joy, because from it, as it has already been said, there are some things that can be read. In fact, the budget rebalance clearly shows that the government is giving up the good part of its promises, and it is precisely those promises that are based on the designed economic policy, so it automatically raises doubts that we can claim that this government actually has no such programs. Since the promised VAT reduction as we can see, there is nothing, because not only has it been delayed as announced, but as shown by the government's document of the fiscal policy principle for the period 2005 to 2007, VAT will be counted at 22% in 2007. However, not only will VAT not be reduced but some taxes will also increase, such as that of 15.7., we have an increase in excise duties on cigarettes and cars. It is, therefore, clear from the government's argument that the government's goal is to reduce the deficit, but it is obvious that the government will not prevent tax burdens or business and neither will citizens. Tax reform is announced, and if we judge it by this, we can expect new tax burdens on citizens, reduction of tax incentives, etc. Economic growth does not exist without investment in education and science and economic recovery. The budget rebalance of the Ministry of Science and Education took 18 million kunas previously intended for scientific and research activities. So much for the promised investment in science and technology. There's no tax charge on the economy, and we still have a expensive non-competitive economy. Something about growing standards. The new budget envisioned more money for social expenses. These are primarily increased disability and family pensions of Croatian defenders, more money for additional maternity leave, then for the salaries of the budget users are also increased funds but this does not mean that these funds are intended to increase salaries or that they stem from collective agreements already resulting from the increase in the number of employees in the ministries, and let us remember that the government spoke very optimistically about government reform and therefore went into the merger of ministries in order to reduce the number of employees, however, this ultimately led to an increase in the number of ministry employees. However, all this numbered increases do not mean the rise of citizens' standards because, based on higher budget allocations, only the growth of standards to certain stakeholders and not to all citizens, only economic growth resulting from higher production and higher investment can provide a better standard for a wider circle of citizens. Unfortunately, this government has so far not shown that it has a clear economic vision of development. The revenue of the budget is not increased by the growth of the economy but by taking money from the economy and directing that money towards consumption rather than development. The expenditure is mainly on spending items such as salaries and social benefits. The government's lack of a clear vision of the country's development and that there is quite a discrepancy in the work of the government and individual ministries also show many execution items by 30.6.2004, according to the various zero kuna ministries. Therefore, it is more likely that the planned projects will not be able to be realised by the end of the year and I note that the budget was passed just over three months ago, so this is too short a period in which the budget changes are being made. I would also refer to some items of the Ministry of Health that are relatively small and insignificant, but that's where they're to be mentioned. The improvement of health care on islands is a small item of reduction by 3 million kuna anyway. Of which, medical and laboratory equipment is reduced by 2 million kuna and the execution for the first six months is zero. We all know what the situation on the islands is and how much we want people to return to the islands, but here is the basic elemental conditions of their lives that don't come true. I can't help but look again at the item of conservation and improvement of reproductive health of women from a minimum of 80,000 kuna has been reduced to only 20,000 kuna, then prevention and early detection of breast cancer has been reduced by 20,000 kuna. When I referred to these items in the budget, then Minister Hebrang said that preventive programmes are in primary health care. It is not disputed, it is clear to all of us but it is disputed that I am afraid that the primary health care of this budget has not received enough resources to implement some preventive programmes that were established by a contract signed last year between the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance, the Ministry of Health and the Croatian medical chambers, which relate precisely to reducing breast cancer, colon cancer, diseases related to hypertension and diabetes. The minister also said at the time that the first national programme of breast cancer prevention was adopted by which each county from decentralised funds would buy a mobile mammographer and doctors would volunteer to read these mammograms and, according to the minister, it was included in the government programme that would publish immediately after the budget was adopted. We've got a budget rebalance ahead of us. Since the announced renewal of the programme, there has been no word yet, but unfortunately the public has already learned that Minister Hebrang is speaking one thing in the evening and in the morning something quite different, so it seems to me that we are not actually taking his statements seriously anymore, which is worrying and sad if we bear in mind that it is still the Croatian Prime Minister and also the Deputy Prime Minister. Furthermore, the items for the prevention of alcoholism in young people are being reduced, which is what counterpart Lugaric noted. It is clear to all of us that alcoholism, with the consumption of all kinds of intoxicating drugs, is a monster that takes more and more wave amongst young people, so it is unacceptable for me to reduce the items or funds for the therapeutic communities for the detox treatment of addicts, etc. Then, reductions are provided for state monitoring of health testing of food and drinking water from a million and 700 thousand kuna to a million kuna and are reduced in the implementation of sanitary supervision in order to official control and for the permanent professional improvement of sanitary inspectors. We know how sensitive we all are and how much we all want a healthy, proper diet, healthy foods, and that's why somehow I'd say "stupid" in this area that I don't think it's a good thing if the small amount of interrogation comes down to even less. The implementation of control over the application of HASAP is a rebalancing item, so it is practically no longer envisaged to carry out surveillance and I would only point out that the introduction of HASAP which started in Croatia several years ago is very important to ensure, in fact, a final final product in one cycle of food production and distribution, and it would ultimately reduce all these items relating to food control. Therefore, prevention is spared because it is not good because it is the most expensive when prevention is not available. And here's my time, so in the end, that's all. Because of everything I've said, I can't support budget rebalancing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17159	Thank you very much. And finally, Agent Ivan Kolar.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17160	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary with an associate, ladies and gentlemen! Here let me tell you that while I've waited so long to say a few words because it's obviously hard for someone else to get those words to get through but one of the findings by listening to it all afternoon is certainly true that it's carried out by an election victory, meaning the ruling set after a while comes to sobering and as a result of that budget rebalancing. I know it's hard to predict the situation but already when it's taken over then it has to be realistic and start thinking about it. I will certainly speak, referring to the agricultural budget that I have criticised during the budget because it is such that in fact all these integration processes that are before us are actually stopped. Because it is easy to talk about external political entities that we are, that we should, however, have to, that the Minister of Agriculture and Minister of Finance of the Republic of Croatia is not only required, he must have this and do what. However, the budget does not guarantee that. In fact, I agree with the Minister of Finance and I am a participant of the general European environment where there is no active policy, state and where there is no consensus on European integration that this happiness is not particularly in the area of agriculture because agriculture must be one of the more difficult problems that this government or others must skip. This budget doesn't guarantee it. I feel free to say that we're stopping in fact all the restructuring processes, I'm talking about family households, I'm talking about companies, I'm talking about everything together because we're not making any progress in a single sense except to limit structural support, to limit the support of direct and indirect because there's no more money than was planned at the beginning of the year. As much as 40 million less. But in order for all these processes to last, it takes a special will and this is actually an appeal that the Government of the Republic of Croatia finally realizes that its active agriculture policy must be transparent as it likes to be said. And that means that the Minister of Agriculture can't run a single state policy unless he has autonomy in terms of providing him with funds and programme-oriented funds. I assure you this time however small the village is, however unprepared it is and now competitive and competitive it products. However, it needs a single injection, which needs to be constant, by building a European environment. Not only last year, not this year, but in the coming years, these are the funds that must be attached to the multifunctional nature of agriculture because agriculture as the very branch of self-enforcing binds a huge spectrum of other industries, small, large, processive, such as, and which ultimately solves another problem and this is the problem of space where we are already meeting with the devastation of space and in fact one by deposing the village, by leaving it to cities, and if it is not recognised by this government then clearly that it must be resented and said that such a programme and budget does not guarantee it, it is not possible to achieve it. It is impossible for the rural development of the Ministry of Agriculture to participate unless the funds are provided for it. It is impossible to encourage the restructuring of small family households if there are no funds in the budget. It is impossible to provide direct support if there are no directly secured funds. I agree that you need a treasurer, a state treasury of consciousness to make it easier to manage money but it's impossible to talk about the realisation of funds and not to place on those parts where you need to. Directly, production directly to a small farmer who must be able to be economically strong and economically similar to his competitor in Europe tomorrow. I claim that agrarian politics without perspective threatens the foundations of life. And it warns multiple, multiple times, and that's all for reasons because it can't understand the state that without agriculture you can't. Already, before me, someone mentioned enormously large imports must have increased in a way that is not stimulated, production is not thought about, but even more about falling. Agriculture first, first detects actually it is a seismographer of development that needs to be corrected, but it must only be corrected in this way if more funds are provided. I have to blame this government because it doesn't provide any more resources, it does not give any indication of how to go, in which direction it should go. In fact, the big projects that have been announced have no first letter, not to be realized. And if we responsibly admit to ourselves that we have actually promised the hills and the valleys or as our people say every fool has his own joy and I am now well-intentionedly saying that fools are peasants who have accepted such a promise without reason to insult anyone because it is purely one post-op, then they have to be hard to believe or to wait for these promises or hope without reason. I believe that this government or other that's coming, so I don't care who it is, it has to seriously stick to business if we want to and I hear there's a need for 2007. etc., story or better to say adapt to European legislation, ultimately be somehow similar or at least the same as Europe. Free trade, which is now imperative and where the free market is propagated without state intervention, agriculture certainly cannot. You're free to walk through Europe, walk around the world, and say that state intervention directly creates agricultural policy. The state funds are so strong that every government that does not meet those conditions that agricultural policy dictates. And so if we want to go to the state budget or be transparent about how it's said, let's secure funds to offer programs, adapt structurally small, large all those who today have a primary task to provide for the domestic needs of production. Maybe tomorrow, here it started in some sector and for export. What kind of exports without subsidies are difficult but with certain subsidies and so on. And that is why we should really tell our country our beautiful Croatia that all social and economic models in other parts of the world should be respected. And we have to have our own model. Our model must be an ecosocial standard because on these standards we have begun on the principles of Christian science without free trade and in agreement with the social political system, what democracy is the basis of this society and which would... between the free market, social justice and environmental responsibility. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I think we would then avoid such incidents as happened today in the Republic of Croatia if we had 2,000 hectares of GMO seeds, where we now need 2,000 hectares of corn to cancel and happiness if only those 2,000 hectares were not there hundreds of thousands of hectares and where we can hardly compensate for the funds to make up for the lost profits and what damage could result in possible... The ground can't even assume it now. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's why this is a public call to the state, to the government, to the Ministry of Agriculture in which and how to help. So I appeal, it is now more impossible because the Ministry's budget has been reduced, but I appeal for next year if we really want to be transparent then provide the means that allow Croatia's agriculture to prepare for eventual entry into the European Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17161	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. I would ask the representatives and MPs to amend the amendment to the amendment and addition of the State budget in accordance with Article 31 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The budget law will be filed by 12 o'clock tomorrow, most of the time. Some amendments have also been submitted to allow the government to have time to consider them and to consider them, and to be manifested on Thursday. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, members of the government, please take your seats. We're going to the vote. The first is the proposal to amend and supplement the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2004, the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute, the Croatian Employment Institute, the Proposal for an amendment and the addition of the State Budget and Budget expenditure plan and extra-financial funds for 2004, the Proposal for amending and supplementing the State Budget's revenue and expenditure plan and extra-financial funds for 2004. The debate is closed. I'd like a table of amendments that all MPs have. I ask respected MPs and MPs one peace and concentration in the vote and debate on amendments. We have the first amendments to the Government, so in accordance with Article 166 of the Parliament, it is necessary to declare whether it will accept a statement, a debate and a vote on the Government's amendments. Please, who's up for it? Thank you. Against? I find 77 votes to 21 against. According to Article 166(2), these amendments are being discussed and voted. Only representatives of the representatives' clubs can participate in the debate. I'm asking the Minister of Finance, Mr. Ivan Shucker, to explain the government's amendments. Amendment 1.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17163	Therefore, in the final proposal to amend and supplement the State budget of the Republic of Croatia in the general section beyond Article 1, the revenue and expenditure account shall be changed according to the expenditure changes made to the budget beneficiaries proposed in Amendment 3.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17164	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on Amendment 1 to the Government. Please, who's in? Thank you. Against? Restraint? I find that the amendment was accepted by 78 votes to 31 against and four abstentions. Amendment 3 to the Government.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17165	Thank you very much. The final proposal to amend and supplement the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2004, in the general section behind Article 2, changes business and non-financial assets. According to changes in expenditure and expenditure on budgetary users proposed in Amendment 3.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17166	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. Please, who's in favor of Amendment 2 to the Government? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? I find that with 78 votes to 33 against and four abstentions, Amendment 2 to the Government has been adopted. Amendment 3.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17167	Amendment 3 proposes that the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia raise expenditures by a million and 400 thousand and 614 kuna. At the same time, it is proposed to reduce so many budget reserves, and all other changes in other budget users are changes within the position.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17168	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. Please, who's in favor of Amendment 3 of the Government? Thank you. Against? Restraint? I find that with 83 votes in favour, 28 against and 5 abstentions of amendment 3 to the government has been adopted. Amendment 4.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17169	Amendment 4 to the final proposal amending and supplementing the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2004 in the final provisions of Article 5 is amended as follows: "The amendments and additions to the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2004 shall take effect on the day of publication in the "National Journals".
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17170	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing up. Who's in favor of Amendment 4 of the Government? Thank you. Against? Restraint? I find Amendment 4. Governments accepted by 112 votes for and four abstentions. Now let's get on the amendment table. I ask MPs and MPs to have her in front of them. 1st is the amendment of Honored Representative Dragica Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17171	The government does not accept because as the amendment has been set and proposed, we do not understand what the concept wants to achieve.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17172	Dear representative Zgrebec, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17173	I propose that all positions for official travel, intellectual services and personal services, representation and other unremarked operating expenditure be reduced because, despite the fact that the Government has rejected my amendment in the adoption of the budget itself in these paragraphs, certain adjustments have nevertheless been made, but they are still significantly deviating in terms of overall costs. Thus, compared to the execution in 2003, expenditure on official travel is still higher by 29%, intellectual and personal services by 39%, representation by 14% and other unremarked expenditures by 134%. Since certain expenditures are not included in the budget which should be covered because contracts with local self-government units have been signed, I suggest that certain reductions in those positions be made. Thank you. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17174	Please, who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you, he didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 2, also respected MPs, Dragica Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17175	Amendment 2 The Government does not accept for the reasons that the funds provided in 2004 are more than they were secured in 2003, and even more so when the execution was compared in 2003. Thus, 26 million were planned to build and equip border crossings towards Slovenia in 2003 and 17 million kuna was spent. And the 2004 plan is 28 million kuna. The plan of the transition to Hungary in 2003, spent 513 thousand kuna, a plan for 2000 million kuna. Therefore, given that it was implemented last year and also at the possibility of being executed by the end, we believe that these funds will be sufficient in the budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17176	Dear Representative Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17177	With these two amendments regarding the border crossing towards Slovenia, I suggest that the border crossing of the Police Centre, located right in the centre of the city, begin to be arranged, and actually creates huge problems for all who are passing through this city. Because there's actually a traffic collapse, especially in the summer months. The second refers to the border crossing towards Hungary and this in the area of Kotoriba municipality where there is a railway border crossing, and I suggest that a road crossing be built alongside it. The reason is that on the other hand there are several settlements in which Croats live, and their interest is to also connect with the country of origin. So, I suggest that these two border crossings are planned already this year so that they could eventually be solved, or built in 2005. In particular, because both countries have been members of the European Union since this year and further problems have been created in the communication of citizens of this part of Croatia with the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Hungary. I'm also asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17178	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you, he didn't get the necessary majority. 3rd Amendment of the HSS and SDP Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17179	The government does not accept because the funds are equal to those provided last year and higher on the funds implemented in 2003. According to the 2003 budget, 5 million 600 were planned, 5 million 559, and the 2000 plan is 5 million and 600 and the government cannot accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17180	Dear representative Ljubica Lalić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17181	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, Mr. Minister, you didn't say that these funds were related to the defense's financing against the fight. I repeat what I said in the budget. According to the Law on Defence against Fight, it is clearly defined from which items and from which funds the defence against the fight is financed. That's when it was so unthinkable that it was rejected. We've lost operational defense from the fight, and now we've proven what's proven. The fight has already done huge damages in Croatia that exceed the multiple amounts that should be used to defend against the fight. Since this government has a law that does not want to implement, we point out that there is a danger that all those who have suffered damage from the beating are suing the Republic of Croatia who did not provide defence against the fight. In this way, we would come into an even more unfavourable situation and this situation would be far more harmful for Croatia than to find funds to finance the defence against the fight. And as you can see, the amendment contains the positions we propose to remove from those positions to finance. Because if you don't know, I'll remind you, according to the Law of Defense against Fight, the fight defence system is also funded from the items of the Ministry of Finance from the funds that are intended to compensate for the damage caused by the elemental disasters. And this 5 million and 600 you've planned is not enough to remove the damage that's caused only from the fight, about the floods that I'm not even talking about. I don't know if there's any need to... And I point out, however, that those who suffered the damage from the natural disasters last year received 400 million kuna. [[The speaker is not on, you can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17182	Please, who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you, he didn't get the necessary majority. 4th Amendment of the Club of Representatives of libre.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17183	The government cannot accept for the simple reason because we cannot allow the reduction of Croatian shipbuilding funds for 110 million, and this is more so than even a trace of the discussions that were about the need to invest in the economy. Therefore, the proposal of the Club of Libre foresees that the reduction of funds to shipyards by 110 million and cannot be accepted by the Government.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17184	Dear Representative Pavlic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17185	Well, that's right. Definitely dissatisfied because we believe that these 5 million kunas intended for damages caused by elemental disasters will definitely be too little. [[Because of the announcement, the speaker does not understand.]] The more we think the damage this year will be much bigger than the previous years, the more we heard, the more the shipbuilding work is not working. For example, only in the 6th month of such a disaster in a few hours in Međimurje County and the surroundings of Čakovec in a fight, therefore, in which some 40 million kuna was damaged. So our view is that sooner or later the government will be in trouble and will have to go on its own to find compensation funds, i.e. to find funds to compensate for this. As for, therefore, the rehabilitation of the shipyard, it is our opinion that this can, therefore, be used in that way. I.e., both north and northwest Croatia as much as it achieves balance with some other parts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17186	Voting? Please, who's for this amendment number four? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment number five, Honorable Representative Dragica Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17187	Amendment No. 5 The Government cannot accept for a simple reason because after the proposal to take 10 million kuna from the Croatian economy, the next proposal goes towards taking away 100 million kunas from Croatian sciences and scientific research projects and when you connect them with each other, you can see in which direction these amendments go, so stopping both the economy and the sciences and the government simply cannot accept it.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17188	Dear Representative Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17189	I propose to increase compensation for damages caused by elemental disasters, and this is because the inefficient defence of the fight already took place in the first half of this year in the counties affected by the fighting, which are mainly the counties of northwestern Croatia and Slavonia, has caused huge damage to pljo-economic products, especially on the surfaces and on long-term plantations of over 100 million kuna. I propose such an increase to compensate at least partially for crop damage and long-term crops. It is incorrect to suggest that science and economy be taken because it proposes to reduce expenditure on official travel, for representation and other unremarked costs. I'm also looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17190	Please, who's in favor of this amendment? Thank you for not getting the necessary majority. Number 6 of MPs Mate Arlovic and Mate Gavran.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17191	The government cannot accept for the simple reason that the plan for 2003 at the position of the Government of the Republic of Croatia was 169 million, the execution was 10 million more than the plan, and the plan for 2004 was 157 million, so 20 million less than the government had in the last meeting, and now it's strange that this government could function with even less resources and the last one was not additionally what was planned but had to spend another 10 million more. That is why the government is refusing this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17192	The Honorable Vice-President Arlovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17193	Dear President, dear colleagues and colleagues. The fact was that it was planned and such was the execution of the budget title, but there were extraordinary funds for the elemental disasters of the last year that exceeded nearly 400 million and in such a situation it was quite clear that it was necessary, given the already present opportunities caused by the elemental storm storms, the crashes, etc., on crops and long-term crops, that these funds could not cover any near-covering damage that occurred but could at least mitigate those resources by making it more clear that there is also a stable responsibility of the state for such damages that occurred and, in particular, because of the activities of the Hydrometric Institute which issued the order not to use... missiles to prevent... and in such a situation, it is clear that additional resources should be allocated to people who have suffered, from Međimurje to Slavonia, from the Dalmatia and who have reached major storms on the rocks of the sea and ice.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17194	Who's for this amendment please? Thank you for not getting the necessary majority. 7th Representative Ljubica Lalić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17195	The government cannot accept this amendment for the simple reason that the intended funds for the 2004 team are almost identical to the intended funds in 2003 and then logically that last year's costs will be the same or, in the opinion of the MP, the government has been entitled to a larger team, so we cannot accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17196	Dear representative Ljubica Lalić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17197	I thank Mr. President, here we have exhausted the debate on the evidence of the damages caused in Croatia since the fight. When we were making the budget, it was said that it was not accepted and it did not support the defence against the fight that was allegedly opposed to some expert opinions. If that was not the case, the government proved at the last session, when during the half-time period when the battle of the Croatian Hara told the Croatian government that the pro-tourque defence against the fight was still functioning. The change in such a decision, with the lack of funding in the state budget for all potential citizens who will suffer damage, means nothing, because under the government's new concept, counter-war defence could not work until the 10th month it is gone. And as for the funds Mr. Minister, this public must know that the Government of the Republic of Croatia will drink and eat 30 million kuna, I thought and then and now I think that so many governments that should save should not eat and drink and that it is fairer to give to a citizen who suffers damage than to drink French cognacs, Scottish whiskeys etc.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17198	Who's for this amendment please? Thank you for not getting the necessary majority. 8th Amendment of Representative Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17199	The government cannot accept for the simple reason why funds from the economy are proposed to be directed towards consumption.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17200	He's a colleague of Mršić's.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17201	Well, when I discussed the budget then the minister and I disagreed on how much money was spent, the implementation of the budget for the first six months showed that 56.67% was spent for decentralised functions and that there will certainly be no funds for decentralised functions at 12 months. I have proposed here to increase these funds by 200 million so that units of local self-government that are now in a difficult situation do not reduce the possibility of borrowing can at least function in those decentralised functions that have been transferred, which is basic schooling, secondary schooling, health care and social care. And it certainly won't be possible in the 12th month, perhaps even in the 11th transfer from the state budget. If the item is to blame from which you should remove it I ask the Government to find an item from which it is more appropriate to remove it, but I assure you, then I convinced you that you are wrong and now you are wrong when you leave a billion and 50 million I don't think it will be enough for the needs of decentralised functions in local self-government units, especially from what we have and tax returns, so in the 11th month, the local self-government unit won't be able to finance what money needs to finance from the state budget. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17202	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you for not getting the necessary majority. 9th Amendment of MP Ljubica Lalic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17203	The government cannot accept for the simple reason that, with funds indirectly granted to local self-government units through the return of taxes made from the state budget, the total funds for the municipality of Gornji Bogičevci are 870,000 kuna, and last year it was 499 thousand kuna. So a total increase of nearly 370,000 kuna compared to last year and the government believes that with these funds increased compared to last year nearly 74% is sufficient for the municipality of Gornji Bogičevci.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17204	Representative Ljubica Lalić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17205	Well, Mr. Minister, I'm not happy with the explanation, I'd like to know, you know where the Upper Goddesses are. The Gornji Bogičevci are the first village to Okućana, an occupied area completely destroyed, which has no economy and has no sources of funding. To this area, however, the returnees have returned to God, but it is not enough just to sit in their homes in mine fields, of course these municipalities need funds, and for that I have just suggested that the funds be removed from the position of the national team, but also with the removal of those funds still remains 29 million kunas for food, for drink, so at least at that small amount, say, here in the Upper Goddess let them make themselves there, do not laugh, it is not funny for me because I am there every day, and I call you as last time to come and see and we will be there together, so that you will see what tragedy of this people then you will be very happy to give up something so that you can afford a minimum of joy, if not even these funds mean joy for them... There's no need to explain to Mr. Secretary it's funny, but that's why I'm asking for a vote. [[speaks off, can't be heard]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17206	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you, he didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment of the 10th MP also Ljubice Lalic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17207	Amendment 10. In order not to turn out again if the government doesn't have a feeling I will repeat and the ministers will laugh at the proposals, I will repeat what I said about the Upper Goddess as well. This sensitivity was to be demonstrated last year, this year's funds were secured compared to last year's 32% higher. So I repeat for the Municipality of Gornji Bogovci 74%, for Old Gradiška 32% higher than in 2003.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17208	Dear representative Ljubica Lalić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17209	Mr. President, I cannot be satisfied with the explanation, because all this is said for Gornji Bogičevci even in the worse situation of the Municipality of Stara Gradiška, which is the youngest municipality in the age structure of the population. And I mean with this kind of atmosphere, Mr. President, not only when the Minister of Finance is laughing at someone else's tragedy, even when Minister Cobankovic, who is from these areas, can't, then he can't be anything else, but I am left without reason with the conclusion that we prefer to stay at the house and drink and ask for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17210	I don't see anyone laughing. And Stara Gradiška. Who's up for that amendment? Thanks, he didn't get enough votes. Amendment 11 of MPs also Ljubice Lalic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17211	The amendment cannot be accepted by the government because it believes the proposed funds are sufficient.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17212	Representative Ljubica Lalić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17213	The amendment concerns Krapina-Zagorska County. Krapina-Zagorska County is focusing its budget on promoting the economy. Following the fact that it is participating the economy to raise the standard of its citizens, of course it cannot participate in building infrastructure that is also necessary. And that's why it's the amendment. If we want to help poorer ends, then we can help them in exactly the way we suggested. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17214	Please. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you, he didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 12. Also representing Ljubica Lalic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17215	The government cannot accept it, because when I add up all the positions, all the proposals Mrs. Lalic has proposed to reduce from the position of the team, then it turns out that the entire team is even more than the government has in the position of the team would be spent. So the sum of all positions just doesn't match this total position that's required. And he would also like to say that the Brod-Posavia County has also received funds from compared to what the resolution ministries believe will be enough by the end of the year.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17216	Representative Ljubica Lalić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17217	Thank you, Mr. President. So as for the resources with the team, I wasn't optimistic at all that you'd give them up, and I didn't think you'd accept any amendment that made me and I had the courage to attach to that item. This amendment concerns the County of Brod-Posavisk. Last year, the County of Brod-Posaviska received 9.5 million kuna from the state budget. This year 4 million 533 thousand kuna. The County of Brodo-Posaviska according to official statistics is today in Croatia the county with the worst standard. If we don't want to help the county and regions that are borderline and where the function of leaving the population huge precisely because of the poor quality of life, then it's a great honor for this government. Especially when it protects the item from which I suggest that the funds be removed. Mr. President, I would like to ask you to vote, and I am convinced that this amendment will be voted by representatives of all who are from Brod-Posavina County, regardless of the political party they belong to.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17218	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 13 to MP Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17219	The government cannot accept for a reason, which was 169 million in the government's position on the 2003 plan. The 2003 budget made 178 million, so 9 million more than planned. And the 2004 plan is 157 million. So 20 million less than the last government spent in the last term. So we think that this position, in this position, there is no possibility of a reduction, because if the last government needed 9 million more than the plan, then I guess this government can provide 20 million less than the last government spent.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17220	Honored representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17221	You see, Mr. Minister, given the government's relationship with the local self-government units, then this economic relationship is not surprising either. During the former government when the prime minister was Mr. Ivica Racan and the mayor of Zadarski, Mr. Shime Prtenjac of HDZ, four times more was provided for the assistance of Zadar County which is really necessary and the means are necessary to ensure a further decentralisation process, as municipalities in the area are very poor. And here you see, today... It changed because it is no longer the prime minister of the SDP, but the HDZ, so it is now four times less authorised. [[speaks off, can't be heard]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17222	Who's in favour of this amendment? Please, peace. Thank you, he didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment of the 14th Honored Representative, Marija Lugaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17223	The government does not accept the amendment, as the budget's resources are sufficient to realise all the activities.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17224	Dear representative Marija Lugaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17225	Dear Secretary of State, I don't know what's enough, which isn't. But I know, however, that this government, in spite of the declared views in this rebalancing, is reducing the amount to improve the quality of family life and the development of family services, which is obviously in the trend in this Ministry of the Family, since all the projects that are started and related to families, related to young children, are not being implemented, so I am not surprised at all. In the same amendment, I suggested that these 100,000 kunas, for which the amount is reduced, be removed from the equipment of the ministry. I cannot believe that it is important for you to equip your ministry, but to invest in improving family life and the development of family services, and here we are in the Croatian Assembly when we talk about births, about fees, just everyone pointed out that this issue of improving family services is extremely important. I therefore ask the vote and hope that all MPs in the Croatian Parliament will do as they said when we talked about a package of family laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17226	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you, he didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 15. Also representing Maria Lugaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17227	Neither does this amendment nor does the Government accept for the same reasons, this kind of budget rebalancing means, after further analysis, are quite enough to carry out the activities.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17228	Representative Marija Lugarić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17229	It should be said that this amendment, i.e. By proposing budget rebalancing, you reduce money to prevent behavioural disturbances of children and young people. I want those funds to be at least as much as you suggested in this budget for 2004 because they were even bigger in 2003 and that it would be enough to surprise me. This means that you will not implement your own programme to combat violence between children and young people. I therefore ask all MPs not to allow a million kunas in this budget to reduce the means to prevent risky behaviour between children and young people and to ask for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17230	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment of the 16th Representative of Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17231	The government does not accept this amendment because the planned funds this year are planned on the basis of an earlier-term contract and will be quite sufficient to carry out all the activities.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17232	Representative Mršić, go ahead!
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17233	Well, Madam Secretary of State, I'm afraid you didn't understand my amendment. I wrote here that there are 600 families in Vukovar who are located in apartments where they are entitled to rent that have no paper with the basis of which they would be in those apartments. So the state has not fulfilled its obligation to allow them to be inside. They live in unrenewed apartments, and the city's company sent them accounts of 3,000,400 kuna for the funds of reserves to maintain these apartments. These dwellings from 97th to today for when bills have not been sent, have not been restored and are now being prosecuted against these citizens. I ask you to find the funds of 3 thousand 400 kuna for each of these families and enable them or otherwise solve them, not to be forced to charge rents for apartments, so that they are not maintained, which are not restored and where the tenants do not have a valid document to be in those apartments because the state has not issued solutions. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17234	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Let's go to the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship, State Secretary Vera Babic. Amendment 17 by Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17235	Mr. President, the government does not accept Amendment 17. We believe that the proposal deserves a much more complex project approach to this business school issue, and in addition, intervention is proposed in relation to aggregate costs rather than in line. So he doesn't accept the government.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17236	Representative Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17237	Well, the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Croatian Employers' Association signed an agreement that a business school will be built in Kumrovec and for this purpose the Government has committed to provide 25 million kuna from the state budget in order to adapt the facility owned by the state and after that the Croatian Employers' Association has concluded a employment relationship and organises a business school there. I do not want to warn how much the need for business education in Croatia is that we do not have an elite business school and that it has been expected for the Croatian Employers' Association to do so. Maybe it should be from another item, but I'd be glad to have that project started this year, too, because project documentation needs to be developed. It may not take 5 million kunas, but surely the Ministry of Economy could assume the obligation to make this year's project documentation for the adaptation of that business school, so I will request a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17238	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 18. SDP and HSS representatives' club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17239	Mr. President, the government does not accept this amendment. With regard to the Institute of Social Pensions, the Government has had the opportunity to express its view on the incompleteness of the proposal. The intervention, as with the previous amendment, is also proposed again in terms of aggregate costs rather than individual items.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17240	Dear representative Milanka Opačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17241	Well, Mrs. Babic, it really has nothing to do with the law. If you have social sensitivity and political will in the government, then you can pass a much better and better-quality law than we, as advocates in this assembly, have suggested. I think this is about a very endangered social category, about 65,000 people who are hard to live, who are literally somewhere on the verge of hunger, and we wanted to show this amendment that intellectual and personal services can be removed from the position of intellectual and personal services and that they can find funds in the state budget and that they can help this category that lives somewhere on the edge of hunger and we are looking for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17242	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Ministry of Culture, State Secretary Jadran Antolovic. Amendment of 19th Honored Representative Ljubica Lalić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17243	The Government does not accept this amendment, given that the funds for works on cultural monuments are granted on the basis of a public call and with applications which are also objectively documented.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17244	Dear representative Ljubica Lalić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17245	That I know the state's attorneys that the funds are granted on the basis of the tenders. Secretary of State, I'm sorry, I know they're being awarded on the basis of the contest, and one and the other parish has applied for the competition. Both works began in one parish and the other. Here, unlike this government, the government passed, which was shown in public this way that there was no feeling for the religious needs of its citizens, so the government provided funds for both projects. On one project and on another, the works are started and religious service cannot behave, and the works are not completed and the facilities are in such a state that worship cannot be done. Since the composition of the parliamentary majority today is very different, all of the ranks are highly sensitive to the religious needs of their citizens, I expect the majority to support this amendment and therefore ask for a vote. Not even Maria. Well, Maria, you were the one who proposed that amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17246	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. Please, ladies and gentlemen. He didn't get enough votes. Amendment of the 20th Representative Đurđe Adlesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17247	The government does not accept this amendment, given that the funds at the investment position are allocated but contractually and cannot be reduced.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17248	Deputy Vice-President Djurdja Adlesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17249	Mr. President, I'm not gonna pollute with the secretary of state and his knowledge of the problem I've been writing about here. This project is needed by the city, promised by Minister Bishop and I believe in his word. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17250	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment 21 also honours Vice-President Djurdja Adlesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17251	He is related to the previous amendment and the government does not accept it either.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17252	Amendment withdrawn 21. Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy, Minister Cobankovic. Amendment 22. Honored representative Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17253	The government doesn't accept the amendment. The reduction in the amount of the pay item for regular work has already been reduced by the draft rebalancing of this budget and is reduced to the necessary level that allows the ministry to work uninterrupted.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17254	Representative Mršić, go ahead!
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17255	Well, I might agree with what you said was a cut from the wrong item, but when you defended the budget, then you rejected this amendment by saying there was no building permit. There is now a building permit, there is a four-year plan to build a state-of-the-art water pipeline from Petrican, via Nin, Privlaka to Vira, which will first and foremost develop medical tourism in Nin and ensure the urbanisation of Vira. And if the wrong item I ask you to support this project from some other items that will certainly not be realised during this year because there will be no adequate project documentation. But please support Croatian waters and through the Ministry, so this year we start to build water and sewerage from... to Nina, Vir and Privlaki. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you. I give up.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17256	Amendment 22 withdrawn. Amendment 23. Club of Representatives of LIBRA
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17257	The government cannot accept this amendment. The increase of the amount at the position of the Institute for Fruiting is not acceptable since the planned funds are in line with the Institute's 2004 work plan.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17258	Honorable representative Jozo Radosh.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17259	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, for the next few years, Croatia should plant about 50,000 acres of orchards and olive groves to be competitive after we enter the European Union because after entering it will no longer be possible. It is a strategic business that not only speaks about the structure of agriculture, but in fact the structure of the Croatian economy, it is a very important issue and I do not think such bureaucratic arguments are acceptable. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17260	Please, who's in favor of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 24. also of the Club of Representatives of libre.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17261	The government doesn't accept the amendment and the means to raise... This appropriation is intended to cover: [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17262	Honorable representative Jozo Radosh.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17263	Therefore, it is the same reason that Croatia should plant at least 10 thousand hectares of vineyards in the next 3 to 4 years. Of course with quality certified seedlings and sure that the Institute of Fruit and Vineyards in this sense has something to do probably more than the envisaged plan. I hope that what Mr. Minister said will indeed be so that with other means, other items will be sufficient funds but certainly would not harm if this institution, which is also being given increased funding because I repeat myself, is again a strategic restructuring of Croatian agriculture. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17264	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 25. The club's representatives of HSS and SDP.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17265	The government does not accept this amendment because the increase in the position of promoting agricultural production and intervention on the market is not in line with the already established redistribution of funds within the budget of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17266	Dear Representative Bozidar Pankretic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17267	Thank you very much. So here's the minister's explanation, as far as I understand that something is not well divided, I think that's the least of the problems to redistribute differently. However, we think that this item, a basic item in which we can speak, is that we can in a certain way protect domestic production from highly subsidized agricultural production in other countries. We are all aware that without domestic support and this item is almost 80 percent of the total budget of the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry and the water economy is impossible to talk about the protection of domestic production. We were all witnesses, I'd say a bit of a quick signing of Protocol 7 but then we were saying, it's not funny, Mr. Minister, you said then that the budget rebalancing will make sure that the support is up domestically. We're not looking for a huge sum here. We're looking for one that could help this moment in some way. We think it's reasonable and you're aware that this won't make it for wheat this year 1650 kuna, but it'll be 900 or 1000 kuna, for corn maybe even less, 800 or 600. I therefore think that this item has very clearly tried to help support and protect domestic production in this way be more competitive in the part where we have and imports and we all know what it is. Thank you. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17268	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 26th Honored Representative Ljubica Lalic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17269	The government does not accept this amendment. The resources to promote crop insurance are already foreseen within the position of promoting agricultural production and intervention on the market.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17270	Dear representative Ljubica Lalić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17271	I know, Mr. Minister, that the funds are provided, but those funds are insufficient for the next reason. As a result, under the Defence Act, these funds are financed by the defence against the fight as a percentage. I don't need to prove to you what the damage to the fight means, but last time I warned you of all the evil and responsibility that stems from the failure of the defense against the fight and the simultaneous existence of the law that binds you to that defense against the fight. And when I told Minister Shuker that everyone who has suffered damage has the right to compensation and damage by court. Then now I'm going to tell you well-meaningly more. Not only do Croatian courts decide if they can be politically affected, there is also the European Court of Justice. And now we don't accept it, and now I'm going to take a message to my Slavs. That I tell Slavonci that the Slavonac minister will not give up his drink or drink and will not reduce that item and will not provide, will not provide, colleagues, will not, will not provide the means to defend the fights. I don't know if it's your will, I honestly don't believe it, I honestly don't believe it's your will, but Mr. Minister, when the government has changed its decision, and when it's over. When it has been determined that it is still carrying out an operational defence against the fight that needs to be financed, I do not know from which funds it is because there is no such funds in the budget. That is why we have proposed this amendment and I demand a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17272	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 27. HSS and SDP Representatives' Club
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17273	The government does not accept this amendment. The increase in income support positions for non-member farmers is not necessary in view of known commitments. All requests have already been received. And we have enough resources.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17274	Dear Representative Ivan Kolar.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17275	The Honorable Mr. President and Mr. Minister's relationship with agriculture reflects how much money is invested in it. Obviously, all the efforts and assurances that agriculture is a locomotive that drags and other branches of deforestation are not accepted. In principle, I don't believe what you said. Otherwise the second one was introduced you know the income support where the applications follow, where there is likely to be surprises both for you and for us because the promises were too great. We said it wasn't good to promise, not to provide funds, and this insecureness would cost you and us really one debacle that the village wouldn't trust us anymore. They're not going to believe it because we're treating peasants as volunteers, we're acting irresponsiblely, and what you're saying is that they're all reported, that they're reported but they don't exercise their rights, and we need to admit it because they didn't get involved in time, you know, a new re-application. However, such... I don't think it's gonna work anymore, that people will realize that they're not gonna die with a peasant. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Once the right is granted, it must be his right to be consumed, not to be called 10 times, and that he must report to anyone who does, to be born again every year. That's why I'm saying that the funds don't have enough and it would be fair to admit it and secure the rebalancing so that all obligations can be fulfilled. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17276	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 28. HSS and SDP representatives' club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17277	The Government does not accept this amendment for the reason that this position has been increased multiplely compared to the previous year based on the requirements and the processed requirements and the aid paid. I am free to say that all the requirements that meet the criteria will achieve investment support in this year and that therefore these funds are sufficient.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17278	Dear Representative Bozidar Pankretic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17279	Investment support was introduced last year and has shown extremely good results. Most of it's been paid this year. And you, Mr. Minister, are aware that without investments in agriculture, there is no way. According to this assessment, since it was accepted by agricultural producers, given that they get 25% of the grant goes extremely well. And it should never be satisfied in that part that maybe they haven't heard from them now, but they need to be educated to get back to them as soon as possible. And these 50 million kunas are only going towards that part that we invest as much in agriculture as we can because you're as well aware as anyone who sits here. We are running out of time for investment, and only with investment can we be competitive in what is expected in the market. I don't think that's questionable and we all know that. I'm sorry you didn't manage to make it bigger. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17280	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 29th Amendment of the Club of Representatives of HSS and SDP.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17281	The government does not accept this amendment because there is no need to increase this item because this government is leading a transparent policy and will not waste funds on the so-called. wheat purchase models than these funds will be used for real purposes.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17282	Dear Representative Ivan Kolar.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17283	Well, I wouldn't be so convinced how confident the minister is, because his autonomy is clearly apparent that he didn't fight for more of the State budget than for less. And as soon as you're down, it means so much to you and to me. Otherwise, if he was stronger, he'd have more resources. But something else needs to be said. And seriously imagine. We are approaching, we have become some kind of, we have met the conditions for approaching the European Union. We need funds for unlimited amounts. Structural change doesn't mean what you're saying. Because you've already spent, remember, interventions on the pig market, intervention buyouts and so forth. I ask you what happens by chance, and in an hour 200 thousand tons of wheat that you have to, you have to, remember well, if not more, subsidize. Then the Minister of Finance must be a favor to you and say, "Let's spend our reserves." That's why if we were objective now and we understood the situation, I think we'd accept and fight. This smile of yours, Mr. Minister, means only one thing to us, but I wouldn't comment, and let it stay for you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17284	Fellow MPs, what should a minister be when he explains the amendment's eclipse? Why, why, is anyone else complaining? Don't keep it that way, don't do it that way. Don't judge the ministers that way if there's nothing in his portfolio that's then a mark of his price in the government. We also know the various ministers in various governments, and it is not correct to speak in this way. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't make it.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17285	There's no reason for me to move.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17286	Amendment 30. From the HSS and SDP Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17287	The government does not accept this amendment and I am surprised by the complete ignorance of the situation of those who propose this amendment for a reason. These funds that are provided here are the funds we pay for the construction of the refrigerator from last year. For this year, the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy has secured 10 million kunas from investment support positions and has opened a tender for those who raise a freezer with a controlled climate investment support of up to 2 and a half million kuna. A significantly higher amount of funding than was proposed in this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17288	Dear Representative Bozidar Pankretic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17289	I see the minister is mortally serious, but I won't laugh. I must say, without further ado. Can I finish? [[The intruders don't understand.]] After adding those that were just a moment ago, I'm just commenting. I must say that... /The speaker has been excluded if this part of which the minister is talking about is related to investments related to refrigerators, “lo” refrigerators where we had an extremely high interest in last year, but unfortunately because of the lack of funds it is not implemented and if in this year the competition is called and if the coolants in Virovitica-Podravska County will be built, in Sisak-Moslavina County all these documents and all these requests have been submitted to the Ministry since last year. I, along with that promise, Mr. Minister. I'm withdrawing the amendments. [[Intruder: Thanks to you they are not paid.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17290	Amendment 30 is withdrawn. Amendment 31 also comes from HSS and SDP representatives' clubs.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17291	The government does not accept this amendment for a simple reason because the funds in this position amounting to 7 million kuna and 100 thousand kuna are quite enough for the implementation of the Council's research programme in agriculture, and I would also stress that the circus, between them, is 40% higher than the funds in the budget last year.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17292	Dear Representative Bozidar Pankretic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17293	So the funds allocated to this item are certainly never too large because we need to know that the Research Council has given a lot of projects in its operation and I think that part of the education required is certainly not enough and we think that we should continue to support the Council for Agriculture Research in that part to finance, in a certain way, such projects that are of course contributing to the involvement of scientists, but in direct application in agriculture. You know that we have received the most direct commendation of the World Bank with which we started these projects, so I believe we will continue them without the World Bank but in an increased amount of voting.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17294	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 32nd also from HSS and SDP representatives clubs.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17295	The government also cannot accept this amendment for a simple reason because the funds provided for in this position are quite sufficient and planned for 2004.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17296	Dear Representative Kolar.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17297	Well, Mr. Minister, we were just going to step up our position in the establishment for reasons that have existed for a long time and haven't been realised. Namely, becoming a participant of the Economic Social Council or better to say, the Ministry of the Now Economic Chamber to the Ministry of Mrs. Abby peasants could actually be active participants in the adoption of various proposals, the law ended and the work of creating a agricultural policy, I think it would speed up the process. Otherwise, it's a problem that's retreating I know it's not today, and it would be good if you'd come out to meet us to secure larger funds, faster to armify it. Clearly, in a more transparent way, the participation of peasants in the active participation of peasants would be expressed. However, that sufficient resources are we estimate that it is only a small beginning that will not be moved from the dead point of this debate and actually the active participation of peasants in the creation of a agricultural policy. But apparently it's the fate of the peasants, with this government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17298	The vote. Who's in favour of this amendment? He didn't get enough. Amendment 33, also from the clubs of SSS and SDP consignors.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17299	The government does not accept this amendment. For the reasons that these funds will be sufficient to carry out the activities foreseen by the 2004 plan and programme.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17300	Honorable representative of Ante Markov.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17301	Thank you very much, Mr. President, for the fact that Croatia belongs to the consumption of fish with only 8kg per capita in the country where it is the lowest. And it gives complete impreciseness in the context of the possibility that Croatia has raises the question that, with the quality of the means to work, these are fishing boats. The accompanying industry remains the most important, uncovered subject, that's the market. The fish market in Croatia is unfortunately insufficiently arranged and it is clear that all the efforts that go in this regard should be supported. We have held that this amendment is exactly what we want on this trail, and also on the trail of that policy that the government itself has suggested in the last few months, and we regret that this amendment cannot be accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17302	Did you pull it or what? Who's in favour of that amendment. Thank you for not getting the necessary majority. Amendment 34 also comes from the HSS and SDP clubs.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17303	The government does not accept this amendment, this is an example of rationality and rational policy-making. These funds will be sufficient for all activities that the food agency will have in its formation during this year and will satisfy all needs.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17304	Honored representative Bozidar Pankretic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17305	Then I can agree with Mr. Minister that it's rational for the budget. However, I certainly cannot agree that this is rational in terms of the needs of Mr. Minister of the Food Agency. The food agency shall include an analysis of the health risk of food and feed. You know what cases we've had around GMOs and you know I don't need to explain it further, which should have been done and done about it. I don't know why the minister is turning his back on me right now. This is a new thing. I think so. I can only finish the president.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17306	Well, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17307	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So I think it's not enough just to determine the Agency's headquarters, but really that agency has to function. To function, Mr. Minister, it takes more money. The agency has.../the speaker has disfellowshipped itself/...and would surely support this proposal because without such an agency in the part of adapting everything that awaits us in the European Union is impossible without the institutions that we are also proposing here. So I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17308	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you very much. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment of 35 teams of representatives of HSS and SDP.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17309	The government does not accept this amendment and these budgeted funds will be sufficient to implement the 2004 plan.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17310	Honorable representative of Ante Markov.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17311	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary. So I think we all agree that the issue of boat construction is not only an obligation but it's a program of almost every government but in the conflict of our needs and needs and necessary to adapt to market relations, but also to adapt to what we expect and what we thought would start this year, which is an ecological fishing zone, it is necessary to invest additional resources in the burning of the fishing fleet. here when the truth is also about the means to co-finance and encourage the construction of ships. But since the minister says this will be enough for this very important activity, and given the fact that it has been repeatedly repeated to encourage the burning of these ships, I especially appeal to wooden vessels that must have their place in the fishing industry. I withdraw this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17312	Thank you very much. Amandam 35 withdrawn. Amendment 36 also includes representatives of HSS and SDP.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17313	The government does not accept this amendment, because the funds provided for in this item will be quite sufficient to carry out the planned activities this year.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17314	The Honorable Representative, Jeljo Pecek.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17315	Thank you very much. I'm surprised that for a national irrigation project presented in front of Valda Republic, there will be enough 10 million kunas after the rebalancing. Ministers don't seem convincing to me. Obviously last year we had 400 million kuna damage from the drought. 1% of the damages you made last year for irrigation projects. We have comparative advantages we have land, we have water, but what we don't have is a willingness to exploit those potentials in our Slavonia. Of course, I can't be very pleased with the fact that here you have counties, cities and municipalities that want to invest in these projects. And you're unsatisfactory enough to develop the project. That's why I'm asking for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17316	Who's up for this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 37 of the same clubs.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17317	The government does not accept this amendment, for a simple reason, because the funds provided for in the position of land regulation will be sufficient to implement the 2004 programme and plan.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17318	Dear Representative Bozidar Pankretic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17319	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, we're increasing this item by four million kunas for reasons that we all know that for almost decades now nothing has been done more significantly on land planning. There were no commissions, dives, merlioration, and I think anyone who's more serious about agriculture knows that without such procedures it's not possible to get into more serious or reform, but not a total change. I know this is about three pilot projects we're working with the Swedish government, but I believe that in the face of these pilot projects, it's possible to enter into a certain realization this year. Therefore, land as a basic resource in a farm, we must try to arrange in places where we still have a chance to cultivate it and of course bring it to purpose. That's why I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17320	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 38 distinguished MPs, Ljubica Lalić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17321	The government does not accept this amendment for reasons of limited resources and cannot satisfy this amendment according to the proposed allocation.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17322	Dear representative Ljubica Lalić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17323	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, Mr. Minister, this amendment I have proposed for the reason that this million and a half kuna is necessary for the installation of a purifier on the Lužani water supply site. Lužani water supplying drinking water or should be supplied with drinking water to the entire Oriovac municipality. The entire Oriovac municipality is a nephropathic area, nephropathy is an incurable coating from which patients die today. Sometimes it was assumed that he even wanted to declare himself an epidemic. The cause of this disease has never been found, however, there is an assumption that until today it has not been officially denied that the cause of these diseases is water, the cause of these water diseases and, based on that, 30 years ago, this municipality from the health ministry's funds received water and wells were buried as the source of death. Today in that waterhole, not that we don't have quality water, but we have water that we can't even use for drinking cattle, it's water that paints something a little brighter than Coca-Cola. I wouldn't want it to be a true assumption, but right now, the bus that drives patients to haemodialysis is getting fuller and fuller. I don't want it to be true that it's because we can't get out of this item that I'm proposing to take down a million-and-a-half kuna and install a purifier and thus six thousand residents as much as possible to protect at least psychologically that they won't die of nephropathy that is... [[You can't hear the phone.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17324	The microphone of a colleague. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 38 also respected representative Ljubica Lalić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17325	The Government cannot accept this amendment for reasons of available and limited resources.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17326	Dear representative Ljubica Lalić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17327	Well, after that argument and the encounter of complete misunderstanding, I found it difficult to expect this amendment to be accepted, but Mr. Minister, this amendment refers to the water supply system of the entire Eastern Slavonia. This project is worth 671 million kuna in seven years. What is foreseen in this budget 6 million kuna is completely insufficient and if we bear in mind that this is a region that is mostly with Sava and your Danube President, Mr. Minister, if we do not increase these items and provide at least 60 million kuna of this project will not be in seven years but in the next 100 years nothing. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17328	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 40 amendments to the respected representative, Zvonimir Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17329	The government does not accept this amendment. The increase in the water supply and construction position of the water supply system is not acceptable since the resources available are in line with the 2004 plan.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17330	Honorable representativeplatimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17331	I didn't hear right. Accepts?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17332	He doesn't accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17333	I already thought, because when you ministers and prime minister were in Koprivnica, then you said you would support all the projects the Koprivnica-Kristevnica County will propose, and then we warned you that Koprivnica-Kristevnica County, the county with the lowest level of availability of the public water supply system, only 27% of the population can be joined. This year's plan is county somewhere around 67 million kuna to invest and it will indeed be impossible to achieve the plan if the state will not return at least some of the money it collects annually from the base of the water supply, it is in the county area of more than 20 million kuna. I ask you to support this amendment and to support that the inhabitants of the Koprivnica-Kristevina County can join the water supply to stay in rural areas and to allow them to grow agricultural production, and I believe this amendment will be supported by the county council, which supported this project in the county assembly. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17334	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 41 to MP Dragica Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17335	The government does not accept this amendment. The project is being monitored with the amount of funds possible after redistribution with other projects monitored by the ministry.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17336	Here you go, Mrs. Zrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17337	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary. I just can't believe you refused this amendment. It refers to the sewerage of three settlements, namely the settlement Nedeliste, Matčevec and Savska Ves. I will again, at the end of this vote, give you agreements on co-financing of these papers. The contracts were signed in 2002 and 2003. According to them, payments have been made for two years, in a way that 50% co-finances investors who are our municipal enterprise of the County of Međimurje Water, 25% of Croatian water and 25% of the budget. You instead of 2 million and 500 as much as agreed for the settlement Nedelisce co-finance a million and 500 from the budget, for the other two projects zero, and I say once again signed contracts that are not executed from the budget. What kind of message is that to our citizens? That the state doesn't pay its dues. I ask you nicely to accept this amendment in the vote, however, because this will make it clear that the rule of law is working.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17338	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 42 representatives of Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17339	The government does not accept this amendment. The changes in the position of capital aid to banks and other financial institutions are not acceptable in view of the already planned activities.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17340	Dear Representative Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17341	Dear Minister, I'm not asking for money with this amendment, I'm just asking because the realization of this item was zero in the first six months, I'm just asking to say where this stabilisation of the right bank of the Dravi River is to refer to the Koprivnica-Crying County. So I'm not asking for money at all. I'm just asking that, you said when you're making a budget that this applies to our county and now just write down that it's Koprivnica-Crysing County because if you haven't used a kuna in the first six months maybe you don't even know where it is. I now if you write it down, if you write the Koprivnica-Kristevnica County nothing changes, because anyway in Ferdinand, these works need to start because the Drava River yells at the coast and crashes. So it's just a saying, not money. Your argument that you cannot accept the amendment because the money is not here
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17342	I didn't say I wasn't taking it for money.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17343	No, no, but, well, I didn't, I didn't ask for a change in the item at all, I just said to write the Koprivnica-Crysing County, and if you don't write it, you won't use the item. I mean, it would be a shame if in Ferdinand, the Drava River moved 500 meters into the field without using the item because we wouldn't know where to find the right bank of the Drava. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17344	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 43rd Amendment of Honored Representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17345	The government doesn't accept the amendment. The introduction of a new position is not acceptable given the already planned activities.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17346	Honored representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17347	Here's the deal, Mr. Secretary. In 2003, a joint financing agreement was concluded on the construction of a water and sewerage system of the settlement Vir, which was found to be provided by the ministry of 9 million kuna, Croatian Waters also 9 and the general source of 5 million kuna. This amendment was rejected when the budget was adopted in 2004, but at that time your argument was that it was because it was not, that no property-legislative relations were arranged, that the project had no building permit. As all of this has now been obtained, so there is complete project documentation, property-legal relations have been arranged, and colleague Zgrebec has already warned you, Mr. Minister,... Contracts and agreements should be respected. [[The speech room speaks Latin, not understood.]] As we ask our citizens to do so, we also ask the Minister, our Government. So, I think this argument really, as the people would say, does not drink water.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17348	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the votes he needed. 44th is the Club's representative of HSS and SDP.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17349	It's unacceptable. The government does not accept this amendment. Here after the shooting and after the plan for this year's activities, and that is, I repeat again, so that there will be no chasing again. For this year, a master irrigation plan is scheduled to be developed. According to recorded situations, this amount will be quite sufficient and this amount will also help to co-finance the production and irrigation programmes of certain counties.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17350	Your Honor, Agent Pecek, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17351	Thank you very much. I'm surprised at this explanation. In fact, the refusal of this amendment means giving up entirely of the Croatian Government's guidelines for agriculture, which in some ways proves 40 million kuna less through the budget rebalance in the same ministry. I am particularly surprised that the capital projects for agriculture in Slavonia are falling off in this way. I will remind you of a session of the Government of the Republic of Croatia in Osijek that has just strongly supported the irrigation project and the Food Agency project. But in the rebalancing of the budget and one project and another, they got less money than in the budget. In fact, it would be simple if the Government of the Republic of Croatia did not strongly support these projects, perhaps it would be better to pass or actually ask another question. What about those projects in Slavonia that didn't get strong government support? This strong support for the irrigation project is a heavy 6 million kuna, and we can't spend more than 6 million kuna on irrigation this year, Mr. Minister, you can't convince me.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17352	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 45th Representative of Ivica Pančić and Mate Gavran.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17353	The government does not accept this amendment either. This amendment is similar to the previous amendment, and I can only repeat that for the activities we are carrying out this year, which is the development of a master irrigation plan for not implementing irrigation projects in this year because we are aware that these projects need far greater resources. But this year's work is to develop a irrigation plan, and in accordance with the needs of these funds, it will meet the implementation of the plans and programmes for this year.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17354	Honorable representative Mato Raven.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17355	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary. I'm really surprised by the reason you keep giving. I will remind you, as well as other colleagues and colleagues, of statements and the Prime Minister, as well as many other officials that the irrigation project is a strategic project of this government. Okay, well, I'm glad you know that, but it would be even sweeter if you actually realized it. In fact, in the position for which we asked the budget to be significantly higher, 19 million kunas were envisaged by your will. You are now reducing to 6 million kuna, or rather, from a total reduction of 39 million in your ministry's position. 13 million or one third is in the irrigation project. I'll remind you that you said that the irrigation project is flat on the highway, so a strategic project. Then we expressed our suspicion not only of the irrigation project but of the construction of the highway. Unfortunately, that came true because not only were not all highways open that were planned. In 6 months, no lip from this position has been spent, including the necessary office material and other material expenditures. Therefore, there is also great concern about the continued course of activity. That's what my colleague Pecek was talking about. I'm sure if you could secure the funds so we in Slavonia could spend them. Well, here's how you think it'll be enough for the master's plan I'm asking that, hopefully, the MPs and my left wing will support and change the decision and leave at least this amount that's planned. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17356	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the votes he needed. Thank you, Minister. The Ministry of the Sea, tourism, transport and development. Amendment to the 46th Honored Representative of Antun Peru.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17357	The amendment is not accepted. Fulfillment of funds on the port captains' design to vessels, devices and other equipment in the 2004 State budget proposal was based on an analysis of the actual dynamics of construction and planned boats for the needs of port captains by the end of 2004. For the end of August, it is also planned to complete the construction of boats intended for the search and rescue of human lives at sea, which will be deployed in the area of the port captain of Pula, the office of Umag, followed by the construction of boats of the same characteristics for the needs of the port captain Split, the Vis station, whose completion is scheduled in the first half of 2005. Accordingly, the funds provided by changes and additions to the State budget will be sufficient to monitor the planned construction dynamics.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17358	Honorable representative Antun Perusko.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17359	Mr. President and Mr. Secretary of State. If Croatia really claims to be a maritime country which, by its natural resources, is, unfortunately, without a commercial fleet that we have destroyed in the process of conversion and privatisation, I know for carrying out international obligations, and you also know how important it is to equip the captains of these vessels. Especially as they are built on domestic wagons, and the former government in part completed the South and Central Adriatic project, and now the northern Adriatic has come into question. I'm afraid this is going to slow down, and people are sailing to sea on a daily basis to unsuitable vessels, often putting their own lives at risk. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17360	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 47, also a respected representative of Anton Peru.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17361	The amendment is not accepted. The reduction of resources to maritime transport activity and safety in the 2004 amendment and addition of the state budget was made as part of the redistribution and pooling of funds from more individual activities to joint activities. The Ministry of the Sea, tourism, transport and development. In this way, the pooled funds are primarily for the professional improvement of international and domestic membership fees, intellectual and personal services. It should be noted that the above-mentioned redistribution will in no case compromise the planned activities of port captains in carrying out surveillance of maritime navigation security in 2004.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17362	Honorable representative Anton Perusko.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17363	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, at the adoption of the state budget, I have asked for a new item of tragedy and rescue at sea, I am told that these funds are provided in an item that is the safety of maritime transport, and I am sure that your opinion is not shared by people in port captains and I know that in the first part of the year there is no need for the engagement of these funds, but in the second part, because of nautical tourism and what happens through it, people have to be at sea daily, and I think they deserve the proper equipment. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17364	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you for not getting the necessary majority. 48th Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17365	The amendment is not accepted. I suppose given the correlation between the intensities of the amendments and the argument that there was a certain misunderstanding. The above-mentioned amendment implies an increase in the resources of the other staff expenditures of the Ministry, costs include severance fees, jubilee awards, regresses and travel expenses, which is due to the reasons set by the honourable representative, so thank you for saying the attempt of generosity but these 500 thousand kunas will be sufficient for the state administration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17366	Dear Representative Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17367	You may be right, therefore, that the wrong point but the intensity is therefore that the citizens of Vukovar and Vukovar County did not exercise the right to raise salaries based on work in areas of special state concern from the moment of peaceful reintegration until 2000, since the HDZ Government did not classify Vukovar as a category of areas of special state concern. These citizens today have to exercise this right by court and what is most tragic is that they are charged with judicial costs in the process, so I am asking you nicely, I agree that this is wrong but I ask you very nicely that in cooperation with the Ministry of the Family, you solve the problem of those citizens who have the right to raise salaries based on work at that time, and also to give an indication that these citizens are not charged with judicial fees when they exercise their right. I'm giving up the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17368	Thank you very much. Amendment 48 withdrawn, thank you to Secretary of State Drazen Bregle. Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, State Secretary Nevio Šetić, Amendment 49. The Club of Representatives of libre.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17369	The amendment is rejected for the reason that the Japanese Government will donate to the state budget for 2004 an amount of 2 million and 300,000 kuna for reform, i.e. changes in education, the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, an additional 50% of that amount. Since the Ministry of Science, Education, Sports is only at the initial stage of the change in education the planned amount will be enough and do not need to change it.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17370	Honorable representative Jozo Radosh.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17371	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, I find that there is not a single minister in the assembly that is not very commendable for this government towards the Parliament and for the state budget and in terms of what Mr. Secretary of State Shetic said, the government only in the budget's rebalancing has provided money for reforming education. Education reform is one of the most important or perhaps most important reforms, and it is absolutely unacceptable and incomprehensible that these funds for reforming education and the project were not found at the beginning of the state budget. Since it has already been lost half a year in such an important process, it would be good to speed up the process. Of course, what Mr. Secretary of State said about the Japanese government's donation should be appreciated, but the importance of this project actually requires an acceleration of the project and that means an increase in resources. So I, Mr. President, request a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17372	Please. Who's in favour of this amendment? He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment of the 50th Honored Representatives Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17373	The amendment is rejected because the legal obligation to build a building... preschool education and education lies in municipalities, cities and counties.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17374	Honored representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17375	It is formally exactly what you are saying, however, here for the kindergarten in Vir has completed project documentation, the government is often taking pictures with children, holding them in the arms of the hip over its fate, the Vir has been able to do a lot of things and this was once promised, so I think not only because it was promised but simply appealing to this truly displayed verbalization, and we hope that it will not remain on it, so it is accordingly an amendment and written to help the government in this sense because there is a kindergarten really necessary there are a lot of employees and there is no place to put children.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17376	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you for not getting the necessary majority. Amendment of 51st Honored Representative Zvonimir Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17377	FOR the same reason the Ministry cannot finance this project because it is in the programme of municipalities, cities and counties.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17378	Dear Representative Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17379	I give up.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17380	Thank you, Amendment 51, withdrawn. Amendment 52.Respected MPs Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17381	The amendment is rejected for the reason that, following the amendment and addition of the Charter of Fundamental and Secondary Education, funds for these purposes are provided in the budgets of the county and cities, hence decentralised funds, and the Ministry of Science and Education and Sports only finance capital projects which were found in the state budget of the Republic of Croatia on 1 July 2001. I would also like to point out that the Ministry has once once built a sports hall there, so we don't know what the amendment wants.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17382	Honored representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17383	For this hall it was for high school a long time ago the project was completed and its justification for building the hall was not questioned because of this amendment and proposed.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17384	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you for not getting the necessary majority. 53rd also respected MPs Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17385	The amendment cannot be accepted for the reason that after the amendment and addition of the Law on primary and secondary education, as I have already said, these functions have moved to the county and cities, 32 cities.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17386	Honored representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17387	So for the construction of this elementary school in Nin during 2003, the consent of Zadar County was also obtained, the local board donated land on which the school would be built worth about 6 million kuna, a building permit was obtained, the old school was really time-consuming but could be sold and the funds of 2 million kuna could be provided and construction would be started, so this amendment was proposed to provide the additional funds.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17388	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you for not getting the necessary majority. 54th Amendment of the Honorable Representative, Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17389	The amendment is not accepted for the same reasons because these are decentralised functions voted by the former Government and based on which 32 cities in the Republic of Croatia care about these capital investments.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17390	I might agree with you that in the rebalancing of this budget there is not one new item for building a new sports hall. Therefore, your argument does not stand. But this is about building halls for children at the elementary school of Virje, Novigrad Podravski, Kalinovac, Koprivnski brga, Kvosta Podravski, St. Peter Orehovac, children who have no conditions for physical education. And it's about not asking the state to build these halls, but only asking 3.5 million kuna to co-finance the construction of these halls. The county has already prepared project documentation, secured land and secured other funds. If it's a decentralised asset, it just needs to be increased. If that's what you're saying, then the county could do it itself, but obviously it can't do it without the ministry. The same is true of building a 4th-grade district school in Trema, at the elementary school of St. Ivan Žabno, where all the papers are prepared, the county, i.e. the municipality bought land, the project was funded, we just need some money to build four classes together with the county and that children can go to normal school and into normal conditions. So, not to be asked to take over the construction of sports halls as it does in one city in the rebalancing of this budget, but simply to help the county build it with only three and a half million kuna. And it's about six gyms and one school. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17391	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you, he didn't get the necessary majority. 55th Amendment of the Honorable Representative Anton Peruška.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17392	The amendment cannot be accepted. Namely, the previously planned amount before the rebalancing of 2 million kuna concerned possible settlement by the performance of the contractor at the previous construction of the primary school in Vrsar. The ministry believes that the obligation to pay off... the funds of any payment of funds made to the settlement of the funds of the implementation to the Istrian County and the municipality of Vrsar. Namely, after the amendment and addition of the Law on Fundamental Education, the founder of the Istar County School's course. It is also a fact that the former Ministry of Education and Sports did not participate in the conclusion of the construction contract, so it did not even assume obligations under the contract for construction. Since the terms of the settlement have not been met, the Ministry holds that there is no such obligation, so we propose a reduction of funds from 2 million kuna to 50 thousand kuna. However, I would like to point out that we are prepared to consider possible new facts.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17393	The Honorable Representative of Peru.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17394	Well, the last one is kind of satisfying me. Because otherwise you'd say, wipe out that 50,000 kuna. But this last one pleases me. I'm withdrawing the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17395	Thank you very much. Amendment 55 withdrawn. Amendment to the 56th Honored Representative of Zvonimir Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17396	The amendment cannot be accepted for the reason that after the amendment and addition of the Law on primary and secondary education, these become decentralised functions of the role of counties and cities. This is not about aid, simply those municipalities that cannot finance, then funds, i.e. municipalities, or cities, can be found from the Harmonisation Fund, that is, the county needs to plan those capital allocations.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17397	Dear Representative Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17398	Secretary of State here, this isn't about the state taking over capital building again. This is just about increasing the amount of decentralised funds. The county could not plan as much funding as needed for additional investment in the primary schools of Koprivnica-križevci County, but only as much as 2.9 plus the settlement fund for minimum standards. So your arguments don't stand. But I want to tell you that Koprivnica and Križevci County is the only county that has not entered the C5 programme and the Koprivnica-Kryzevci County is not built at this time by a single school on the burden of the state budget, and the vast majority of schools built only by the contribution of citizens. This is about simply helping the county with a larger amount of decentralised resources, creating conditions for someone not to get a beam on their head while teaching at the beginning of the school year, or for a child not to kill electricity. Again, it's about 5 million kunas, and a few-tenths of a school in Koprivnica-Kristevina County. So if your arguments were to stand, then the county would have planned a larger funding, it would have been more decentralised, or from the Fund for Alignment, and those funds would have come. But the settlement fund spent 56.6% in the first six months. Therefore, I warned the finance minister will not be in the Fund for Compensation for Material Costs until the end of the year, let alone investment maintenance. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17399	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you, he didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment of the 57th Honored Representative of Anton Peru.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17400	The amendment cannot be accepted. However, since we know the fact that the school is burned out, we will conduct consultations in the Government of the Republic of Croatia on possible assistance from budget reserves that are possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17401	The Honorable Representative of Peru.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17402	I'm sorry, I didn't understand the last one.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17403	So we can't accept this amendment. But we know the fact that recently 30 days ago, 40 days ago, a school burned down in Balaam, and we will conduct consultations in the Government of the Republic of Croatia on possible assistance from budget reserves.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17404	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, I must say that I am somewhat pleased. You know as well as I do, 2. 6th School burned down and the item was not in the budget, it is a poor municipality in which children have completed teaching in the parish hall for the past 20 days. The damage total was estimated at 3 million 958 thousand and neither the county nor the municipality alone can. However, I appreciate what you said and I take it back.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17405	We've made a decision.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17406	Thank you very much. Amendment 57 is withdrawn. Amendment 58 of the also respected representative of Anton Peru.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17407	The amendment cannot be accepted for the reason that the proposed amount of $ 3.8 million is covered by all agreed commitments on this capital project to full functionality. Therefore, the proposed reduction from 4.3 million to 3.8 million kuna is logical.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17408	All right, happy. There's no reason not to believe it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17409	Thank you very much. and Amendment 58 withdrawn. Amendment 59 of the Honored Representative, Dragica Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17410	The amendment cannot be accepted on the grounds that, following the amendment and addition of the Charter of Fundamental and Secondary Education, funds are provided for these purposes in the budget of the county and cities of decentralised funds. And the Ministry of Science is no longer concerned after 1 July 2001. I'd like to say another one. The Ministry of Science, Education and Sports proposed that the project be financed from the C5 project at the Ministry of the Sea, Tourism, Transport and Development, which has not yet been reached by common consent due to the limited funds in the said credit line.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17411	Dear Representative Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17412	So I've repeated this amendment in this rebalancing process just to get an answer about whether this school has entered the C5 loan system. Now we have a decoded answer that it isn't. Namely, for this school, all the preparations have been made for the construction of this school. The competition is also closed and these days offers will actually be opened and the best bidder will be selected. In the municipality and county budgets, funds have been provided for this phase of school construction. I would point out that this school is currently attending more than a third of the Roma population's children, with a tendency that over a year or two percent of all students will be pupils of the Roma population. And I think the state has to get involved here, because it's not possible to secure it from just decentralised funds. and I ask you nicely to try however, to enter this project into the part that will be financed from the international C5 loan. I would still, I wouldn't give up on this amendment. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17413	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment of the 60th Representative, Marija Lugarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17414	The amendment cannot be accepted because the funds for these purposes are already provided and implemented on the K11 0283 capital project of primary school equipment of school libraries and other projects and programmes financed on this capital project are not yet valorised.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17415	Dear representative Marija Lugaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17416	Dear Mr. Secretary of State, the truth works for us in the state budget in this proposal has been written by the following "Books in Library Plan 2004. 15 million kuna, an increase of minus 15 million kuna, a new plan for 2004 zero kuna.". I can't accept that you provide zero kunas for books in libraries. Then you planned something wrong. Anyway, you're not doing well. That's why I'm asking the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17417	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 61. The Club of Representatives of libre.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17418	Well, for the same reasons, this amendment cannot be accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17419	Honorable representative Jozo Radosh.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17420	Mr. President, the Secretary of State says that the reason why the amendment is not accepted is because there is an item of equipment for libraries but obviously for filling these libraries with books there is this item. This item, which was planned in the amount of 15 million kuna, was completely abolished because a new item had been inserted which was previously unknown, which is the Olympic Games and the costs associated with them, which is rather strange. But here's the difference between my colleague Lugaric and I may be offering a better withdrawal of funds from other items. She suggested it be from the Ministry of Finance's position incentives for education, culture, science and health care in the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina and I suggest it be with the item Anti-intelligence Agency. The only agency that has not experienced a more serious reform or a reduction in the last few years, which is increasing by 40% compared to last year, which should deal with the dominant repression of corruption and organised crime, and we know that this is not going well in Croatia. Therefore, I think with this explanation, the government will accept the amendment from where it will obtain funds. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17421	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 62th Honored MPs Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17422	The amendment is not accepted for the reason that the construction of the said school is already being implemented as part of the project C5 at the Ministry of the Sea, Tourism, Transport and Development.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17423	If that's the case, you've already answered that once, but none of it. Namely, the means to produce the project documentation are a necessary team before the Vir municipality has just bought land where it would build a school. Therefore, this is indeed one small minimum aid in co-financing of the state in this significant project in common. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17424	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 63rd representative Marija Lugarić and Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17425	The amendment is not accepted for the reason that the capital project is located only in the phase of the construction contract, after which it is necessary to request the consent of the Government of the Republic of Croatia for a multi-annual period of over 72 million kuna, and therefore we believe that the guaranteed funds of 2 million kuna in 2004 are sufficient in view of the commitments made.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17426	Honorable representativeplatimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17427	It is therefore about building four secondary schools in Bjelovar where there are also great spatial problems for secondary education. At the state budget, you said two million kunas would be enough. There was a competition and the competition was under way. The contest was cancelled in the second month, from the second month until today almost nothing happens. One construction season has been lost. I don't see any reason, you co-workers can put your head down, I don't see any reason why it didn't go into opening a new competition or why a direct contract with a contractor and the government's consent was not made. For that, it's not... Will someone speak for me? [[The speaker is off, you can't hear it.]] Then let me talk. Don't do it, then. Don't make me angry. So we lost one construction season and apparently the government had no intention of starting building that four high school this year. If contracted and there is no reason not to contract construction over the next month and four secondary schools, 2 million kuna will not be enough to harvest and fence the land. Therefore, I ask that we vote on this amendment and allow Bjelovar and Bjelovar high school students to develop secondary education and to obtain appropriate conditions for the education of the young generation in Bjelovar and Bjelovar-Bjelovar County.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17428	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 64th Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17429	We do not accept the amendment for known reasons because it is about the decentralised funds they care about and these capital facilities of the county and 32 cities. By the way, I want to say that we know the fact about the bad space and the conditions of high schools in Koprivnica, but we also know that the county in cooperation with the city is leading the activities of building a new high school.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17430	Representative Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17431	I'm glad that in these six months you've been familiar with spatial conditions, you and the minister have been invited to come to high school and that you really see it at the beginning of the school year when there will be an unprecedented molding in the halls where three schools, 85 classrooms in 23 classes. We do make preparations, the city invested 15 million kunas in land, municipal infrastructure, 3 million kunas in projects. The county has appointed 3 million kuna for construction, but we really need some money from the state. It is a project worth 70 million kuna, and we have said that the city will finance what is above the standards of student and school standards although, of course, secondary education is not in the jurisdiction of cities, secondary education is not decentralised to cities and I repeat that there is one school facility in the budget that was not, even two ducks that were not in this budget on 30 March 2001 and they found a place in this budget. But I deeply believe that we will be able to agree with the ministry on a new model of funding schools and public spaces in the Republic of Croatia that the town of Koprivnica has funded the project and which we will very soon be able to present to the ministry. I give up.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17432	Thank you very much. Amendment 64 has been withdrawn. Amendment 65, also a representative of Zvonimir Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17433	The amendment cannot be accepted for already explained reasons but I agree with the honourable representative that different financing of capital facilities should be considered, and we are also aware and we are working on such considerations but it is a matter of a broader consensus.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17434	Dear Representative Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17435	Well, I don't agree with you that we should, maybe we should consider it, but I don't agree that capital building is centralized. It should be possible to increase the amount of decentralised funds or to increase the share of income, income tax which will remain for cities and counties and cities and counties then can be resolved because it cannot be given to Koprivnica-križevci County 2.9% for primary and 2% for secondary education as well as per student and per school as it is given in some other counties if we know that more than 2 billion kuna from Koprivnica-Crizevina County are sent to the state budget annually. So this is about some 9 million kunas compared to the 2 billion that are collected in our county, so these are minimum funds and there are really conditions that children don't have to come to school at 7 p.m. and come to 8 p.m. from school because there are no spatial conditions, as well for normal high school, high school education. So, I'm asking you just to allow the county to plan school awakes according to needs and to ensure so many decentralised funds not to change the system. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17436	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 66th Honored Representative Maria Lugarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17437	The amendment cannot be accepted for the reason that funds for these purposes in secondary school are already secured and implemented on capital K 11 02 91 secondary school equipment of school libraries and other projects and programmes financed on this capital project are not yet valorised.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17438	Dear representative Lugaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17439	Dear Mr. President, even though he is a state secretary for primary school, I think he can also talk about the amendments to the secondary school. What I want to say here is similar to that of the previous amendment we provide for the purchase of books in libraries in high schools of zero kuna. We were forecasting 5 million kunas, that's what you suggested in the budget, now those 5 million kunas are being abolished. On the other hand, this item from which I propose to remove these 5 million kunas amounts to 25 million kuna, and from it in the six months none of the only limes has been spent. And if I had to choose, that's right, if I had to choose then I would still choose to single out those 5 million kunas out of these 25 for our high schools and for books in libraries because it's totally unacceptable for that item to be zero kuna. Thank you very much. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17440	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment of the 67th Vice-President Đurđe Adlesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17441	This amendment cannot be accepted because the funds are planned in other paragraphs so that these funds are not necessary.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17442	Dear Vice President Djurdja Adlesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17443	Thank you, Mr. President, I am, of course, pleased with the answer because it is important to me that the funds are secured, I don't care what item it is. And I am particularly pleased that these four secondary schools will begin to be built in Bjelovar at the 9th month, which can be confirmed by the secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17444	Amendment withdrawn? Thank you very much. Amendment withdrawn. Amendment 68th also came from Vice-President Djurđe Adlesic. And the 68th is withdrawn. Thank you very much. 69th Honored Representative Maria Lugarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17445	The amendment cannot be accepted because the planned amount is sufficient to plan the liabilities of those capital activities.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17446	Dear representative Lugaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17447	This is about this rebalancing of funds for the college centers being reduced by 3 million kuna. I remind you that Minister Primorac has promised to build a new November home in Zagreb, a new November home in Split, and now these funds for capital building, i.e. the November centre, are shrinking. At the same time, we have an increase of 3.5 million kuna for the construction of the Ministry of Science building. So I'm asking you to equip your own building, build a dormitory, build a dormitory. In any case, these funds have been significantly reduced compared to 2003. I personally cannot accept that you are reducing those angers for the November centers and you are increasing to edit your own building, so please vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17448	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. The 70th Honorable Representative, Dear Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17449	The amendment cannot be accepted for the reason that the funds for this purpose are already secured in the planned amount according to the capital activity contract on project K 40 74 10 of higher schools and higher schools.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17450	Dear Representative Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17451	So that means you've accepted that amendment? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17452	He's already in the budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17453	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17454	No, I don't.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17455	Secretary of State, with the amendment of the 70th Honored Petty Officer, Dragica Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17456	The amendment was not accepted for the reason that these were already planned funds in the budget under the higher education and higher school item, so it was not accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17457	Which item?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17458	Dear Zgrebec, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17459	I'd like to know which item he's accepted in. I have here in my hands an agreement that was signed and certified by public notebook 6. Six. 2002. Under the contract, the building, which will serve the needs of the 8 million kuna higher education, has been awarded so far. There is still a commitment because the land building was estimated at 12 million 885 thousand 575.59 kuna, the difference of 4 million 885 thousand 575 total 59 kuna for this year. Since these funds are not determined if they are planned in the budget then you have accepted my amendment if we are not going to be in the city forced not to allow the state's book on this land book building until this rest of the obligation is realized.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17460	That's right. So, I can repeat, we are fully familiar with the problem, we are your amendment that we cannot accept here because these funds are already planned at K 40 74 10, it's a high school university.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17461	K 40 74 10. [[Intruder: 74 10]] Thank you very much. Then I withdraw the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17462	Thanks a nice amendment to the 70th Retired. Amendment of 71st Honored Representative Maria Lugaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17463	The amendment cannot be accepted because the newly planned funds are sufficient for commitments during 2004.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17464	Dear representative Lugaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17465	I'm not quite sure that the Secretary of State's primary school statement that it is sufficient funds, namely the Government in this budget rebalancing, provides for a reduction of funding for scientific recruits by 13.5 million kuna. He also makes a decision to be with 1. 6. hired a significant new number of scientific recruits and at the same time the funds and these reduced were significantly smaller than those of last year when we had a much smaller number of scientific recruits. So the math of about 3 grade primary school says that it won't be enough resources. The second thing is quite unacceptable is what you said when you were making the budget and boasting that you increased some 7% of the Ministry of Science and Technology's budget that is most important that scientific money is the most important thing. Now cut resources for scientific recruits by 13.5 million kuna. I am asking this amendment to equalise these funds with those you have proposed in the 2004 budget. Thank you very much. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17466	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 72th Amendment of the Club of Representatives of libre.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17467	This amendment cannot be accepted for the same reasons, since the funds given are sufficient for commitments during the newly planned funding during 2004 and we are fully familiar with this problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17468	Honorable representative Jozo Radosh.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17469	Mr. President, these funds cannot be sufficient unless the number of scientific recruits the government plans to receive this year is reduced. Since, according to the conclusion of the Committee on Education and Science, it is minimally necessary to employ about 600 scientific recruits over the next years and it would actually be optimal 1200 which is 10% of all students who finish, the best students who finish colleges in the Republic of Croatia. Thus, what is predicted can only employ 200 scientific recruits. It's absolutely insufficient of course the bad plans can then be met with these means. We do not mind that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has taken over our slogan for Croatian knowledge in the form of a Croatian land of knowledge but this is not on the way of the Croatian land of knowledge. If these amendments are not accepted, Mr. Secretary of State, Mr. and gentlemen, MPs, members of the parliamentary majority, this will be the first time that the funds for science and education are reduced. If we adopt this budget for the first time in five years, if we adopt this budget for the first time in five years, the funds for education and science will be less than they were before. I therefore request a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17470	Thank you. Please, who's in favor of this amendment? He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 73. The club of Representative Libra, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17471	The amendment cannot be accepted for the reason that the mention of the institute has no ownership space, so it is not possible to invest. It is about other people's premises and is therefore proposed to reduce already planned funds from 2 million kuna to 0 kuna. And I would like to tell Mr. Representative that the funds under this rebalancing for the Ministry of Science have not been reduced by a single kuna. There's been a redistribution, but we've stayed on those budget-planned assets.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17472	Honorable representative Jozo Radosh.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17473	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. So the Croatian Language Institute works on several locations in very difficult conditions. In order to achieve the necessary degree of quality of the work of the institute, it is of course necessary that the Institute works in an appropriate accommodation. Without this, it cannot be expected that this institute will fulfil its tasks, and under the conditions of modern, modern, language communication, the tasks of the institute are actually very important for the preservation of the Croatian language and for everything that is actually required by language policy in the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, this argument, which the Secretary of State said, cannot be accepted, but the resources it speaks of remain the same in absolute terms, but since the overall state budget is increased then the share of the Ministry of Science and Education, so the share of science and education in the overall budget of the Republic of Croatia, falls for the first time in 5 years. If these amendments of Libre are not accepted tomorrow we will have a smaller share of science and education in the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia than it is today. That's why I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17474	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 75. of the also respected representative, Marija Lugaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17475	The amendment cannot be accepted because the planned amount of 382 thousand, 382 thousand 73 kuna, is sufficient for planned activities during 2004.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17476	Dear representative Lugaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17477	Your Honor, Mr. President, that's amendment 74, not 75.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17478	74, yes, yes.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17479	Yeah. Namely, the government of Prime Minister Sanader proposes that funds for education on human rights be halved and a little more than that. I find that completely unacceptable. It is clear from the State Secretary's explanation that if these funds are more than halved, they will be sufficient for all programmes that these programmes will be reduced and that we will not be able to teach young people enough about human rights. That seems quite scandalous to me. I think it's totally unacceptable to cut resources for human rights education. And that's why I'm asking for a vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17480	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 75. also representing Maria Lugaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17481	The amendment cannot be accepted because the newly planned amount of 864 thousand 864 kuna is sufficient for planning activities during 2004.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17482	Dear representative Marija Lugaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17483	Mr. Secretary of State, every budget here comes to defend another person from the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports. If the amount will almost be halved from the one you suggested to us only 2 to 3 months ago is enough for these items, that means that you will be doing more than almost what has been done so far in the development of secondary education. Anyway, I don't think that the funds, the reform funds in primary and secondary education, are particularly enough, and that we're going to spend only 864 thousand kuna on, for example, the Olympics who are going to get 20 million kuna, I still think it's worth investing in the development of secondary education, and I think it's totally unacceptable that we're reducing funds. I also agree with my colleagues in Libra that it is totally unacceptable that the resources for science and education are reduced in this budget and I also support it once more, as they remind me of the fact that this will be the first time in 5 years that the funds for science and education are being reduced. So please vote both on, and on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17484	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 76th also respected representatives of Marija Lugarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17485	The amendment cannot be accepted because the newly planned amount of 265 thousand 651 kuna is sufficient for the planned activities this year.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17486	Dear representative Lugaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17487	Dear Mr. President, this and the previous two amendments refer to the Croatian School Office. A roof institution that should be involved in improving both the system and what is happening in primary and secondary education. From your explanation that these reduced and more than half of the reduced items will be sufficient, I can only conclude that you are giving up the reform processes in primary and secondary education and that you will not implement the plotted programmes which, if you allow me and you are free to wonder because in the past term you were a representative when we passed the Law on the Institute of Education of the Republic of Croatia and together with me, you have advocated that the funds that are not enough for the Institute, and now you are proposing their reduction. So I'm asking for a vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17488	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Thank you, Secretary of State. We're going to the health department's positions. Secretary of State Bozikov. Amendment of 77th Honored Representative Jagoda Martic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17489	The 77th amendment is not accepted for the reason that the Ministry of Health and Social Care considers that 7 million investment started this year 2004 is sufficient. And part of the projected funds will be co-financed from the loan of the Council of Europe Development Bank such as building facilities, municipal and social infrastructure on Croatian islands, which is owned by the Ministry of the Sea, Tourism, Transport and Development.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17490	Dear Representative Martic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17491	My dear secretary, I'm not happy with the explanation. Namely, even when the Budget was being adopted, I pointed out that a 10 million kuna item was then foreseen, that it was not enough for all the jobs that had already been started, which were under way to restore the health homes of Vis, Jelsa and Hvar, and where are all our other islands? And for this reason, I believe that this item is not allowed to be reduced by an additional three million kunas because if we want to resuscitate and bring life back to the islands, I think we need to provide them with basic conditions for life and among them are certainly in the first place and adequate health care and therefore I have suggested that these 3 million kunas be removed from the item or from the position of health incentives in the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina where 30 million kuna are foreseen, and so far the realisation is zero, so if I assumed that by the end of the year the project envisaged could not be realised. Thank you very much. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17492	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 78th Honored Representative of Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17493	Amendment 78 also refuses because interpretation is practically the same. This construction of a hospital building in Vir, where it is proposed to include 800 thousand kuna, is also foreseen for the loan of the Council of Europe Development Bank as previously explained.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17494	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17495	I didn't understand. So this infirmary is going to be built out of the Council of Europe loan?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17496	Yeah.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17497	You guarantee that, don't you? Okay. Then I'm withdrawing the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17498	Thank you very much. Amendment 78 withdrawn. Amendment to the 79th Honored Representative, Dragica Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17499	This amendment is also rejected because the Ministry of Health and Social Care considers the estimated funds of 750 thousand kuna to be sufficient for the realisation of the loan fee and interest rates during the use of the loan, etc. Interkalary interest for the construction of the polyclinical stationary pavilion of the General Hospital Čakovec. It was concluded under the co-financing agreement with the Međimurje County and the county hospital Čakovec. The use of credit started on 20 February this year and payment starts on 20 December 2005. The ministry participates in 35 per cent co-financing and planned the amount the ministry's obligation was in 2004.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17500	Dear Representative Dravica Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17501	The co-financing contract for the construction of the County Hospital or General Hospital in Čakovec was envisioned already in 2003 by 4 million 850 thousand kuna. Since the work was more intensely related to construction works started in the fall of 2003, I expected this amount of 4 million 850 thousand kuna to be secured by the contract instead of 2003, but in the first year of 2004 I agree with you that this part of 740 thousand refers to interest. However, the agreement found that part of the principal was also co-financed. So if more loans are to be hired, so many counties or hospitals that the investor and the investment holder will have to provide more funds and interest will be higher, so I ask to approach the vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17502	Thank you. Who's up for this amendment? He didn't get the necessary majority. 80th Honored Representative Maria Lugarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17503	Amendment 80 cannot be accepted because the amount of 55 thousand kuna is foreseen and is sufficient for the full implementation of the plan and implementation related to the development of a new law on the restriction of the use of tobacco products.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17504	Dear representative Marija Lugaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17505	So you're looking at Mr. Secretary of State when we passed the excise tax law on tobacco products two weeks ago, then you said it was because of the reduction in smoking amongst other things. The U.S.A. has an item here not on the creation of a new law, but on the implementation of the law on the prevention of the use of tobacco products means, primarily, those provisions that rely on the ban on the sale of cigarettes to minors, which, in the catering promise, do in the shops. We all know and you're small in the government two weeks ago if I'm not mistaken, a report on the work of a state inspectorate where no one has been caught for such a violation. And now the funds that should enable the ace to limit tobacco use and sell it to minors are reduced to 55 thousand kuna. I don't think everyone's views are consistent. And I think as far as health and youth are concerned, it's completely unacceptable that in a situation where almost 75% of high school kids smoke, you reduce the resources that need to limit the use of tobacco products. I therefore appeal to all MPs and MPs to accept my amendment, which refers to 45 thousand kuna, so that the funds to limit the use of tobacco products are returned to the level proposed by the government in the 2004 budget. Thank you. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17506	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 81 amendments to the respected representative, Marija Lugarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17507	This amendment cannot be accepted because the amount of 65 thousand kuna that has been invested is sufficient for the full implementation of the plan for the reasons that more significant resources are provided by the Regulation on criteria for the determination of users and how the distribution of part of the gambling revenue for 2004. People's newspaper, 44/4.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17508	Dear representative Marija Lugaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17509	Look, Madam Secretary of State, this is about you from the government proposing that the funds for the detox program or the treatment of addicts be reduced. Despite what you said about one part of the funds going from gambling to luck. The other day we had and marked the 17.6th day of the fight against addiction, the day of the fight against drugs, we said that there were a large number of drug addicts in the Republic of Croatia that needed to be taken and invested a lot of funds in pre-injection and treatment of addiction, and today the government is proposing that the funds for the detox treatment of addicts be reduced. I will repeat, you suggest that the treatment of addicts be reduced I think it is unacceptable and I ask that this amendment be supported. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17510	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 82 also respected representatives of Marija Lugaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17511	Amendment 82 cannot be accepted because I consider the amount planned by the Ministry of Health and Social Welfare to be sufficient for the reason that, from 2003, the remaining neutral funds from the grant of the Global Fund for that purpose.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17512	Dear representative Marija Lugaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17513	Dear Mr. Secretary of State, this is about education in secondary schools on HIV or AIDS. I find it completely unacceptable for almost a million kunas to reduce education funds in high schools on HIV, regardless of what you said that some of the funds remained for education, the means of prevention are never enough, and I don't think that at least we ourselves should be able to reduce them. In this budget we have increased the items for consumption, we have increased the items by something else but we are constantly reducing the items and this amendment is an example of that for education, for prevention. First of all, when it comes to young and high-risk groups, I think it's not good, and I don't think this House does well when it accepts such changes. I once again ask MPs and MPs to vote in favour of my amendment which would return funds for education in high schools on HIV and AIDS to the level proposed by the government in the budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17514	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 83 respected prisoners, Maria Lugaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17515	Amendment 83 can also not be accepted because the amount of 20 thousand kuna provided for in this position is deemed sufficient for the implementation of the plan and programme for this year.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17516	Dear representative Marija LUgarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17517	Mr. President, the government is getting young contradictory information from the government. An old woman is about getting messages that young people should marry to have children, and I support that. On the other hand, we invest 20,000 kunas to preserve and improve reproductive health. According to the government's new proposal, I don't think that's good. I don't think 20 thousand kuna funds to improve youth reproductive health are good if we also know that because of the lifestyle, the particularly endangered reproductive health of young women who at the most fertilising age would be able to help demographic recovery in Croatia. And indeed, in this situation, 20 thousand kunas for preserving and improving the reproductive health of young people are ridiculous. Therefore, I ask MPs and MPs to support my amendment to raise these funds to the level proposed by the government in the 2004 budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17518	Who's in favor of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 84.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17519	84 amendments can also not be accepted, as funds are considered sufficient for this year also amounting to 20 thousand kuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17520	I would like an honorary representative of Jagoda Martic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17521	You are the means that are designed to preserve and improve reproductive health for women from 80,000 kuna to only 20,000, and so little is seen by the positions that have actually been erased. The rest is the only position of 20 thousand kuna, which includes other services. All other things, professional training of employees, intellectual personal services, fees for the work of representative executives have disappeared and there is only one item left that I do not know what should be contained in me and I believe that this is really too little for such programmes and I am asking for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17522	Please, who's in favor of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 85 respected MPs, Ljubica Lalić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17523	Amendment 85 cannot be accepted, as pursuant to Article 8. Health care law is not allowed to invest in health institutions not owned by the Republic of Croatia and for this reason... Nova Gradiška hospital is provided with 4 million and 350 thousand funds. [[Because of ringing the bell, the speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17524	Dear representative Ljubica Lalić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17525	Mr. Secretary of State, you've made me very confused, because I had this amendment on the budget that the minister said no to. Now you're telling me that 4.5 million kunas are secured.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17526	Four million and 350 grand.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17527	Four million and 350. Just tell me which item, I'm pulling the amendment right now.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17528	From the item of decentralised funds.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17529	Thank you, Lip, so you can't do that. These decentralised funds do not apply in any case to Nova Gradiška Hospital and since you have failed me, Mr. Secretary of State, allow me to explain the amendment. The hospital Nova Gradiška is a war hospital that suffered huge damage during the Homeland War. The General Hospital of Nova Gradiška, unfortunately, the war damage was not removed and was initiated by the removal last year. The hospital is located on three-way districts and is on the highway. Eighty-five thousand citizens from three counties are gravitating towards the hospital and the hospital is providing them with services. On this section of the highway for unknown reasons, there are terrible accidents and hospitals taking care of and unhappy. With the equipment that he has, with the capacity he has, with the building in which that hospital is located, he is in no condition to do so, so I have also invited Mr. Secretary of State to the hospital in Nova Gradiška to see what a bad hospital means. And that's why I'm asking for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17530	I'd love to, ma'am.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17531	Who's in favour of this amendment? He didn't get the necessary majority. 86 distinguished representatives of Marija Lugarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17532	Amendment 86 cannot be accepted. I believe that the amount of 50 thousand kuna which is intended to be sufficient for the full implementation of the plan is because more significant resources are provided by the Regulation on criteria for determining users and how to distribute parts of income and gambling for 2004.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17533	Dear representative Marija Lugaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17534	It's a very interesting situation again. The prevention of alcoholism in young people spends 50,000 kunas on the government's proposal. At the same time, we spend 70 thousand kuna for an exhibition in the gallery tax administration. I cannot believe that we will spend more money on the exhibition in the gallery space of the tax administration, it is the hall in New Zagreb than we will spend on preventing alcoholism in young people. Yesterday or yesterday, we talked about young people and the problems that alcohol in particular causes on the roads, and now the funds are almost four, five times reduced compared to those proposed by the government. My amendment is to increase these funds to as many as 200 thousand kunas have been proposed by the team as this means mentioned by the secretary of state from gambling are primarily related and granted to associations, and I think that the state should do much more than 50 thousand kunas to prevent alcoholism in young people. I would just like to say right now that all those MPs and MPs who will not support this amendment are pushing to spend 50,000 kuna in this country on the prevention of alcoholism in young people. I think it's embarrassing and that this amendment should be accepted. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17535	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 87 also respected representatives of Marija Lugaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17536	87 amendments cannot be accepted because this year the education of educators is envisaged, which is an amount of 180 thousand kuna and we believe that this amount is sufficient.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17537	Dear representative Marija Lugaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17538	Another one in a series of social measures of this government. Of all other preventions, it also reduces the means to prevent and detect breast cancer early. I think it's unacceptable. This is okay that you will spend funds in education of educators but during that time while you educate educators many women will get sick and need to do something in the education of these women in order to reduce this high risk population associated with breast cancer. I find it particularly unacceptable to reduce the means to prevent early detection of breast cancer, so please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17539	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 88 respected representatives of Jagoda Martic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17540	Amendment 88 cannot be accepted, because we also believe that there are enough 180 thousand kunas, which is proposed by that activity to prevent early detection of breast cancer.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17541	Dear Representative Jagoda Martic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17542	This is basically the same amendment as my colleague Lugaric. I would only add to her that I believe that we all know very well that breast cancer is somewhere on the top of a disease scale with very often the fatal consequences that our women have and we know just as much as the prevention of these diseases is important for a successful treatment and therefore I do not think that these funds can be reduced because that item that was provided for in the 200 thousand kuna budget is insufficient for me and I am simply asking that the rebalanced funds return to what was provided for in the budget. Thank you very much. I'm asking for a vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17543	Please, who's in favor of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 89 amendments to the respected representative, Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17544	89 amendments cannot be accepted because the ongoing donations of the Global Fund for the fight against AIDS, tuberculosis and malaria are strictly intended and cannot be amended for the sake of the agreement between the Ministry of Health, Social Care and the Global Fund and must apply to what is already set out.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17545	Dear Representative Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17546	I'm afraid I didn't understand you at all. So the budget envisioned 400,000 kuna for the Centre for Social Care in Koprivnica and 300,000 kuna for the Centre for Social Care in Križevci. You have now erased it and erased the Crosses completely from the budget, and the Koprivnica remains, only being mentioned in one place. Both the town of Križevci and the town of Koprivnica have sent a letter of intent to the Ministry of Health and Social Care where they want to create adequate conditions for working at the Centre for Social Care, because both in one and the other centres work in very wasteful rooms, there are a lot of people in one room, and in these centres there are people who want to have some kind of intimacy where social workers have to work in this way. Here you can even reduce some amounts on those items, but leave at least an item such as that in Koprivnica where the city said it would give land and produce project documentation has the city guarantee that next year it would start with that construction and that it would indeed be done. So this isn't about taking some money somewhere else. You took money to the Križevci, the Centre for Social Care The Cross and the Centre for Social Care Koprivnica where together the cities with you wanted to create normal conditions for the work of social workers because they have a large number of users, have very difficult cases and we wanted only together to create normal conditions for their work. Of course I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17547	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment number 90, honoured representative Maria Lugaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17548	Amendment 90 cannot be accepted because we believe that the planned amount of 60,000 kuna is sufficient to implement the planned programme by the end of the year, for the reason that the realization of the same is planned through the Global Fund donation.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17549	Dear representative Marija Lugaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17550	Dear Mr. President, general note. I think that in this rebalancing, everything that was about health care was in front of the word "prevention" protection, that the funds had been cut. This clearly shows this whole story, and I'm sorry that the MPs don't see that government mistake that they've reduced the whole prevention. This is about the HUM reduction program, i.e. the damage reduction programme in addicts. This is about replacing the syringe needle, i.e. preventing spread and prevention of infectious diseases. A month ago, we celebrated World Independence Day. Madam Deputy Prime Minister, Jadranka Kosor spoke broadly about how much to be done, and then a month after that she suggested, along with other government members, a reduction in the means to prevent infectious diseases in intravenous addicts. I think it's totally unacceptable, and in my amendment, it's almost incredible that we have 17 million kunas for just administration in a part of the state administration called the State Administration Office, and for the prevention of infectious diseases in intravenous addicts we spend 60 thousand kuna. I think it's a shame for the state and that the state can't function like that. The more we know which declarations were made. Therefore, I ask the representatives and representatives to correct this obvious error of the government that reduced the means to prevent infectious diseases in intravenous addicts. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17551	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 91 of the Honored Representative Jagoda Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17552	Amendment 91 cannot be accepted. Regulation on food monitoring in order to determine the various nutrients, contaminants, additives and other ingredients and substances aimed at determining the introduction of certain substances or substances into the organism, and to assess the health hazards of the population, as referred to in Article 106(3). Food law is to be adopted by the Minister of Health within 2 years of the entry into force of this Act, i.e. until July 2005. Since this ministry considers that the implementation of food monitoring is extremely important for the public health interest of the public, this Regulation has been drawn up earlier so that it will be delivered by the end of this month. In view of the above, we believe that the projected funds of one million kuna will be sufficient by the end of this year.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17553	Dear Representative Jagoda Martic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17554	Well, the explanation's a little weird. You're talking about getting a new rulebook, and I know very well that our rules are actually more inadequate, that time has passed, etc. And now you're reducing the projected funds by a million and 700 thousand kuna, reducing them by 700 thousand kuna. So you have to wait until the rules are passed, and during that time monitoring will not be conducted. We all know that we want healthy and healthy proper food, we know that today's level of food production technology is such that it can't actually be imagined without the use of different additives that, as a result, develop at such a rate that often analysts can't track them. The monitoring carried out in Croatia in its scope is, in fact, insufficient to see the full health regularity of the foods in our country, and therefore I believe that by reducing the resources, this will further reduce the volume. And I hope warmly when the rulebook comes then, that next year in the budget we will have twice as much resources as they were intended for this budget. I demand that this amendment be voted upon.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17555	Please, who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 92nd, also respected representatives of Jagoda Martic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17556	The amendment 92 cannot be accepted because the funds for official food control refer only to the need for testing of food carried out through the health and welfare ministry’s sanitary inspection, and we also hold that by the end of this fiscal year the funds in the rebalancing sector will be sufficient for this purpose. Sanitary inspection in the counties, i.e. the City of Zagreb for the control of food health law, shall be used by means which are provided for that purpose in their budget of the counties, i.e. the City of Zagreb, on the basis of the obligations laid down in Article 9(1), indent 2. The health care law.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17557	Dear Representative Jagoda Martic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17558	I absolutely disagree with this argument. Namely, the sanitary inspection as you yourself said is the bearer, among other things, of the business on the control of the groceries. I come from the tourist area, I know it's a prime time when the sanitary inspection is in control this very seasonal part of the year, meaning 5, 6, 7 and 8 months. Practically before and after, very little work is done precisely because those funds allocated to them are kept for this period of the year. Therefore, the absolute means as you say cannot be enough for the jobs they need to do. That's why I'm asking for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17559	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. The 93rd amendment, also respected representatives of Jagoda Martic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17560	Amendment 93 cannot be accepted because it is based on Article 106(2) and (3). The Food Act of the Minister of Health has been authorised within 2 years of the entry into force of this Act, i.e. by July 2005 to adopt an implementing regulation on the conditions for the implementation of the self-control system in the facilities in which food is produced, or placed on the market and the means for that purpose will be planned in the budget for the following year 2005.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17561	Dear Representative Jagoda Martic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17562	You have, in fact, deleted the funds foreseen by the budget for the control of the implementation of the HASAP. So that 450 thousand kuna is gone. So this year, the government is not planning at all, or the Ministry is not planning to monitor the implementation of the HasAP programme. Namely, the introduction of the HASAP programme in production and distribution, i.e. the transport of groceries, is ensured by the health-corrected final product. It began to be introduced quite slowly in Croatia a few years ago, and I believe that when it is fully summed up then the funds that need to be allocated to control the health regularity of the foods will actually simply be reduced, i.e. there will be far less need for such control. I can't agree with the explanation that we're waiting for the regulation to be passed so that we'll have some kind of air-empty space for a while. Therefore, I demand that this amendment be voted upon.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17563	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 94 by representatives Mate Arlovic, Mate Gavrana and Milanka Opačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17564	The 94th amendment cannot be accepted because, through the World Bank's first loan in the social segment, the social funds of a million kuna for the adaptation and reconstruction of sanitary nodes during 2005 will be provided in the amount of 300 thousand kuna. It will be ensured from the dedicated revenues, therefore, of the Ministry of Health and Social Care’s own income, as referred to in Article 37. The State budget implementation law for 2004 is not being paid into the state budget and is not being planned in the state budget. Therefore, this paragraph cannot be increased.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17565	Honorable representative Mato Raven.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17566	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Until this moment, I was convinced that it was almost incredible and harsh oversight. As much as the estimated funds of 500 thousand kuna are reduced to only 200 thousand kuna, despite the promise of the Minister for the same pay phone, Mr. Secretary of State that you are in charge of the budget that he did not know what these funds were intended for and I will remind you and everyone else about the need to take care of three children who are in a home without adequate parental care or parent care, and who this year alone because they have turned 18 they have to leave home and by force of the law. On several occasions, the minister promised me that he would do anything to take care of these children and I must admit that I was really caught up in the knowledge that instead of increasing, we have a reduction of 300 thousand kuna for these purposes. These 200 thousand kunas are also not enough for the rough editing of a sanitary knot in a home where other children will live, waiting for almost the same fate as these three this year, so according to you, Mr. Secretary of State, because I simply cannot believe that behind it is the minister, these children must go out into the street regardless of the force of their promises. I appeal to you colleagues and colleagues, most of us have children and can you even imagine that opposition to tell your children for 18 birthdays instead of congratulating you that they must leave the house they lived in right now. With that in mind I simply ask to change this decision, we tried to change this by our own strength, from the town of Brod we got a dedicated site and we plan to build a house where there would be three apartments for these children. Once again, please vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17567	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you, he didn't get the necessary majority. The 95th Amendment of Honored Representative Ljubice Lalic. The Department of Justice. I'm asking Minister Vesna Scare-Ozbolt. The amendment of the respected representative Ljubica Lalić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17568	This amendment is not accepted for the reason why counterpart Lalic proposed 6 million kuna for the purchase of a building for the county court's needs in Slavonski Brod. The purchase of the building is ongoing and for 4.5 million kuna, the purchase already, the purchase process is already on completion and there is no need to predict so much funds because we have already decided from special sources of the Ministry of Justice to buy the building for 4.5 million.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17569	Does that mean Madam Minister that the funds are secured?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17570	Yeah.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17571	And she'll be paid. Well, she was alive, I'm withdrawing the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17572	Everyone's fine. Amendment withdrawn. Thank you. Honored representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17573	The amendment is not accepted, this is a slightly longer amendment. For the County Court building there is no need to increase the amount because practically according to the present situation paid the last situation and the money has enough or the building is, the works are before the end, the work on the façade recovery, and there is enough money to pay off the last situation. When it comes to the prison hospital in Zagreb, the proposed amount in these changes and additions to the state budget is also sufficient for the actions taken, making project documentation because it is planned in this year to produce project documentation and there is plenty of money there. The County Court in Split will take action, produce project documentation and resources will be sufficient. The County Court in Rijeka, I must admit, is not clear to me that you've proposed an increase in the amount of 460 kuna, I don't think there's any big impact on the costs of adapting the building to the court. The county court in Vukovar has proposed an increase of 1 million kuna, which is practically impossible to spend by the end of 2004 because the reconstructions of the construction of a semi-destructed building, given the large number of rainy days, will go slower. The High Violent Court also proposed a sufficient amount of money, given that the completion of the building was planned in 2005. The trade court in Zadar is closed and the last situation is paid at the conclusion of the building, the building will be moved in 15 days and there is no need to increase the amounts. The municipal court in Velika Gorica increases the planned funds for 989 kuna, I don't think it has any impact on the cost of adapting the court building. The municipal and criminal court in Trogir and there are planned funds sufficient to complete the work on the criminal court and prepare the project documentation on the necessary consent for the restoration of the municipal court building. And at the end of this big amendment, the municipal court and the municipal state attorney's office in Split, gave up these projects because the proposal is to bring all judicial authorities together and make a single solution that is already under way.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17574	Honored representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17575	Dear Madam Ministers, it is under way when the money of 0 kuna is provided, for one of our greatest judicial needs, and these are the judicial bodies in the city of Split where we need that space so much because we know that the backlogs are the biggest. And this space was secured last year, so the space was secured, so it was just supposed to cross it faster or sell it or adapt it. The High Violent Court was also provided with space last year, and now there is no means to adapt and equip and you have seen for yourself what conditions almost in pigeons work. Likewise in the County Court in Zadar, there are four judicial bodies we provided last year to move POA and POA is also on the 4th floor where the County Court is located and they should move out so that they are also needs for the County Court in Zadar and are also even more needed by the County State Attorney's Office where you have convinced yourself that four state attorneys work in one single room, including 2 cleaning women have at least two problems. Thank you very much, but as I think from your explanation, there is no hope for this, I ask the vote and the question whether the question whether or not to continue to explain these amendments of mine if you stay with it seems to make no sense so I don't bother you or myself. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17576	Please. The vote. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you for not passing. 97th also respected MPs Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17577	This amendment is not accepted precisely because we remain at the amount proposed under the amendments and additions of the state budget for the capital project...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17578	Don't give me any more pleasures to share in public, but I'm talking about statements of grace. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17579	Therefore, it is about the restoration of the rolling stock, after the public competition is announced, the potential lack of funds will be secured from their own incomes. In fact, I'm here to say that the Justice Department has its own income, and we found that in the registration, it was three years 150 million of rights that we're going to cash in, and from these funds we're going to solve a large part of the capital facilities, so we've already solved quite a lot in these six months.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17580	Honorable representative Ingrid Antičević. She's not present, please vote on that amendment. Who's up for that amendment? Thanks, he didn't get enough votes. 98th Amendment of Honored Representatives Mate Arlovic and Mate Gavran.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17581	So here's the amendment again to the County Court in Slavonski Brod, there's even a bigger amount planned than counterpart Lalić 7 million kuna. Here's what we've settled for 4.5 million kuna and we're practically ahead of the conclusion of the contract.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17582	A fellow Raven.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17583	I'm glad to hear it, Madam Minister, I'd still like to get an answer and I'll probably get a boat public when that money is paid. And besides, I also asked for an increase in funds compared to my colleague Lalic, for the reason that the building should be equipped, it should be arranged a little bit. Because he's in a derivative state, at least internally after the city administration's eviction.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17584	That building will be equipped with additional resources, that's right.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17585	So this year it will be bought and arranged and equipped to be fully operational.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17586	That building will be redeemed this year.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17587	Okay, we can't do that.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17588	Thank you very much. If that's the case, I'm giving up the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17589	Thank you very much. Amendment withdrawn. 99th Honored representative of Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17590	The County Court in Koprivnica wasn't planned this year. What counterpart Mršić proposed is not enough to prepare the project documentation either. Therefore, this project remains for next year's budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17591	Dear Representative Mršić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17592	Dear Ministers don't need money to prepare the project documentation, because the city and the county said they would finance project documentation and the city would pay a communal contribution. So, you don't need that money, you can sew it in. But when you have already found 150 million kunas in a drawer there in the ministry, then I suggest that you not include in the next budget the adaptation of the attics, but the construction of the Palace of Justice in Koprivnica, for which there is an idea project in the Ministry of Justice, is already a local permit, which is also the city of Koprivnica invested some money, and is ready to collect all the necessary land needed to build the Palace of Justice building. Because apart from the County Court that part of the work... Someone better know the situation in Koprivnica than I do? [[speaks off, can't be heard]] And say it. So, apart from what the County Court is doing in the district court, the County State Attorney's Office is working you in rented premises, and the Criminal Court is working in the premises of the town of Koprivnica where the current debt is over 300 thousand kuna towards the town of Koprivnica. So I'm asking you nicely, I've invited you to the budget, now I'm asking you again to come to Koprivnica and solve this case, I hope you don't need this, when that 150 million kuna is probably going to be a few million dollars for Koprivnica. I'm giving up the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17593	Thank you very much. Amendment 99 withdrawn. Amendment number 100. Honored representative Dragica Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17594	This amendment is not accepted, it is the County Court in Čakovec, adaptation and equipment of the building. The proposed amount of 3 million kunas practically if we put it now is not possible to spend until the end of the year due to the short time for the implementation of the selection procedure by the Public Procurement Act, but this court is absolutely in view and as I said when voting the budget it will be up.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17595	Dear Representative Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17596	I have actually given this amendment in the hope that it will be an incentive to address the issue of the County Court and the County State's Attorney's Office. Namely, the County Court was established a few years ago and practically, if they can express themselves so vividly in the areas of the Municipal Court and are now in trouble, so one and the other court in Čakovec, because they do not have adequate spaces, and more and more are also the situation in the State's attorney's office. It works for the rental of space in two locations, it's both the County and the Municipal State's Attorney's Office. Since the state has owned two adequate buildings in Čakovec through settlements and compensation obligations with the Ministry of Finance, which could be used for this purpose. I ask that this amendment of mine be an incentive to resolve it. And it seems to me that these 3 million kunas would be enough to produce the necessary documentation which, because one or another building that chooses to actually adapt to the needs of the court and the attorney's office. But I'd still be begging to vote on this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17597	Please. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you, he didn't get the necessary majority. Of the respected representative, 101st Amendment Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17598	It is about informing the judicial authorities, where a higher amount is foreseen for a million kunas, it is about information equipment. This amendment is not accepted, for the reasons that we have already, as I have said through these sold rights, provided a far greater amount for the purchase of information equipment, so equipment for the establishment of an integrated criminal and criminal record at the country level, for the networking of judicial authorities and for a number of other information equipment. Therefore, we envisioned a higher amount by selling rights than counterpart Anticevic predicted in her amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17599	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you, he didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 102, also from the respected representative Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17600	It is also not accepted, given the suggestion that no amendment should be explained, since the MPs are not present, I will not explain.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17601	Yeah. Who's up for that amendment? Thank you, he didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 103, also representing Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17602	He doesn't accept it either.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17603	Who's up for that amendment? Thank you, he didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 104, also representing Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17604	It's not accepted either.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17605	Who's in? Thank you, he didn't get the necessary majority. 105th, also the same MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17606	It's unacceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17607	Who's in? He didn't get the necessary majority. 106. also MPs Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17608	This is the last amendment related to corruption and organised crime, where we have predicted greater amounts than are proposed in the amendment and therefore we do not accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17609	Who's up for that amendment? Thank you, he didn't get the necessary majority. 107th Amendment of Honored Representative Milanka Opačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17610	That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17611	I'm sorry. Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17612	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. The 107th Honored MP Opačić's amendment is not accepted, because 41% of the funds are spent for the first six months and we believe that the estimated funds will be sufficient by the end of the year.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17613	Dear representative Milanka Opačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17614	So since in the budget itself, at the very beginning when we were making the budget, the funds were reduced compared to last year, you also know that for several years in this assembly, the Ombudsman had warned that he did not even have postage stamps that he had many problems and that he had to be forced into donations from foreign countries. Well, here I am going to ask for a vote on this amendment, and I'm not sure that this money is enough for him, regardless of what he's spent only 41% so far. If that's the case, it'll be good, because I think it's important for the attorney general, so it'll be good if he's covered with this money somewhere by the end of the year. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17615	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you, he didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 108 of the Honored Representative Milanka Opačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17616	The government does not accept, although looking at a realistic amendment like this would be difficult to refuse, but since only 22.64% of the funds are spent for the first six months simply there is no chance of being spent by the end of the year. I don't think it's necessary to balance them, if they won't be spent for sure.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17617	Dear representative Milanka Opačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17618	I'd like to say that this is a new institution, that it's a single office that's just being formed now, that it's an office where experts are now being admitted somewhere. So I wouldn't agree with you if this was now that you've spent only 20 and some indication that we have enough money. So they're a new office, and I think that according to what I've been able to see, they're going to be short of money, and I'm afraid that's exactly where they're going to have to go to the Republic of Croatia, so this is one office where they can hardly pull some parallels with the previous year, and I think these funds should have stayed. These funds don't mean much to you in the state budget, and I think they're gonna miss them anyway. That's why I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17619	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment No 109, also respected MP Milanka Opačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17620	Thank you very much, Mr. President. For the first six months, 16.63% was spent, and I think that these 2 million funds that are scheduled for the budget will be sufficient because I say only a little over 300 thousand kuna was spent for the first six months. So, basically by the end of the year, there's almost a million and 600 and a few thousand kunas left, which I don't think there's any way to spend by the end of the year with normal rational behavior.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17621	Dear representative Milanka Opačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17622	Well, the story's about the same as this child counsel. It is, therefore, a completely new office that went with a few delays in relation to the children’s defenders. Thus, the team at the prosecutor’s office for gender equality could no longer spend their money on some projects because it only now seems to me that some twenty days ago and hired a number of people to start working. And as for this low use of funds in the first six months, then it could indeed reduce the resources of some others on other items that have spent zero kuna over the past six months and are projects that have been in the state budget for years, so they should only continue. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17623	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. And the last 110th Amendment of Honored Representatives Mate Arlovic and Mate Gavran.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17624	Therefore, the government does not accept for reasons why, according to the State Geodetic Authority, the activities and activities of the agricultural land registration in the possession of the Republic of Croatia during 2004 will be carried out through the cooperation of the State Geodetic Administration of the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry and Water Economy, which they have provided at the position of P1483 land planning programme 15 million kuna for the activities in question.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17625	Honorable representative Mato Raven.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17626	I have a little different information from you, Mr. Minister. It is pleasant to hear of course such information, but I know of the area of Brod-Posavina County and of some others that there is not enough money for this purpose. According to current principles, about 1/3 of the money is part of the State Geodetic Authority, the rest are given by units of local or regional self-government, and it is almost impossible that this position, as well as the total division of the State Geodetic Administration, is reduced by 15 million kuna or this division by some 70 thousand kuna. I'll remind you, the secretary in the budget has promised that there will be enough funding, regardless of the budget's scarce position, obviously the money doesn't have enough. With respect to what you have elaborated, I am still asking for an increase in funds or asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17627	Who's for this amendment please? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Thank you, Minister. Amendments submitted by respected representatives of Željko Pavlic under regular number 25 at the Proposal for Amendments and Supplements of the State Budget, the IDS Representatives Club under regular number 58 and 68 to 86 and the representative of Ante Markov under regular number 87 do not comply with Article 31. The budget law, so we can't even be obvious about it. I am voting on the amendment and addition of the State budget. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Restraint? Thank you. I find that, with 78 votes to 42 against and 3, it is abstentions that amendments and additions to the 2004 State budget were adopted in the text as proposed by the Government together with the government's amendments adopted. In accordance with Article 24. I am giving the budget law to the vote of the Decision on granting consent to the amendments and additions to the 2004 Financial Plan of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Restraint? Thank you. I find that with 79 votes in favour, 42 against and 3 abstentions, the proposed decision has been made. In accordance with Article 24. I am giving the budget law to the vote of the Decision on granting consent to the amendments and additions to the 2004 Financial Plan of the Croatian Employment Institute. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Restraint? Thank you. I find that with 80 votes to 41 against and 3 abstentions, the proposed decision has been made. In accordance with the proposal of the Legislative Committee, I am voting on the following conclusion: - The Professional Service of the Croatian Parliament is hereby authorised to carry out a revision of the text of amendments and additions to the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2004 before its publication in the National Journal. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Restraint? I find that with 120 votes in favour, 1 against and 3 abstentions, the proposed conclusion has been reached.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17630	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. It was very short, given that Article 3 had already been discussed today during the debate on the Budget, so let me just have a few details. Overall, the loans granted so far for the task of local self-government units are 216 million kuna, and why such a proposal to reduce the possibility of borrowing units of local self-government from 3% to 2% of total revenues for the simple reason why the forced yet-and processed demands by the end of the year will be sufficient. Because all the requirements that will be under way in the 10th month are no longer relevant to this year, while the work that will be carried out next year, thus assessing that this decision will challenge the development of local self-government units for a simple reason, according to the incoming requirements of local self-government units, will not stand. We can also make a decision that I don't know how much someone can be in charge, but if someone in the government hasn't filed a request by 7 months for a request for a post, and we know which all of the procedures must go through a request for the borrowing of units of local self-government, given that they come on vacation and that practically this week and next week are the last weeks when city councils and county councils will be held, so if they could make the decisions on borrowing it is logical that then before 9, 10 months will not arrive new requirements for borrowing, and then after that, the call for tenders. These are the simple costs that will take place in 2005. So much for the government's strong accusations that we will thus slow down the development of local self-government units. However, it is always necessary to discuss, on the basis of concrete data and even has one unit of local self-government that has taken the decision in charge, however, not even 40% of the decision can be owed in accordance with the Budget Act. According to this decision, the borrowing of local self-government units could be around 275, 280 thousand, million kuna. So far, total consent has been issued to local, pardoned units of local self-government for 216 million kuna. It shall also be prescribed to adopt a Decision on the redistribution of funds between budgetary users in the event of the establishment of a body of the state authority, i.e. an increase or reduction of their work. There is also the possibility for the Government to make certain redistributions of funds, and these are the second all technical changes based on the Proposal for a Budget where it can also be seen to increase the funds of the guaranteed stock by 220 million kuna. We said why. Therefore, a reduction of the principal is envisaged and the deficit reduction is projected in relation to the proposed original budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17631	Thank you very much. Does the work body reporter want it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the SDP Club, respected representative Dragica Zgrebec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17632	Mr. President, Ministers and Associates, colleagues and colleagues! In the beginning, let me say that the SDP Representatives Club is not going to accept this proposed law. In line with the fact that we will not accept any changes and additions to the 2004 budget. There are two reasons why we cannot accept these amendments and additions to the Law on the Implementation of the State Budget. I will not refer to Articles 1, 2 and 4 and 5 because they actually refer to the changes made in the State budget itself. But we oppose such Articles 3 and 7 with the addition of Article 40a. It is therefore regulated by Articles 100, 104, 105 and 106 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Budget law. Article 105 states that the unit of local and regional self-government can only be in charge in the long term of an investment invested from its budget, which is confirmed by its representative body, with the prior consent of the Government and later on, as to how this is carried out. While Article 106 states that the total annual commitment of the units of local and regional self-government referred to in Article 104 of this Act may be up to 20% of the revenue achieved in the year preceding the year in which it is due. Article 3 and the existing not only of these amendments, this autonomy is in fact a violation of local self-government, because it counts for the possibility of borrowing all units of local and regional or regional self-government while the Budget Act takes them on an autonomous or individual basis. We also think that reducing the possibility of borrowing by 1/3, regardless of what the minister has told us here now, it seems to us that this is not good, and if it is such a situation that there is no more demand there is no difference, the reason for this to be reduced. There's no reason, because it won't be realised by you. However, the second situation is as regards Article 7 where, in addition to Article 40, which was also not acceptable for us when this Law was adopted, because the possibility of postponing taxes is reintroduced, Article 40a is now added, which we also propose to delete from this proposal because it empowers the Government to re-schedul funds between the items intended for wages, material expenditure, subsidies, aid and the acquisition of non-financial assets under the budget without limitation. And since these items, if summed up, cover the largest part of the budget expenditure, they pay about 1 third of the total budget expenditure relating to therefore material costs which also have a high share in the total budget. At that time, the government could use this provision of the law to completely change the expensive budget voted by the Croatian Parliament. I'm hoping you'll pruning Minister Shucker this amendment of ours. Because you have spent the entire time in this part of your term as minister advocated that every major change in the state budget is being decided by the Croatian Parliament and the government is merely a proposer. So these are the reasons why we won't accept this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17633	Thank you. On behalf of the HD Club for the Honorable Representative of the Arthrial Shima.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17634	The technical instrument for the implementation of the budget is called the Law on the implementation of the auctionary budget. It normally contains almost the same elements it had previously contained. According to the table, this amendment is also accompanied by a revision of the budget rebalancing which will be worth the rest of the year, on the occasion of the adoption of the budget for the next quarter, a new debate on the new situation. The possible objections, which mostly relate most to the reduction in debt by one point per cent as we have commented and we always repeat the same story, but it doesn't matter. I don't think I can stop for the reasons we heard the rights last year, now used. Finally, consolidation is widely possible at the end of the year, and in this residual period, the two percent will be quite enough. There's something else about hiding that's basically big and using funds at the expense of the little ones. So the small units of local self-government are generally more subpriorial, and then what happens is that it will eventually need to regulate that part in future time. So we support and there's nothing controversial about it. And the government, within its approved positions, is at the end of the year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17635	Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the implementation of the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2004, second reading, P.Z. No. 135. The debate on the text of the law is over. We have the same situation with the government's amendments that were delivered after the deadline. I am voting on whether or not to debate and vote on the amendments of the Government in accordance with Article 163. There's one amendment. Who's up for it? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? I find that the 79-seat parliament has accepted, 43 against and 3 abstentions to discuss the government's amendments. I beg the Minister, on the amendment to the Government, I ask Minister Shucker to explain the amendment to the Government.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17636	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. The government proposes an amendment to the Law on the Implementation of the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2004 in Article 5(1) instead of a sum of 318 million 86 thousand 911 kuna to put a sum of 293 million 444 thousand and 297 kuna. The reason for this change is a million and 400 thousand kuna, a million and 400 thousand and 614 kuna increase in the budget for the Constitutional Court.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17637	I'm opening a debate. Just before the vote, shortly before the parliament voted in favour of the majority of votes that I would open a debate on this amendment. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on this amendment to the government. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? I find that with 119 votes in favour, 1 against and 6 abstentions, the government's amendment has been adopted. The amendment of the Honorable Representative, Dragica Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17638	The government does not accept for the reasons that for these 6 months, permission has been granted to local self-government units for a total debt of 216 million kuna and 4 units of local self-government for the total amount of 14 million kuna are under the procedure. Since virtually after this week neither the County Assembly nor the City or Municipal Council will meet anymore, those who will request it within 10 months are projects that will begin to be implemented in 2005. And we think that these funds that are going to be somewhere in the amount of 280, 276 million kuna will be enough for local self-government units. I would like to point out that in 2003 there was practically a ban on borrowing units of local self-government I would also like to say, and I also mentioned this in the opening argument about amending the budget that units of local self-government are participating in this year with 600 million kuna, which has not been the case so far. Therefore, out of these 600 million kunas, the central government deficit has been reduced, and this is also one of the reasons why both the central government deficit and the local self-government deficit are being controlled. Because I repeat for the first time in the general consolidated state deficit is the deficit of the local self-government unit.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17639	Thank you very much. This is the first amendment to Article 3 that the minister was manifested about. Dear Representative Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17640	In this article, this article refers to a reduction in the capacity of local self-government and regional self-government and reduces the percentage from 3% to 2% of total revenues from local and regional self-government. However, this article is contrary to the provisions of the Budget Law which regulates the way and the possibilities of borrowing to its Articles 104 to 109. If this is true, Minister, which you say won't be over 2% of the debt amount, then there's no reason to change this 3% limit since you claim it won't be realised by 2%. Otherwise, I think that, as regulated by the Law on the Implementation of the State Budget, I say what is contrary to the provisions of the Budget Law is actually being affected by the autonomy of local and regional self-government, because according to the Budget Law, it is seen that the possibility of debt or guarantee is determined individually depending on the incomes of each individual unit of local self-government or regional self-government. And please vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17641	I can't ring a bell when someone's talking because it's not being recorded. So please! For this amendment, who is the First Honored Representative, Dragica Zgrebec? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. In accordance with Article 7 of the amendment of the honourable MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17642	The government cannot accept this amendment for the simple reason that in the previous adopted budget rebalancing position of the Ministry of Finance is a foreseeable position for salaries, so if a particular ministry during the year appears shortfall in the funds for salaries from that position from the Ministry of Finance will be offset. If this amendment were to be adopted, we would not be able to fulfil the commitments provided for in the budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17643	Dear representative Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17644	In fact, what Minister Schuker says is incorrect, namely, the new Article 40a is authorised by the Government to re-supply on a proposal from the Ministry of Finance the funds between the items, not only for wages but also for material expenditure, for subsidies, for aid and for the acquisition of non-financial assets under the budget and without restrictions. Since these items cover most of the budget, e.g. The government can actually completely change the state budget voted by the Croatian Parliament. I would ask you, Mr Shuker, or Minister Shuker, to accept this amendment, because you have advocated here in the House as a minister, both as a representative and as a minister, that each, every, every, every change, budget of the debate and vote in the Assembly... You intended for the former government to change items to, for example, Croatia's plans, Croatian highways, which is far less funds [[/The intruder doesn't understand.]] But what you suggest is that you can work in the Budget, and your colleagues and fellow MPs hope that we will not give up our obligation to discuss the Budget and make decisions in the Budget. [[Intruder: It's not that.]] We don't transfer that kind of intelligence to the government. And please let us vote on this.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17645	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. The amendment of the respected representative, Zgrebec, which was not accepted, is the same content as the previous amendment of the respected representative Dragica Zgrebec, and we do not vote on the amendment accordingly. 169, paragraph 6. Mršić. 169, paragraph 6. The rules of procedure of this house. I am voting on the final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the implementation of the State budget. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? I find that, with 78 votes for, 48 against and 3 abstentions, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the implementation of the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2004 was adopted in the text as proposed by the Government together with the amendments adopted. Thank you very much. Deputy Vice-President Mato Arlovic probably gave up the debate. I'm closing the debate. According to the party deal. - Final bill amending and supplementing the criminal law, second reading. P.Z. No. 88; The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. In the adoption of this Act, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the Law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committees on Law, Justice, Information, Information and Media. You received the reports at the session. I would like the State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice, Snjezana Bagic, to further explain the proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17647	Thank you, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Allow me only briefly and in importance to say something about amendments and additions to the final predicate law on criminal proceedings. As you are familiar with the debate recently held on the draft law amending ai amendments to this law on 5 June. And the government of the Republic of Croatia has proposed, for five essential reasons, amendments and additions to the act of law. Let me just once again point out and specify and it is proposed to amend and supplement the criminal law, in order for the text of the law to be offset by the international legal obligations of the Republic of Croatia and with the Achicomiter i.e. the legal property of the European Union. For example, the Rome Statute of International Criminal Law, then the Criminal Convention on Corruption, then the Convention on the Prevention of Terrorist Financing, and the harmonisation of our obligations stemming from the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. So in these amendments and additions to the law, there are some new criminal acts that, for example, relate to computer crime. Another reason why the government is proposing amendments and additions to criminal law is that one further ruling and debate on the relationship of one fundamental value is that of freedom of the media and criminal judicial repression for violation of honor and reputation. You are all witnessing that it is often debated whether a criminal offence should be fully decriminalised if it has been committed through means of public communication. In its proposal, the Government of the Republic of Croatia makes, at least according to the applicant's assessment, the Government as a Proposer, an important step has been made here, because the provision of Article 48 which speaks of the responsibility of the principal administrator for the work was committed through means of public communication. It has also changed some of the criminal acts of Article 203 relating to the absence of a criminal offence, the Clavets or insults if it has been committed through means of public communication by saying that such an act can only exist if the manner of expression and circumstances clearly results in the conduct that had been targeted exclusively and only harm honor or in view of a particular person. And according to the Government of the Republic of Croatia, we are, in fact, approaching the European standoffs on the balance between freedom of the media on the one hand, and on the other, accountability, even if it is committed through means of public communication, in order to protect someone's privacy, dignity of honor and reputation. The third reason is that if the issue of criminalising the criminalisation of drug abuse, one issue that has long been passed requires or does not need to be decriminalized. The government of the Republic of Croatia has also left the possession of intoxicating drugs independently of which the amount is being committed as a criminal offence, so that the death and risk of possession of any drug would be sudden. Leaving it to the court of law that, depending on the circumstances of a particular case, the punishment I consider to be an example and adequate for these offences. The fourth reason was the verdict on the criminal political justification of interventions in the criminal part of the so-called crime. economic crime. During the debate in the first reading, there were a lot of assessments and remarks that the Government of the Republic of Croatia, in particular when it comes to these criminal acts, did not go wide enough, sufficiently harshly by the Government of the Republic of Croatia in accordance with international legal obligations on the one hand and those necessary changes, proposed two new criminal acts, receiving and giving bribes in economic business, leaving for the second stage more significant, further changes in particular in this area, economic crime. And finally the fifth is still that change concerns those essential changes where practice already has a harmonised view of additional repression or regulation of new forms of criminal offences. I mean, in particular, the kidnapping crime. If any, the result of the loss of a kidnapped person's life. There is also an increased penalty in the crime of pornography as b and coincided with human trafficking. And two crimes have been introduced, recognising precisely their social danger and damage to the environment and protecting social values. And these are crimes of illegal construction and illegal expropriation of ore of treasure. It is worth noting that during the first reading it was said that only this real phase and the dragon and the addition of the law necessary for which it is not necessary to carry out a thorough scientific, professional and criminal political assessment and judgment. The second phase will therefore be followed by other changes after a thorough analysis and a recording of the situation is carried out. And that's just in the course of that analysis. Therefore, in the autumn, a new text is expected to amend and supplement the criminal law which will aim and aim at this deeper and greater procedure in criminal law. As regards the amendments to the tex of the law in relation to the proposal for a law which was first read by the Government of the Republic of Croatia as the legislator of the law, it accepted all the comments and suggestions that improve the text, of course improving it no-technically explicitly or in terms of clarification. Likewise, both the proposals of individual representatives or the parliamentary committees and the expert further discussion of the final proposal of the law have been prescribed and envisaged in relation to the draft law two new criminal offences, which is a criminal offence of child pornography on the computer system or network where a sentence of one ten years in prison is foreseen, and which is also in line with the Convention on Cybercrime. The article 223 relating to cybercrime has also been refurbished and covered in relation to the bill of today's most widespread groups of computer abuses, etc. DOS attacks or so-called SPAM attacks, or unwanted mail, therefore, did not seem to be possible until recently due to tense technology. The work of illegal illegal construction has been clarified in accordance with the remarks so that today, at least at the assessment of the Government as a proposer, at least even better in a explicit sense, highlights the objective and purpose of achieving its regulation. Another new criminal offence has also been imposed, and this is a criminal offence to help the perpetrator of a criminal offence against... protected by international law sanctioning persons who provide assistance to the perpetrators of terrorist offences, hide them and make their detection or arrest more difficult. Likewise, they are crimes against international law, and so on. Article 18(2) is amended as follows: the new Article 157a of the Penal Code provides that the criminal offence does not go out of date. In relation to the other comments as I have already stated and stated, the applicant did not reject or refuse to consider any other proposals and suggestions made during the first reading on the text of amendments and additions to the Penal Code. They will all be further considered and taken into account when drawing up the second phase of the Penal Code, which aims to further elaborate criminal repression and relations, those necessary relationships between potentially linear and general punishment, change of limitation or further incrimination of certain unwanted, illegal, criminal behaviour. Thank you, Mr. President. Thank you for your attention. So brief and important on the final proposal to amend and supplement the Penal Code. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17648	Thank you very much. Does the committee's reporters want to see it? The Honorable Representative, Chairman of the Justice Committee, Rade Ivas. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17649	Mr. President, representatives of the government. At the 8th session held on 12 July 2004, the Croatian Judicial Committee discussed the final draft law amending and supplementing the Penal Code, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the President of the Croatian Parliament by an act of 8 July 2004. The Committee discussed the law in question on the basis of its competence under Article 73. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament as a parent working body. The Proposer's introductory representative pointed out that the final legislative proposal harmonizes the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with the legislation of the European Union. In short, he referred to the differences between the solutions proposed by the final proposal in relation to the text of the bill. In the debate, most members supported the proposed legislative solutions, but the individual opinion of the Committee member was vacatio legis... as it is a matter of significant changes to the criminal legislation to be met by citizens and the general public. He therefore proposes that the government consider amending the provision until the entry into force of the law and foresees a selective approach, in particular for new offences, or that this law enters into force on 1 January 2005. After the discussion was held, the Committee on Justice with 8 votes in favour and one abstention decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament the following conclusion: The Law amending and supplementing the Penal Code should be adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17650	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. SDP club, respected representative Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17651	Thank you, Mr. President. Respected secretary of state with assistant, co-workers and colleagues. Here in this final proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Penal Code, the Proposer has nevertheless made improvements in terms of new very important incriminations. But only partially and insufficiently, it seems only on two occasions, in those cases of which the media has written. Of course, and because of such behaviour of the promoter, it is the impression that the government is acting only on some of the pressures on the outside, whether on the inside or on the inside, and it is further gaining the impression that then the government's policy against the prevention of the fight against crime in general, against all forms of crime, which undoubtedly the Penal Code should bear witness, that in that case it is no longer an expression of some rational policy but rather an expression of a frightened order, and that is not good. However, to praise it is certainly that the government has almost copied it, but it does not matter, it certainly incriminates the perpetrator's help and those crimes protected by international law. It's something that was very necessary to even be complete along with the incrimination of preparatory actions. However, there is really no need for this explanation, the government's explanation when it says it has just done so on its own request as a new article. So to remove any suspicion that this is what the SDP representative club has proposed. It was then necessary to do so if she was already deaf, dumb and blind to such an incentive or request then it was necessary to stop from her own initiatives because no one is acting on its own request but on its own initiatives, however, this is less important. What is being resented by this final proposal essentially remains as are those of our original observations, so that there was no need for the government here to explain why it did not act, that there was a need for specific research, statistics, etc. At the SDP club, we resent the government, the promoter, why it did not go into further changes, why it did not predict the express norms, something that is so obvious and which bothers our public, and which in some way also inhibits our judicial authorities in order to meet a legitimate public demand. There are numerous cases where the court does not take advantage of property. Therefore, with one neutral norm that we have so far in our Penal Code, it was necessary to do an imperial norm, the court would take away property benefits, then it would be an imperative norm from which the court could not escape by justifying itself that it complicated the procedure and refering itself to the damage to the case. However, the basic observation is that this proposal, the final proposal of the law, does not contain what was most valuable in the earlier proposal which also experienced the form of the law, but was abolished by the Constitutional Court and therefore, better and more modern and more effective sanctioning, i.e. first incrimination of economic crime, which then allows for better and more effective sanctioning. Why is that so important? So the Croatian public is constantly wondering why the Croatian judiciary, despite this definition of public and everyone's tail, is above all privatising criminality. It is simply because so far the law, what we wanted to change and try in this law as a coalition authority, is precisely that the current Croatian Penal Code still defines economic crime by the criteria in essence that were applicable to the former SFRY. We've still made this little distance, needing those most necessary changes. Because they did not exist and today there are no explicit criminal provisions for acts that have been committed specifically in this economic crime to the detriment of the believers. Because it was just privatisation as something new that hit us in the 1990s that produced a completely new state to which it was necessary to respond adequately then and to criminal repression, in which today's creditors and debtors generally oppose entirely different ownership interests. Also, there can be no longer a conflict of interest between individuals and businesses where permanent defendants before the court, accused of economic crime, are hiding behind companies that are also their private owner. As a matter of fact, economic crime is also a part of such acts of intentional violation of mandatory property rights for the purpose of seeking unlawful benefit for the debtor and his related interests, and to the detriment of the credentials some reverse case can happen. And that's exactly what we need, that's what every citizen on the road knows, but there's a government that needs statistical, professional examinations, a year maybe two, when there's dust out of date and what's possible to sanction. So, with careful reference to the phenomena of privatisation crime everywhere, we find it hard to explain to citizens why they are not sanctioned by those suppliers, creditors where, which is just done to those creditors, these suppliers, these creditors, tax collectors, employees, or often even the state itself. Because she couldn't charge those sold-out equity shares. In fact, the government needs to be guided by the incrimination of these types of crimes, who does not protect the believer that protects exactly not even private property. And how much of these people's interests in the Croatian legal system are really marginalized we could tell the last hole in the play, which we simply cannot explain to the citizens. Cases testify and even their shortfalls in bankruptcy. There were cases just when the bankruptcy managers transferred the assets of the debtor without compensation to other companies established by the owner of the original debtor. Let us recall the situation where today's government, then the opposition, objected and opposed the proposal of the Penal Code precisely because of disagreements with the decriminalization of drug possession. Here, now is the occasion, but now this testifies, just this final proposal where we don't have this kind of incrimination testifying that it wasn't the reason. That it was only one cover behind which then the opposition, and the current government was hiding. Because now you can, now it's a chance to do it, and to leave out what, that's what was the biggest fight, or at least it was the way you claimed at the time, that you couldn't give a vote for that law, precisely because of the incrimination, or the decriminalization of drug possession. And that's what I mean is the greatest lack of this final bill. That's why we have, like, one improvement in defining certain concepts, but with a criminal organization, what's most important is lagging behind again. That criminal organisations, that their ultimate goal is, at the end of the day, not only to gain certain property benefits, but also to continue to master economic and economic flows of the country and even foreign countries, because we often know that these criminal organisations are connected, that they do not know the borders. But it's not there. There is no better sanctioning nor those who remain, who are deprived of life, precisely because they were obliged to expose their lives by performing their work such as police officers, therefore, regular authority, as well as judicial officials involved in the process of detecting and sanctioning these most serious crimes. That's why it took such a person to protect their lives with maximum punishment, but that's gone. In the SDP Club, we also object to this proposal, which did not provide adequate penalties for physical injuries that are too mild and what is very important, there is no protection of workers' rights. Disbursement of workers' salaries was to become a criminal offence, however, the government dismissed this by deeming workers to be protected, or their right, and the fact that they were not able to demand it in a different way. However, such as the failure to pay dues to uphold a criminal offence, it is also true that there is no criminal offence even more devastating would be the charges of abstention. So this was one straw of salvation, so then, to dissipate a litigation which is always more burdened than criminally. And this was one preventative excellent mechanism for the workers to be paid. After all, it is also in the interest of the state because then of course there will be fewer social cases. Because often these workers because they have not received their due compensation, their earned wages fall on the burden of the state. And this wasn't much of an effort to do. It is also a pity that the government has given up, has made some improvements in discrimination, incriminate them, but a new act of excelling fascist, nationalist and other totalitarian states and ideology or promoting racism and xenophobia has been needed as a special criminal offence. In the end, a consensus was reached on that in this House. Certainly to praise the government's incorporated here, therefore, almost identical to what the former government did, command responsibility. It has been defined, we already know, by Professor Novoselec and we welcome what the Government has done and what has made a significant leap in its thinking of such an necessity that we have in our own criminal legislation and that is certainly, I say, significant progress since when spoken, not Croatia can accept these charges and we cannot act under command responsibility. I'm not going to tell anyone who said all that right now, that's what the current ministers said. Here's specifically, Minister Jadranka Kosor. I would once again like to conclude that no country, no country, has delivered its famous warriors who are a symbol of victory, and if it is tried by the commander of the victorious army who defended it, then no doubt it is tried for that country, and for that people, etc. She doesn't know how she's going to explain it to her children, but the children must have grown up, so it's easier for them to explain that commanding responsibility is needed for our own sake that we have in our own Penal Code. Human trafficking and slavery, this is good, it's good that the government sanctioned it. First of all, it's incriminate, very precise, but it's a great shame and I appeal once again, this isn't about any competition now, but it can't be dropped exactly as a particularly qualified environment for the destruction of personal documents, especially the homeland, passports, because it's exactly the kind of person, such an act, and it's usually women and even children, but mostly women being held in a slave position. And then they were also thrown out by sexual harassment, sexual abuse, etc. Therefore, this as a qualifying environment should be included in this criminal act and it is not enough to regulate it with acquisition because then you do not have the necessary weight of this crime, because this work gives the necessary weight. I think that this, as the government suggests in the crimes of insults and slanders, especially public slanders, is not a good solution, is not really the systematic solution that Croatia needs, which is that it distinguishes the common slander from the imagination, so those who do not know particularly in the public whether it is true or not, and from the intentional and malicious ones for which, in particular, those who deal with public affairs here in particular, should be decriminalised, and for this to predict what the case law itself is going on, therefore, foresees an exclusive penalty for which there are no normative or dogmatic obstacles. It is a pity that the government does not lift the criminal act of subscribing to others or transferring them to another to commit a criminal offence because, even if media freedom is wanted, journalists are the only ones who are hit by this crime and a whole series of proceedings are being conducted precisely because of this crime. It's a shame they're not better protected children, child-absorbing or minors, and equally extramarital life with children. I would also like to point out that it is good that the government has specifically sanctioned child pornography but it is quite illogical to meet children with the pornographic content itself remains neglected where the sentence of prison is subordinated to just one year. The children are just, children should be protected, children will not look at this pornographic material but children are traumatized by the act when they are taken and when they are filmed and therefore are scheduled for a shameful year, it is not even therefore the courts have to.... but they are giving a mild conditional penalty, so I think that the SDP club is in any case going to behave responsibly these are the necessary changes, he will vote for this Final Bill proposal but continues to express great regret why the government did not have the courage and determination to go to bold changes for which the time or time has already been and the past. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17652	Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the respected representative Krunoslav Markovnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17653	Thank you, Mr. President, here's the incorrect assumption that the government only changes laws when under pressure. You probably weren't under pressure, so you didn't change the laws so it happened after a spectacular arrest so-called. The criminal organizations followed a spectacular release. Whether it's because of the lack of law or maybe you've been under pressure, I don't know.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17654	On behalf of the HNS Club, PGS respected representative Nikola Buljanic. There's no losing him club right to the word. On behalf of the HSS Club, respected representative Josip Vresk. On behalf of the HNS Club, PGS respected representative Nikola Buljanic. There's no losing him club right to the word. On behalf of the HSS Club, respected representative Josip Vresk.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17656	Mr. President, Madam Secretary of State, Mr. Assistant Minister, colleagues and fellow MPs. Indeed, it is a little unusual time for us to discuss such important matter at this time as the criminal law he at least deserved to discuss it all day and when I was talking about when the law was in the first reading, when it wasn't the final proposal then I said that this matter deserved to pass a new Penal Code in view of all those novels that the existing Penal Code had experienced over the last few years. I said that then and I will repeat it and now that there were three ways to take care of this material of criminal law or new criminal law there was the possibility that these 6 conventions and one of these Roman statutes would be passed into our legislation there was another variant that, with that part simply, the Government would propose to the Croatian Parliament and new criminal acts that she thought were urgent to prescribe at this time and became the third perhaps best option to pass the new Penal Code, I think that would be much better. Of course, the Club of the Croatian Peasant Party, especially because of international convention law and the provisions of the Roman Statute, will support this Law because we feel that it is simply necessary to vote for such a law with several objections to the Government of the Republic of Croatia. There is, of course, a change from the draft law which is insignificant and most of it refers to the nomotechnical editing of the text and I must say that this text is nomotechnically much better than the text of the Law in the first reading. However, some things remain and just hurt my eyes when we personally see that there are still some provisions that we have suggested that the Government or the Proposer prepare them for another reading in a different form or at least to put some provisions outside the text, first of all I mean that the famous illegal construction referred to in Article 252 and, in particular, I will not propose any club or amendments, because we believe that if the threat that remains in the law remains a small effect, let it remain but we do not consider that it is appropriate that illegal construction is prescribed as a criminal act, and in particular not that all illegal construction is declared as a criminal act, namely, I would still be able to understand paragraph 2 of Article 252. It's going to lead to the first thing that we're going to do is load the courts with one larger number of cases, that's the first problem. The other problem is that you know that two parallel proceedings will be conducted, there will be further proceedings before the authorities of the administrative authority either to remove these objects or to the infringement part if there is no or later criminal proceedings but in any case I assure you, ladies and gentlemen of the representatives, I assure you, Madam Secretary of State, that each of them will have a careful reference in that administrative procedure stop the proceedings, that they will do nothing on the file and that nothing will happen to anyone as long as the prosecution takes place. However, I will repeat what I said just before if the effect of this threat is achieved then we will vote for it. The other thing I'm trying to say is that by prescribing illegal construction as a criminal offence nothing will happen to those who have so far built this law can't work back then, it wasn't prescribed as a criminal offence and nothing will happen to them and in the end we have witnessed in recent days that the authorities can function quite well when they will, and when they are ready and without being prescribed as a criminal offence. We will, of course, agree with the amendments of the SDP Club, think that it is more difficult to sanction criminal acts especially in the area of corruption, a more appropriate moment, and that we still need much more punishment than the Government has suggested, and we will support these amendments. I will repeat that we have not proposed amendments, believing that, if a small effect is achieved, it will be a vote, which is why it is not good that it has prescribed it as a criminal act. The HSS club will vote in favour of this bill, believing it would still be better if the government had prepared the whole new Penal Code. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17657	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Honored Representative Drazen Bosnjakovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17658	Mr. President, Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. We are pleased that the Ministry of Justice of the Government has given us another quality, good law, because it gives us hope that the situation in the judiciary could really improve, we have already had the law in regular courts, we have the Law on Land Books, we have the Law on interest that reflects the same on the judiciary, today we have amendments to the Criminal Law and they are all good laws and all this gives one real hope and encouragement that the situation will be improved. As far as this law is concerned, the objective of the law is to comply with our criminal legislation with European Union legislation, and most of the change relates to the enforcement of obligations undertaken under various international conventions, Stabilisation and Association Agreements with the European Union, and we have taken the obligation to co-operate with the prevention and prevention of criminal and other activities, in particular in relation to the prevention, control of illegal migration, the prevention of money laundering and income acquired by criminal parts, illegal production and trafficking of drugs, trafficking in human beings, corruption, counterfeiting of money, smuggling, illicit trafficking in arms and terrorism. That is why, by applying and harmonising our Law with the signature and international conventions, we see new criminal acts being introduced in our criminal legislation. We see that certain descriptions of the existing part are precise and also harmonize with international conventions, which is good and contributes to the quality of the law. We also have a Convention on Hibernetical Crime where a new piece, computer counterfeiting and computer fraud has been introduced. Also the Convention on Corruption, where we now have two new parts, taking bribes in economic business and giving bribes in economic business. Parts of certain precision have also been introduced, in fact, in the descriptions of existing criminal acts, where we also come into compliance with acts and international conventions. The Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and the Dignity of a Human Being has the consequence of introducing a criminal act of cloning a human being. When we look at all this, we see that the development of technology, that the development of science, in addition to all the good it brings, brings certain negative phenomena to which we as states react to these amendments to criminal legislation. This law also introduces two new criminal acts, jury construction and illegal exploitation of the mine treasure. This measure should contribute to the determination of government measures related to anti-zonal construction, which has indeed taken a major turn, and which this government obviously wants to calculate to the end and prevent such occurrences from happening. The provisions of Article 48 of Article 203 on media freedoms in the Government's proposal for legislation have also been amended, the provision of Article 48 is deleted, meaning the responsibility of the editor-in-chief, and Article 203 is slightly better formulated and we are now de facto coming to the conclusion that the State's attorney, i.e. the prosecutor, must prove whether or not the journalist has committed the criminal act, or in fact or does not have to prove that guilt. As regards these changes to the first reading, as the Club we welcome Article 26 and that criminal act that introduces child pornography on the computer system or network, because it is indeed a very sensitive area and I think it is a good thing that this criminal act is introduced. But what I'd like to say is, I don't think it's a matter of neither legislation nor anything, but perhaps a slightly more severe criminal policy would come badly, because it seems to me that the existing frameworks in which criminal sanctions are imposed are not used enough and that for certain serious criminal acts, in fact, mild judgments are pronounced, I can say that personally a few days ago I was on the announcement of a criminal conviction, where the perpetrator committed the murder of a young man aged 21 years, from the evidence case, it was really thought out a long time ago, fired the first shot, wounded him, and so wounded him, and then the blind woman actually liquidated him, ended it. For such a criminal act, the perpetrator has received 11 years in prison, which means if he behaves well in prison here he is out there for 6 or 7 years and I think it's really very little, but it's not a problem with legislation, it's actually a problem more pronounced sanctions which has nothing to do with this. The Croatian Democratic Community club will support this law. We consider it professional, we consider it very competent and in fact this law means compliance with the acts of the international community, and that is what is absolutely necessary in our path to the European Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17659	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Ivo Josipovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17660	Your Honor, Mr. President. Not getting into those discussions that were supposed to, and it wasn't, we did it in the first reading. I would say that this law is one of those that are well and good-quality, of course, regardless of what certain provisions I might be happy to see in some other form, some would add, some take away. But it's not for discussion now. In any case, I strongly support that Croatian criminal law is in line with international criminal law, in particular with regard to the so-called international crimes. I also like the protection of children from pornography, and as an important and great news, and I congratulate the Government for accepting this suggestion, it is the introduction of preparation, preparation and compensation for the perpetrators of criminal acts against the values of protected international law. What I'd like to think about, here, is that I might still have to vote one of two days, that if the government is willing to think about it a little bit, it's the first profiling of this crime scene as it's called unauthorized construction. In fact, it's very wide-ranging, and when we look at what's considered a building, we might be in a position to be held accountable for every wall. And I warn that there will be accomplices in the crime scene as in any master who appears on such a site enters the grounds of the general criminal law institutes into the criminal zone. And I think you should think about one narrower approach to the crime scene. I've also given two short amendments, one to the statute of limitations in Article 24 of the Penal Code. In fact, it was introduced, or it was better defined as the government suggests not the obsolescence of these war crimes as we call them, but it was omitted so-called war crimes. Command responsibility. Namely, the the thesis under which the command responsibility is covered by the very lack of ageing of these basic parts stands, when Croatian legislation would have command responsibility as a form of guilt mainly or as a form of responsibility as it is in the Roman Statute. However, we did not do so, but we adapted ourselves to the traditions of continental European criminal law, so the release of that command responsibility from the list of non-obsorbing acts brings Croatian legislation into a certain conflict with international criminal law. My proposal is in the amendment to include the command responsibility in that Article 24. My second proposal concerns the definition of the criminal organisation of Article 89 paragraph 23. It is true that the government in its reasoning states that such a formulation proposed by Croatian legislation is in line with the UN Convention on Organized Crime. However, there are other crimes, so it is not only the goal of harmonising with one convention. There are other values and other crimes that should include the concept of a criminal organisation. In doing so, I think of various forms of potentially terrorism, in different forms, such as Arkan and his crew, are they not a criminal organization. The explanation under which the situation is covered by the criminal act of association in order to commit crimes against the values protected by international law or against the Republic of Croatia stands only in part. Why? Because the implications of the criminal organisation and the guilt of the perpetrators are certain procedural measures and I must say they bear a certain moral dimension which I do not think criminal law should be abandoned. That's exactly why I suggested that one change of which I don't think could be damage and that it could only be of benefit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17661	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Rade Ivas.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17662	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues! The reform of the judiciary is one of the main tasks of our government, creating a legislative framework and strengthening the institution to fight organised crime, corruption, war crimes, cybercrime, terrorism are the priorities of these governments. It encourages that we have received one quality material from the Government, and this gives hope that the situation in the judiciary will in due course change for the better and what is certainly necessary given our wishes and ambitions related to the accession of the European Union. Proposing amendments and additions to the Penal Code, the government believes it is developmental and justified to approach Croatian Penal Code in two stages. In the first phase, and what is actually contained in this final bill, the government carried out so-called "the law". the minimum criminal reform, limited only to those changes to the Croatian Penal Code which are necessary and urgent, primarily in order to comply with international obligations which do not require a thorough scientific, professional, practical and criminal political analysis of the judgment of their justification. And this part of the reform is considered urgent. The amendments proposed are also based on the following legal sources, the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court, the United Nations Convention against Transnational Organized Crime, Criminal and Legal Conventions on Corruption, the International Convention against Recruitment, Use, Payment and Training of Mercenaries, International Conventions on the Prevention of Financing of Terrorism, Cybercrime Conventions. In the second phase, which will follow immediately behind this first government programme, which highlighted its determination to ensure the necessary legal conditions for sanctioning criminal actions, defining economic organised crime, identifying responsibilities at all levels, will be able to analyse all earlier and more recent theoretical, practical and political proposals and reasons for changing criminal law, and decide which of them is and why it is necessary to propose. For example, this refers to the normative structure of economic crime, the complex issue of general linear respect for repression and the introduction of a life sentence, etc. By complying with the Penal Code with the Rome Statute, the Proposer has completed the provision of Article 158(1). The Penal Code and Article 157a. prescribed a new incriminating crime against humanity and in Article 167a. Command responsibility. Because of the importance of the crime against humanity, the promoter accepted comments from the debate and explicitly prescribed the unhappiness of these crimes. The Proposer also amended the definition of a criminal organisation in Article 89 paragraph 23. By harmonising with the United Nations Convention against Transnationally Organized Crime, the Penal Code complemented the provisions on the confiscation of property benefit in Article 82, amended the name, the essential features of the crime referred to in Article 175 so that it is a criminal act of trafficking in human beings and the establishment of slavery. In relation to computer crimes, the Proposer has re-arranged both the name and the essential features of the crime referred to in Article 223 and has prescribed new criminal offences to the computerised Article 223a. and computer fraud Article 224a. It is very important that it is because of the particular danger of the distribution of pornography through the computer network and especially the distribution of child pornography, which we pointed out during the debate in the first reading of the promoter in Article 197a. The final law was also prescribed by a new criminal act of child pornography on the computer system and network, and I think it's very good and commendable. In accordance with the commitments and criminal law conventions on corruption, the Proposer has also prescribed a new criminal offence for the reception of bribes in economic business and bribery in economic business. Article 97a He has prescribed a new criminal act against human beings cloning and all in order to comply with the additional protocol of the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and the Dignity of Human Beings. Also, the government did not accept the SDP's proposal to end the prison sentence for all acts against reputation and honor whether or not they were committed through the media or not, if it was not intended to slander. The abolition of the penalty for journalistic slander was not accepted by the Government for a purely reason that no European country did so because it was about protection and respect and honor as a basis for human rights and freedom. The government believes that the proposed changes and without abolishing the prison sentence have brought Croatian criminal law closer to international recommendations that defamation for the crime, media insults believe enough civil and legal responsibility to compensate for the damages. A new criminal offence has been introduced on the proposal of the Croatian Banking Association so that, in the criminal offence of forged documents in Article 313, in Article 313, in addition to the already existing documents, he added payment cards and other documents to which a cash-free payment is made. The fact is that security payments are increasingly being used and their counterfeiting is becoming increasingly frequent, so this proposal is considered justified. The promoter also did not accept the proposal to incriminate the greatness of fascist and other totalitarian states and organisations because he considers that this is sufficiently regulated in the article... Incriminations in relation to hate speech have been extended in Article 174(3) of the criminal act of racial and other discrimination in such a way that this incrimination now contains a ban on any form of incrimination. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And finally, perhaps one observation that this "vacatio legis" is really too short since it is a matter of substantial amendments to the law and a very serious law may need to extend this period of application to, say, 1 January 2005 as we have discussed in the Committee on Justice. And at the end of this presentation, colleagues and colleagues, I believe that by forming this final text of the law, the proposer took into account all the legitimate proposals that were made during the first reading as well as the conclusions of individual parliamentary committees and that the final text was amended and that I believe he would receive the support of most parliamentary deputies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17663	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Emil Tomljanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17664	Dear Mr. President, distinguished representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. Allow me to refer in short lines to the Final Proposal of the Penal Code. Since we really had a comprehensive debate in the context of the first reading and what the Government is this Final Proposal, in fact, these changes that we have in the final proposal further improved compared to the first reading of course. What I would like to point out, I would really just like to look back on those criticisms we heard in the first reading and in tonight's debate. The first of them was that the government actually in an inconspicuous way solved the problem of criminal legislation, which in itself and from the nature of the proposal, the final proposal actually cannot be accepted. Because not only the government, but the task force also argues and explains why it was approached in two stages. So, at this first stage, only those urgent amendments were made, harmonising with convention law, and in itself this proposal cannot be comprehensive, however, the second phase has been announced in terms of the final definition of this power of law, so given the right that I would seek not only to hope but I am convinced that the government and this working group at the head of criminal law experts and this proposal, that future regulation will also propose to the Croatian Parliament in such a quality way as we had the opportunity to see for this Law, therefore, in the first reading and now in the Final Proposal of Law. Another thing that I would like to emphasise in relation to those criticisms that we have had the opportunity to hear in relation to economic crime, privatisation and all that, negatively, or negative connotations about economic crime, privatisation in relation to the solutions set out in this Act. I repeat that criminal repression and in this area is primarily a matter of detecting, processing and sanctioning economic crime and the existing Criminal Code has a sufficient, sufficient framework for but in this particular way to be calculated with this form of crime and that the possible extension of limitation or perhaps new or specific criminal offences if they were to be included in criminal law, our criminal legislation, I am not sure and it would be very difficult to convince me that it would in itself result in some great effectiveness in terms of, in the first order of detecting or committing these crimes. What we've had tonight, in terms of criminal acts under the common name "abuse of intoxicating drugs", I'm primarily thinking of Article 183, absolutely rejecting. It is regarded as the greatest deficit, I personally estimate it as the greatest loss in the solution or solutions of this Law. Because there is absolutely no criminal political justification to change existing incriminations especially in relation to drug possession, production and sales, and other unauthorized drug trafficking. Any formulations which would limit the incriminating of the expressions of ownership, the production of small quantities are unacceptable for personal use only and the like. The more any procedure in decriminalisation, even if part of the case may not be justified by overworking the criminal justice body, and I don't think there's anything more to be added to that. And not even the possibility of applying Article 28. Penalty law. My colleagues know what I'm talking about, so it's that judgment of a judge or a court when it comes to a particular situation of committing a crime and this kind of crime. What we had a chance to hear tonight and also in terms of criticizing the solution of this Law and regarding the part of public slander, I think we should say, should be repeated, because this is actually the essence of the proposal and the government and the working group in this segment of criminal acts. The applicant therefore seeks to change the current text of Article 203 in favour of doing the press work. So, doing a journalistic job while the truthfulness or untrueness of the content is being published becomes primarily a subject of journalistic responsibility and in doing business from an ethical and professional point of view. So, not questionably one of the values that are, in terms of incriminating this part, elaborated, are newspapers and I think they are absolutely one of the additional qualities in incriminating this segment of criminal acts. We even had the chance to hear tonight and that it was necessary for me not to know what reasons, also to include the incrimination of the criminal part of non-payment of salaries. I'll get it done. The fact is, working relationship isn't a status relationship anymore. The fact is that we have changed labour legislation, working relationship in the Republic of Croatia in this sense became one specific, let me tell you the contractual relationship. I don't see unless in specific situations it would only happen again to the criminal part of the fraud or some other part of the sentence, but it's incriminating again. Therefore, there is in our criminal law why this proposal or the Final Proposal of the Penal Code should be experienced in this sense by the criticism given. And I conclude that in the first reading, the proposer has, of course, included a newspaper in this text. I will look only at three, in my opinion quality and it is good that they are included in the final proposal, especially as regards the incriminating of child pornography on the computer system and the network, then the provisions concerning... which are fully in line with the Convention on... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, it is also one additional quality, and the relevant paper is the criminal part of counterfeiting a document that also I think should have been included in this Final Bill proposal. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And here's how it goes in sequence or logical sequence. As far as vacuuming or vacuuming legislation is concerned, I think October 1st is a date for Croatian professional and other public knowledge of the provisions of this Act. I think the extension of the vote alone would be unnecessary. A lot is written in the papers and other means of public communication, by the provisions of this very Law, so that the location deadline is quite appropriate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17665	Thank you very much. Correction of an incorrect alleged, respected representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17666	It is incorrect that he told his colleague that there is no, or no need for this incrimination to pay workers because that no longer has a working relationship, no permanent employment relationship and that it is... It does not matter whether it is a relationship of a certain time or an indefinite time, and ultimately it is important to pay or not to pay the worker, pay the worker. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Well, after all, the government itself doesn't talk about what you're explaining because it has nothing to do with us accepting or not accepting these incriminatings. The government is just trying to say, I think, in particular, that it can be protected in civil law relations and that there is enough protection that does not require criminal legal protection but not entirely for these reasons that you are talking about. Because that's not what I'm saying to each other.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17667	My colleagues, Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović, you have expressed disagreement with the legal position of the representatives, but you have expressed disagreement and the replica of the respected, let us play more. Replica, a respected representative, Marija Lugaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17668	Dear Mr. President, dear colleague! I would just like to point out here a few things concerning the crime of drug possession, that is, this Article 173, paragraph 1. First and most important, no one has ever advocated drug legalisation in this Croatian Assembly. Second. The law in no way knows the work and does not know at all the qualifications of easy, heavy drugs, small and large quantities. The law distinguishes two crimes; possession of drugs and possessions for reselling. And no one's ever talked about any amount and I don't know what. Third. The suggestion that drug possession was decriminalized didn't come from politics but from the profession. We discussed here in the Croatian Parliament a proposal from the State's Attorney's Office that prompted the debate to do so for a number of reasons. First, the story is the dispensation of the courts. Second, if the statistics of the State Statistics Institute were taken into account, as these items went, it was seen that most of the penalties for these children were either conditional or that, according to the principle of opportunity, they were mainly less or less processed. The fourth argument, which states that the amendment of the Law on the Prevention of Drug Abuse and the Law on Violation, in that sense, that the penalties for the possession of drugs are significantly increased than are provided for here in the KZ and is an obligation to impose a safeguard measure of treatment. So I think I agree with you, just the correctness of the debate here, I think we should talk about all the facts, not just some stuff that we should do on a flat-rate basis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17669	Thank you. The reply to the replica, the respected representative Emil Tomljanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17670	Here's what I'm going to do. I'm going to try really, really short. I don't think it's a correction to an incorrect allegation, but in the replica, I'm going to say that there were certain political groups, groups, political parties that advocated the decriminalization of drugs among others and some members of the Social Democratic Party, too, if memory serves me well and I think that in this sense it serves me very well, and as far as drug abuse is concerned, one level of political story in both the political sense and in terms of those messages and the debates that we had at the first of those discussions, it can be like this or like that. But when we come to the sphere of legal regulation and the message sent by criminal law or criminal law to the public, you can have your position. I can respect him or I don't have to respect him but in that sense, I think that abuse of intoxicating drugs or incrimination or erasure of that article or existing incrimination... This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The criminal law that, in this sense, it would be wrong and unacceptable in terms of criminal law enforcement of none, and in this sense I rephrase some thinking, especially in terms of the relationship in society as we have, and what a drug problem is now among our young people and in our society that we are sending among other things criminal legislation the message that this should be decriminalised or that such a type of criminal offence should be decriminalised in any sense or, any sense, be decriminalized. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here's what I wouldn't do anymore because it's pretty late. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17671	Thank you. State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice Snjezana Bagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17672	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. At the end of the debate on this final draft of the law, despite this late hour, I think that, in the name of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, I would also like to thank the people who have praised the bill and supported it, as well as those who have highlighted certain remarks, suggestions or criticism, because they are of course useful and contribute to making this text of the law as good as possible and to be, that its application in practice is as effective as possible because this is the ultimate goal and purpose. In relation to those remarks and proposals that have been repeated several times, and even with the danger of me repeating it again, it seems to me that the most remarks were whether the Government in this bill was radical enough and whether it went broad enough, or whether we are talking about the scope of this law. The government has also said in its own explanation, and we have repeatedly pointed out that in the approach to the amendments to criminal legislation, it has been set for a degree-of-the-art approach, i.e. for access to amendments and additions that are harmonised, agreed, which have been designed and completed by the end and in the second phase of the autumn will go with another, stronger, more radical changes in criminal law regarding new criminal offences, in view of potentially stronger criminal repression. The question is, do you need an analysis of the condition or not? The government thinks it should. Why? It seems to us that this teaches us our practice and our experience because sometimes a path filled with good intentions ends badly if it is not fully designed. And then I get into a situation where there's a charge of a certain crime, a procedure, and great expectations of the public are failed, why? Because the crime was not well described, evidence could not be carried out and so on. This is particularly evident in the case of criminal offences that are at the moment instigating the highest public interest, which was most talked about in this Assembly Hall, which are criminal acts of economic crime. As part of the criminal offences, it seems to me that I deserve a special place in view of the complexity of the areas they cover, of the knowledge specific to what is needed and which seems to me to be public speaking, not all those who pursue or who judge can, therefore, need professional, more specific knowledge and are even more difficult to prove. These long-term procedures are therefore more difficult to describe and describe, in practice, how to charge and punish, and the Government feels that these offences should then be thoroughly analysed and finally prescribed in a way that will enable them to be applied successfully and in practice. And that is why the Government has set out for this approach that these and some other crimes will be covered by other, subsequent amendments and additions to the Penal Code in the autumn. To all those who feel that this may be wrong and that the Government has been cautious and that it will not be credible or that it is not convincing and brave enough in that I think that we will best prove against the works, which is when we refer to the Parliament in fact the new text of amendments and addition of the Penal Code. In relation to some other crimes that have aroused great interest in this Chamber, and of course because of their social dangers and deaths, these are crimes of drug abuse and this new criminal act that we are proposing illegal construction. Neither the Government of the Republic of Croatia nor I think that anyone in this Chamber or in the public may consider and believe that only their regulation and punishment is the only way we can react and should respond to these truly socially dangerous and deadly acts. It's one thing to prescribe them and punish them. It comes through, it is a reaction of society to such unacceptable behaviours and it is a question on the one hand of the strength of social reaction given the complexity and severity and social danger of such acts. They can be more serious, so they're criminal offenses or easier, so they're criminal offenses. The Government of the Republic of Croatia and here believe that during the debate, some have said that the message that is being sent is important and that such crimes as abuse... The drugs involved and the possession are so socially dangerous that they should be prescribed as criminal acts. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Of course, depending on the circumstances of the particular case, it will depend on how it will be punished in the range of penalties prescribed. Also illegal construction, I think it should be punished because it's one blow to social values. It is absolutely unacceptable behavior that ultimately damages not only the economic development of Croatia but also our space and protection of the environment as one of the ultimate lines of protected constitutional values. But I only repeat their prescriptions and the severe punishments that we will prescribe will not be enough if they are prevented. And if others serve within the system in a timely manner, they do not respond and prevent such a thing and the criminal attitude is then they will react in the framework of the prescribed penalties if, despite this prevention, because it cannot be absolute either, there is no timely response. And as far as child pornography is concerned, with the commendation that this work is prescribed, I would only point out that its regulation is already covered by the introduction of the edict under paragraph two. So we punish ourselves even if a child is knownly made accessible to this crime. As far as the vacuum is concerned, the Government has already taken the appropriate time to optimal time when this law should enter into force and it seems to me that the deadline of 1 October 2004 is a sufficient period of time, which is several months for courts and state attorneys to prepare for the application of this law. I thank you once again to all who participated in the debate and to support this Law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17673	Thank you very much. I'm closing the hearing. Final draft law amending and supplementing the law of second reading, P.Z.E. No. 88. The debate on the text of the law is over. We have a plate of amendments. Madam Minister. Please, let's go in order. Amendment 1 to the respected representative of Ivo Josipovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17675	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17676	Thank you. It becomes an integral part of the law. Amendment 2 of the SDP advocates' clubs.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17677	This amendment shall not be accepted because it intends to amend the formal content of the standard referred to in Article 82. KZA in no way contributes to territorial and practical clarity. Provisions on the confiscation of property benefit. This is not an indefinite formulation, and there has been such an expression in Croatian criminal law for many years.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17678	Put that on yourself somewhere.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17679	And it doesn't.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17680	Mr. Kramaric, you seem to have pulled too much already, and then you continue at the Assembly, a wonderful representative. Wait a minute. This gentleman he was with at the company, please step away from the assembly. It's his helper or his pillow. My fellow ministers, please continue this amendment two.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17681	So as I said, it is not about an indefinite formulation of such an expression in Croatian criminal law for many years and does not represent any ambiguity or indeterminateness. Neither in criminal justice nor in the practice of courts. And the Criminal Procedure Act contains clear procedural provisions on the confiscation of property benefit under official duty. A provision of Article 465. The CAP speaks only of a limit in which the court itself will be measured at the level of the property benefit per free rating.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17682	Dear representative of Milanka Opačić here you are. Amendment withdrawn. Thank you very much. The third club of the representative of the SDP.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17683	This amendment is partly accepted, the proposed statement from the amendments is both in practice and in part of the definition set out in Article 89(3). KZA. So the Proposer holds that it justifiably proxies a broader definition than is contained in the UN Convention by combining the text in the amendment with the UN Convention definition and the applicable Penal Code. The definition of a criminal organisation referred to in Article 89 paragraph 23 shall be accepted by proposing the following text. So please listen to him. The criminal organisation shall be a structured association of at least three persons who exist during a given period and act with the common objective of committing one or more crimes for the direct or indirect acquisition of financial or other material benefits, or with the aim of achieving and maintaining supervision of certain economic or other activities, and shall be subject to criminal offences for which a prison sentence of at least four years or more severe penalty may be imposed. So it's an insert. And yet, a criminal organization is the foundation of the concept of organized crime.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17684	Representative Milanka Opačić agrees with this amended text. It becomes an integral part of the law. 4 amendments by MP Ivo Josipovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17685	This amendment is not accepted since it is partially accepted in Article 10 and the proposed solution is practically contrary to the definition of criminal organisation. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17686	Thank you very much. Amendment number four has been withdrawn. Amendment number 5 of MPs and Vice-President Đurđe Adlesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17687	In relation to the amendments to the honourable MPs and vice-presidents of the Assembly mentioned in the review of the amendments and under Nos 5 and 8 we give a common position in relation to both amendments, given that they are materially linked, so if you agree. Therefore, they cannot be accepted although the intention of the amendment is substantively acceptable, however, the definitions of the concepts under the Cybercrime Convention have been given in Article 89 and it is not necessary to define the very concept of virus and all other types of malignant computer data or programmes, with the applicant verifying the proposed solutions regarding the basic crime of cybercrime referred to in Article 223. KZ so that the solutions are also proposed in Amendments 1 and 2 of the consummated incriminations prescribed in paragraphs 2, 3 and 6 and qualified forms of doing the work in paragraph 6. so I think you can accept that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17688	Vice-President Djurdja Adlesic accepts these amended in this text amendments to the amendments and the fifth and related amendments to that and amendment number 8. 6 amendments to the Club of Representatives of the SDP.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17689	This amendment cannot be accepted for the reason that it is prescribed, it is not acceptable, in fact, to prescribe the same criminal framework because it is not an identical criminal amount as if it were a criminal act of murder, since Article 125(3) of the kidnapping victim does not attribute the perpetrator’s death to a stop, and if the kidnapping was committed until the intended death of the victim, then it would be murder and the provisions on acquisition apply. The same solutions are also prescribed in some other criminal offences in the Criminal Code, for example in Article 271(2) and (4) and 272. paragraphs 3 and 4 and others. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17690	Thank you very much. Amendment withdrawn. Number 7 of amendments to the Club of Representatives of the SDP.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17691	This amendment can also not be accepted because it is not true that it would be a convention obligation to incriminate such behaviour under the additional protocol, and incrimination of the above-mentioned behaviour as proposed in paragraph 4 would constitute the introduction of causuisticism into the Penal Code and those circumstances are not in itself incriminating but should be regarded as difficult circumstances when measuring the type and height of the penalty. It is also not necessary to incriminate a person who serves sexual services, because in this case it will be a matter of obtaining adequate criminal acts from the head of criminal acts against sexual freedom and sexual prodigy so that, when sentence is imposed, the single penalty may be higher than it would be if the solutions set out in the proposed amendment were adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17692	Dear representative Milanka Opačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17693	Madam Minister, since trade or trade in women is something that has become one of the largest and most profitable jobs in the world in the past few years, Croatia has found itself on the hook and as a country that is the destination and as a country through which such victims are transferred. I think we should use some solutions that have other countries that have faced such a problem. Namely, such persons remain captives and become victims solely because they are being taken from them, so they take their passports and become slaves. I think that such an act should be punished and prescribed therefore by the Penal Code, and also in those countries that have gone far ahead in relation to us when it comes to tradeing, it has proved necessary to punish the users of sexual services of women who have therefore found themselves in such a position contrary to their will. So I'm staying with this amendment and I'm asking for a vote, because I don't think it cost you anything, and to help us fight the trade and primarily protect these women and often children who are just victims.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17694	Please vote. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 9 amendments to the Club of Representatives of the SDP.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17695	This amendment is not accepted. Namely, the regulation of major criminal frameworks as already pointed out by the applicant is the subject of a complex judgment announced for the second stage, the amendment of the Penal Code, and there are no partial and partial procedures in the criminal frameworks that violate the coherence of the existing relationship between the prescribed criminal frameworks in relation to the protected value, and there is no criminal political reason for the corruption in the private sector to be severely punished by other forms of corruption, since after the change, i.e. the adoption and the adoption of these first amendments of the Penal Code, there will be a second phase, there will also be a change in that part in the second phase.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17696	Please be my guest. ... No, that's what we've been through. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] This is 9.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17697	Here's the thing, Madam Minister. The suspended penalties from six months to five years as well as in this paragraph 2 shall be meaninglessly small. If we are to deal with this type of crime seriously, then we must respond adequately. After all, and the case law itself, the courts warn when they are being criticised for being too mild a criminal policy, then they tell us exactly to the legislative body, so please, gentlemen, to raise the special minimum of these types of criminal offences, in particular, that applies to this type of crime.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17698	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Number 10 SDP representatives' clubs.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17699	It is also not accepted for the same reasons. The regulation of larger criminal frameworks is not accepted because it is part of a complex ruling by the legislator announced for the second phase that is going on immediately after we adopt this first part of the amendments to the Penal Code.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17700	Honored representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17701	Well, you see, the practice already shows that these senseless impedimented six months is really absurd. But if you really promise that this famous second phase will come quickly, then here we are holding you back, so here I am to make things easier for all of us, withdrawing the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17702	Thank you. Amendment 10 withdrawn. 11 also an amendment to the SDP Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17703	Here's the same answer to this one as before, and I can tell right now that phase two is going right away from tomorrow.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17704	Madam Minister, too, in this case, indeed for spreading false and disturbing rumors when there can be major adverse consequences is a meaninglessly low penalty. But if that's what you're planning at this second stage, I guess the fall stage to include it, then I'm withdrawing the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17705	Thank you very much. Amendment 11 withdrawn. Number 12 of the Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17706	This amendment shall be accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17707	Thank you. It becomes an integral part of the law. Thank you very much, Minister. The law requires a majority of the votes of all MPs, at least 77 votes in favour. Who's in? I am voting on the final draft law amending and supplementing the Penal Code. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Restraint? I find that it is unanimous with 104 votes for the adopted Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Penal Code, as proposed by the Proposer, together with the amendments adopted. - Proposal for a Decision on the participation of members of the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia in peacekeeping missions in the United Nations. The motion for a decision was adopted by the Government, the proposal for an act, in the decision-making process, by the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislatives, Internal Politics and National Security, you received reports at the session. I ask the defence minister, Berislav Roncevic, to further explain the proposal. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17709	Honored Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. The government proposes to make a decision on the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the United Nations peacekeeping missions in the proposal for this Decision, which we have sent to you, we have further explained what peace missions are about. NOTING that peace missions are the participation of members of the Croatian Armed Forces in peacekeeping missions, in the scale of Croatia's desire to obtain the status of a non-permanent member of the Security Council and a clearly declared government decision on the strategic objective of foreign policy of joining NATO and the PfP membership of the PFP commitment already a member of Croatia. What's important to point out, I'm not going to encourage every peace mission right now, and I think that we've explained it here in a similar way. It's important to point out that the participation of the anchovies of our armed forces in these peace missions that the leaders have been proposed is in the status of military observers or staff officers. So it's not about combat tasks of members of the Croatian Armed Forces. And what is particularly important is the funds for the participation of members of the Croatian Armed Forces in peacekeeping missions are osgiura or from the funds of the rectory budget of the state in the position of the defence ministry, peace missions and other initiatives. Or they're part part of the diaries that belong to the UN-provided peace missions. This Decision shall be published in the EEA Section of, and in the EEA Supplement to, the Official Journal of the European Union. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia would ensure the continuity of the participation of the Croatian Armed Forces in the peacekeeping mission. And that one credibility to Croatia is as a country that wants and is ready to be an active factor in ensuring peace in the world. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17710	Thank you very much. Does the Committee's rapporteur want it? President of the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security Ivan Jarnjak please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17711	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. At its 17th session on 12 July, the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security discussed the proposal for this Decision and with 8 votes in favour and with one abstention, he decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament a decision on the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the United Nations peace mission in the text as proposed by the Commissioner for the Decision to be adopted. By proposing a conclusion to an additional one, which was also raised by 8 votes for and 1 abstention. And the bottom line is. The Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Croatia, following each rotation of members of the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia in the United Nations peacekeeping missions, is obliged to report to the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security on the effectiveness of the mission. in this way we retain parliamentary oversight of the maintenance of these missions and of the duration of these missions. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17712	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the club HSPa, the respected representative Pero Kovčević. He's gone. In the name of the HNS PGS club, the esteemed representative of Zeljko Kurtov please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17713	Your Honor. Honorary ministers, colleagues and colleagues. We're not going to beat ourselves up. We're going to be very short, but I need to read this assessment of the situation so far. I think she deserved how it was written to commend and read in this sabor. Participation in international peace operations is in line with the strategic definition of the Republic of Croatia, which places our country among the responsible members of the inter-nardon community who are willing to take over their part of the burden of general security with their active participation in peace operations. The Republic of Croatia makes a significant contribution to the bid for a non-permanent member of the United Nations Security Council. Especially in achieving its strategic goals by joining NATO and the European Union. We'll cut it short. This way from my personal conversation with officers who have already participated in peace missions I will convey their experiences to you and what they think about it. HNS and PGS will strongly support this government decision proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, Croatian actors who go on peacekeeping missions have the opportunity to compare their ability and education. learning from others, and what is more important is to participate in the real creation and preservation of the peace of other peoples who really need it. Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia not only have sufficient numbers of trained people, i.e. Officers than more have much greater interest in the number of officers who want to go on peacekeeping missions. Given the experience of the Homeland War, our officers have shown high professionalism, and among the 20% are the best officers on peacekeeping missions. Our officers consider going on a mission as a guarantee because that's how they solve their life problems by going on a mission. As for the sig dive, our officers have proved to be extremely brave, and thus less endangered than others who have no military experience. We know from the outset that when it comes to panic, there are victims. The work of observers in Sierra Leone was carried out by our officers with colleagues from 32 countries of the world and domestic people, i.e. The representatives of the government. In this way there are various military, civil and any other experiences, and they also promote the Republic of Croatia in the international community. I am assured by our officers that from 32 countries around the world, they now have contacts through liaison officers with whom they adjure. We in HNS and PGS and I personally advocate the increased participation of Croatian officers in peacekeeping missions because it is an honorable job that every country should give as a debt to the international community. And in the end, I must say, directly with the officers involved in the Peace Mission. I have this information and I wanted to share it with you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-13-0.u17714	Thank you very much. Is there anything else the minister would like to say? Thank you. I'm closing the debate. Proposal for a decision on the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the United Nations peacekeeping missions. The debate is closed, the decision-making process requires a two-thirds majority of all MPs' votes, so at least 102 votes to go. I am voting on this motion for a decision. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? I find that, unanimously with 106 votes for the decision to continue the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the peace missions of the United Nations in the text, as proposed by the Proposer and in accordance with the proposal of the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security, I give the following conclusion: The Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Croatia, following each rotation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the peace missions of the United Nations, is obliged to inform the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security on the effectiveness of the mission. Who's in favor of this proposal for a conclusion? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? I find it unanimous with 104 votes for the proposed conclusion.
