ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-31-0.u8911	Mr. President, colleagues and fellow MPs. The fight against drugs as one of the biggest and most significant problems of the Republic of Croatia, as well as many other countries, involves a broad social and state activity that must be designed and fully and in no way should be campaigning. Whether it's about prevention, combating addiction or preventing and curbing illegal trafficking of all kinds of drugs. Prevention is certainly the best and cheapest way to fight addiction but unfortunately it is not enough. The repressive measures of the rule of law should work on curbing the market for illegal supply and demand for drugs. This involves, above all, the fight against organised crime by large dealers, so those who bring more drugs to the Republic of Croatia. The state must ensure both legal and material and all other conditions in order to make the fight against drugs as effective as possible. The Republic of Croatia expects a series of measures and activities in both legislative and other segments. Perhaps during the announced amendments to the criminal law, at least the concept of drug abuse definitions should be considered. Since the Republic of Croatia is one of the few European countries that does not use the term of banned drugs but intoxicating drugs, which is not as easy as heavy and many others, therefore concepts that distinguish and therefore have certain legislative systems in Western European countries. It would also be good for the amendments to the Penal Code that will come before the Croatian Parliament to remain one of the provisions that was in the last amendment to the Penal Code and which, therefore, was out of force because of the Constitutional Court's decision and these were very severe criminal sanctions for large dealers. And we think, therefore, that it was one good way to punish those who bring large amounts of drugs into Croatia and who are, therefore, those who are the source of all evil to be really punished by very high prison sentences. And so it is on this side when sanctions are a sort of message from society that we do not want drugs in Croatia. The fight against drugs is a sociological, psychological and medical issue, a matter of law and the functioning of the rule of law. But it certainly shouldn't be a political issue. Unfortunately, in the Republic of Croatia, the problem of drugs is most often a political issue, which often leaves adequate solutions and results. The SDP Club proposes to representatives of the Croatian Parliament to adopt amendments and amendments to the Law on the prevention of drug abuse as one of the first and smallest steps that should be passed in achieving the best conditions for a more effective fight against drugs. Over the past few years, a lot has been done to fight drug trafficking. First of all, thanks to the co-operation of the Croatian police with the US and European police. There were a lot of major drug seizures, but then the perpetrators of the crime were caught, which is very important, but also as it didn't seem years ago. This is also confirmed by the latest State Department report that significant progress has been made in the field of combating illegal drug trafficking but that it is necessary to work on amending the legislation and preventing money laundering related to illegal drug trafficking. The efficiency of the Croatian police has resulted in, as I have already said to large quantities of drugs that have not been destroyed for two full years because of the non-application of part of the law on drug abuse. Just think of some newspaper headlines about the seizure of 110000 tablets of ecstasy, 360 kilos of cocaine, 28 km of amphetamine, 19 kg of heroin, and not to mention any more. All of this is still in warehouses and much, much more so, the intoxicating drugs are currently located in certain warehouses. Drug abuse is not destroyed because the commission to destroy drugs has never been appointed. This is due to the lack of agreement between the Ministry of Justice and Home Affairs and the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia on all acceptable proposals for a solution to this problem. At the same time, in public time, there is growing suspicion of possible drug abuse. Therefore, it is proposed to appoint a permanent commission established by the Government of the Republic of Croatia and in which the representatives of several resolutions in which the work of this and other laws is part in connection with the drug problem, which we believe to be the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of Health and Social Welfare and the Office for the Prevention of Drug Abuse, and for the sake of timely and complete information and public control and the representative of the Croatian Journalist Society. The amendment of the law also proposes to destroy higher quantities of drug abuses in individual confiscation immediately after the skill and production of photo-laborate and the findings of the skills required for further criminal or criminal proceedings. Less individual amounts of drug taken would be destroyed in front of the commission at least once every three months. How the commission is obliged to keep certain records, records and other, by supplementing the law, the administration's affairs on these matters are proposed by the Ministry of Justice. As regards the assessment of the necessary foundations for the implementation of this Act, it should be said that no budget resources are needed since, under the provisions of Article 52 of this Act, the funds are provided in the regular budget of the Ministry of Interior by stressing that the means of insurance and storage are greater than its destruction. A month after the SDP Club referred to the procedure of this Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the control of drug abuse, the Government is also on the proposal and on the initiative, therefore, the SDP is declared by its proposal. This has already been seen on many occasions, therefore, that after giving in the procedure of an opposition law can be found in the procedure and the government's law which therefore, in part or attributes itself to the urgency of the law, but unfortunately here I must say that we think that the government's law also regulates certain parts which, therefore, did not cover our law, are primarily about prevention. But on the other hand, we don't think it's an adequate way to solve this problem that we wanted to talk about in our amendments to the law, which is destroying drugs. Here, so much for now on behalf of the proposer. And we will, on behalf of the motionor, show ourselves about all the remarks and suggestions that will come from the MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-31-0.u8912	I'd like to thank the Honorable Representative Opacic. On behalf of the Government, State Secretary Professor Dr. Velimir Bozikov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-31-0.u8913	Dear Mr. Vice President, a very respected colleague, drugs are a major global evil that unfortunately has not passed our country either. It takes a permanent fight against drugs. It is clear that prevention is one of the original importance, of no less importance, is neither the treatment nor the treatment but that has fallen into this evil, and our positive legislation must help to eradicate this evil as quickly as possible. Therefore, as set out in the former law, Article 55(7) on the prevention of drug abuse is prescribed to destroy intoxicating drugs, means parts of the plant and its substances, Article 2(2), point 1. The law carries out a pre-office which is designated by the body which has taken the decision to confiscate intoxicated drugs, parts of the plant or substance. This led to the fact that the courts were to make decisions on the withdrawal of drug intoxication, after the entry into force of this Act, and should, by the power vested in their decisions, appoint committees before which intoxicating drugs could be destroyed, based on a decision to suspend or withdraw the case from the police. However, the practice has shown the ineffectiveness of such an approach since the entry into force of the Law, which was in December of late 2001, the courts did not appoint any commission before which the destruction of intoxicating drugs would be carried out. It was therefore proposed to amend the applicable Law on the control of drug abuse. The bodies before which the destruction of intoxicating drugs, plants and substances is carried out is a commission appointed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The presidents and members of the commission are proposed by the interior minister, health ministers, the justice minister, the minister responsible for the family, head of the Office for the control of drug abuse. The President of the Commission shall be appointed from the ranks of the Ministry of the Interior and after that all these laws are in fact brought into line and the Government's proposal is that drugs could be destroyed only when jurisdiction is reached with judicial decisions so as not to follow various abuses under this drug destruction procedure and that certain different criminal groups may not be pulled out on the basis of various legal tricks in such proceedings. That was the government's goal to pass a bill like this to a proposal you have in front of you on your benches. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-31-0.u8914	I thank the Secretary of State. Does the Committee’s rapporteur want to take the floor? Dr. Crescent. Marko Turic, Committee on Health and Social Care.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-31-0.u8915	Dear Mr Vice-President, the Committee on Labour, Social Policy and Health at the 5th session of the Committee held on 22 March 2004 discussed the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Prevention of the Abuse of Intoxication Drugs, which was submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Government of the Republic of Croatia by the Act of 3 March 2004. The Committee discussed the draft law as a home working body in accordance with Article 75. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. Following the opening statement by the proposing representative, a joint discussion was held on this legislative proposal and on the same basis as the one referred to by the SDP Representatives' Club in the parliamentary procedure. In a broad discussion, the Committee members stressed the need to amend the legal provisions on the procedure and the body facing the destruction of intoxicating drugs. An existing solution in which courts need to exercise the power of their decisions to take intoxicating drugs has proved ineffective. Since the entry into force of the Law on the control of drug abuse, courts have not appointed any commission before which the destruction of intoxicating drugs would be carried out. The proposed amendments to the applicable Law and the establishment of a permanent commission appointed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia are therefore to continuously and controlled the destruction of intoxicating drugs. This will also prevent possible drug abuse. The debate warned that until the second reading of this proposal, it would be useful to consider through the Committee's composition the possibility of providing information and public control in an appropriate manner. After a broad debate, the Committee members decided to propose to the Croatian Assembly, with 2 votes abstentions, for adoption of the following conclusion: First, the Amendment Law on Amendments and the Completion of the Law on the Prevention of the Abuse of Intoxication Drugs in the text, as proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, is adopted. Secondly, any comments, proposals, opinions delivered in the debate during the first reading will be forwarded to the applicant to take them into account when drawing up the text of the final draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-31-0.u8916	I thank the esteemed representative Mark Turic. On behalf of the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports, Honorable Representative Davorko Vidović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-31-0.u8917	Mr Vice-President, colleagues and colleagues and the Committee on Family, Youth and Sport also discussed at its 5th session held on 22 March the proposals of both these, both proposals of the law and after a joint discussion and the opening presentation of the representatives of the promoters were concluded: that when it comes to the proposal for a law on amending and supplementing the law of the SDP Representatives' Club, it is pointed out in most discussions that the proposed amendments and amendments do not comply with the applicable provisions of the Law on the prevention of drug abuse and the Criminal Procedure Act, and the opinion of most Committee members is that it is not possible to accept the draft law amending and supplementing the SDP Club Law. However, the chairman of the Committee is in accordance with Article 51. The Rules of Procedure delivered an isolated opinion stating the reasons why the above proposal should be accepted on the grounds that the legislative proposal which better regulates and resolves the issue of drug destruction and which warned that the fact that the non-forming of the commissions and delays of the courts will not be resolved in this way, because it is precisely by waiting for the courts and this commission in some way limiting the possibility of destroying the intoxicating drugs. On the other hand, when it comes to the government's proposal, amendments to this Act are then proposed, with particular reasons, and I would say that the government's proposal is very well regulated by specific measures to adopt a special programme of withdrawal from addiction and care for drug addicts and occasional drug users. The Committee's debate therefore highlights a recommendation to the Hungarians on the harmfulness of drug use and its consequences. In the debate itself, or after the debate itself, the Committee accepted in a unanimous government proposal and in the SDP vote, two hungers were for, 3 against and 4 votes abstention. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-31-0.u8918	I thank the honourable representative Davorko Vidovic. On behalf of the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities, Honored Representative Furio Radin.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-31-0.u8919	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President, the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of the National Minorities of the Croatian Parliament discussed the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the prevention of drug abuse at the 3rd session of March 2004. That's the government's proposal. We also had a proposal on the agenda that the SDPs made, but since the proposal was not present, we were unable to discuss the proposal because it is the custom of our Committee not to discuss the proposal if the applicant is present. Since it is the same legislative matter, the debate on this draft law has been brought together. Because in the end, some articles of this proposal whose representative was not present have been discussed. So it's united by discussing this second bill. The debate sets out the following opinions of the motions and proposals. In order to balance the practice and avoid possible abuses of this law, criteria should be laid down for the decision-making of when the drug taken can be used as raw materials and surrenders, with the compensation of a legal person who is authorised to make drug intoxication and in which case a decision on the destruction of the deprived drug is taken. In fact, we're discussing how drugs will be destroyed, but one part of the drug is known to not be destroyed, so then for another reading, we suggested that the government introduce us to criteria that don't destroy and that drugs, for example. offers and sells to pharmaceutical institutions, industries. The law should establish that the funds obtained from the compensation of the surrender of the intoxicated drugs to legal persons authorised for the production of intoxicating drugs are used for the purpose of financing the treatment of addiction, and the prevention of drug abuse. When destroying the seized drug, it is necessary to provide the public with the law. It is a sensitive issue in which the possibility of any abuse must be prevented, for which the insight of the Devil is a significant prerequisite. It is therefore proposed to supplement the relevant provision by law in this respect. The amendments to the law regulate the establishment of the Tjails for the destruction of drug intoxication, but the obligation to report on the procedure is not predicated. By law, the obligation, meaning the government's reporting, should therefore be provided for, and is therefore proposed to include the proponent of such a provision in the final draft of the law. After the discussion, the committee voted as we said only on the government's pre-prolongment and with 11 votes in favour, and 2 votes with abstention decided to the Croatian Parliament, propose the following conclusions. One is subject to the excessive law amending and supplementing the laws on the prevention of drug abuse. The two opinions, proposals and proposals to be presented in the debate are also addressed to the applicant to take them into account when drawing up the final draft law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-31-0.u8920	I thank the esteemed representative, Radin. This is what we've done with the board reports. We move to debate on behalf of the Libra Club, the distinguished representative Željko Pavlic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-31-0.u8921	Dear Mr. Vice President, the honorable representatives of the ministry, ladies and gentlemen. The Libre Club will not support the proposed law, i.e. promoting a new way of forming a commission, before which the destruction of intoxicating drugs, plants or substances would take place. According to this Law, it is proposed that this commission does not propose a hearing of the court which has decided to take away intoxicating drugs parts of plants or substances, but that the Commission should be appointed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. In our view, it is not acceptable that the proposed amendments to the law move towards the transfer to competent authorities for the destruction of intoxicating drugs from the judicial authorities to the authorities of the executive authority. In our opinion, there is an unnecessary concentration of authority among the executive authorities, and with regard to the destruction of the seized narcotics. And without real need and minorizing the role of the judicial bodies. And just to repeat, so far, the courts have just been authorized to name the body under which the drugs will be destroyed. The above explanations that the existing solutions are not constituent with the expected results should be observed by the conflict of law enforcement and by its shortcomings. So it should act in the direction of more meaningful functioning and implementation of existing laws. Not on their own alterations. Because nothing is guaranteed so far that the system will function in this law that should be passed. In addition, there is another important reason why there was no launch of the drug destruction process, which is that Croatia is currently, which is well over a year long, there is no suitable combustion plant. We know that the only such burner Puto in Zagreb exploded more than a year ago. So we simply don't have authorized burners here in Croatia where drug burning could be done. According to some information, these drugs have gathered somewhere near two tons. And so what we have left to try while the ton is made so that this drug is burned somewhere out there in some... that would be done in Austria. The Libre Club further believes that there would be a far more transparent and appropriate solution to the establishment of a body responsible for monitoring the destruction of seized opiates, at the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia. Which is why we would not touch on the content of the existing legal solutions. The more such solutions and in spirit with the Constitution guaranteeed by the government without the right to interfere with the executive body in work, action, integrity, and the independence of those legislative and judicial ones. Let me also warn this time of one fact that appeared here, so it was already mentioned here that this government law is actually a reaction to the law of the SDP. And that's not the first case to appear in this House. In some ways, these laws are twin twins. But what I would like to warn you about is the opinion of the government that arrived immediately after the SDP proposal, so it says in that opinion that the government does not accept the proposed law, i.e. the formation of this committee and with this formulation. Here's the government's opinion. I'll read it. Therefore, the proposed amendment to the applicable law would create a precedent in our legal system, given that the Commission of the Government of the Republic of Croatia would be transferred to the jurisdiction of the courts which are obliged to act in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and the laws. It is also necessary to note that according to Article 23. The Law on the Government of the Republic of Croatia can be established by permanent and occasional working bodies, with precise powers. Making a proposal for an opinion or expert explanation of the issues raised in the detour for which they were established. So this is the government's opinion, that immediately after that the government would come up with its bill of law, which proposes to amend the applicable law on the prevention of drug abuse, the body before which the destruction of the intoxicating drug plant or substance is a commission appointed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, so in a very short time, the diametrically opposite position on the establishment of this commission. In our opinion, it's an unserious approach to this topic. We know what drug problems are and how drugs affect health. And the lives of the people and the population. The issue of drug destruction is important in order to maintain trust in the work of the competent services. But Club LIBRE finds it far more important to improve public information and help addicts as quickly as possible. That is why we expect the Government to send the proposal of the Penal Code to the Croatian Assembly as soon as possible. We also expect the Ministry of Health to urgently start producing a methadone algorithm that would introduce order into an area where chaos currently exists. These would be real contributions to drug abuse policy. The LIBRE Club also believes that action should be directed towards more active involvement of the cooperation mechanism with the European Union authorities in the fight against drug trafficking and distribution, especially heroin, cocaine and cannabis, and because we will face the largest production of synthetic drugs in this part of the world as we enter the European Union. Dear ladies and gentlemen, for these reasons, the Club of Libre will not support either of these two laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-31-0.u8922	I'd like to thank the esteemed representative, Pavlic. Before the next club, one notice. The sixth session of the Committee on Labour, Social Policy and Health is scheduled for today at 13:30 and will be held in the hall at 84 and not in Hall 202 as indicated in the invitation. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the HSS, distinguished representative Ljubica Lalić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-31-0.u8923	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Representatives of the Government, colleagues and colleagues. We have two proposals to amend and supplement the Law on the control of drug abuse, which is already the third amendment since its adoption in mid-2001. As a rule, at the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Peasant Party, we do not mind a frequent change if it is in the function of removing the ambiguity and indetermination that law enforcement has shown as shortcomings that make implementation difficult and thus achieving the objective of which the law has been passed. But here we have two proposals that are almost the same. The SDP proposal was first introduced into the parliamentary procedure in an emergency procedure. For accuracy, the proposal was received on 16 February 2004. For then unknown reasons, and the will of the majority was lifted from the urgency of the procedure, so the proposal also welcomed the government's proposal several days ago in the regular procedure. After receiving the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the SDP Club proposal, which said: "The Government of the Republic of Croatia proposes to the Croatian Parliament not to accept the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prevention of Drug Abuse, with the Final Proposal" submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Club of Representatives of the SDP on 16 February 2004. Following such an opinion, it was impossible to expect the government's proposal almost the same content within a month. The SDP representative club proposes by its proposal to appoint a commission to decide whether to hand the taken-off drug to a legal person who has the approval to make intoxicating drugs or to be destroyed. According to the proposal, the commission would be appointed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia and would be composed of one representative of the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Interior, the Ministry of Health and Social Care, the Office for the Prevention of Drug Abuse and the Croatian Journalist Society. In its view, as a reason for not accepting the Government of the Republic of Croatia, it states that I propose an amendment to quote: "In contrast with the provisions of Article 168(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The law on criminal proceedings which has been prescribed in the case where a security measure is imposed in the judgment to withdraw the case that the court which issued the first-degree ruling will decide whether such cases will be sold in accordance with the provisions applicable to the executive procedure or will surrender to the criminal museum, i.e. another institution or will be destroyed" finished quote. In this part of the opinion and has some legal logic, but it can certainly be the subject of legal debate and it is difficult to predict what conclusion the debate would end with and that is why we are going through this part. However, its SDP proposal suggests that drugs be destroyed in front of the commission in an earlier-mentioned composition appointed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. In this section, we are particularly detained because the Government points out in its opinion that the second reason for rejecting the SDP proposal is because I quote it: "in contrast with the provisions of Article 165(1), (2) and (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The law on criminal proceedings which are prescribed when the verdict becomes a power of power and who is in charge of its execution. In addition, that Article of the Criminal Procedure Act is laid down in the case where the Court of First Instance is not in charge of its enforcement, it must provide a certified copy of the judgment with a certificate of enforcement of the body responsible for its enforcement and that the powerful judgment is carried out when it is properly delivered and there is no legal interference with its enforcement. It is therefore proposed to amend Article 51(7) in breach of the provisions of the Criminal Procedure Act concerning the enforcement of the judgment of the Court, and thus its jurisdiction to enforce a judgment of power." finished the quote. Since the exercise of the power of judgment by which intoxicating drugs and the means to prepare them are withdrawn, it is possible to execute such a decision by the court and the other body responsible for its enforcement. The summary is that the proposal should be rejected because it is contrary to the Criminal Procedure Act and nothing in its opinion would be strange, however illogical, because it is neither the first nor the last opinion proposed by the refusal of the opposition bill. What is surprising is the fact that, in substance, almost the same proposal after a month, the government of the Republic of Croatia referred to the parliamentary procedure. Even the reasons for the amendment and the addition are the same. Since 2001, the courts have not appointed any commission to execute the destruction of intoxicating drugs, and the government's proposal provides for the appointment of a commission that would be appointed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia instead of bodies that have decided to take up intoxicated drugs, plant parts or substances. The composition of the commission is the same except for one member for whom the SDP proposes to be a representative of the Croatian Journalist Society, and the government proposes to be appointed on a proposal from the minister responsible for the family. All in all differences are insignificant and insufficient to reject the earlier proposal and to accept the later ones. However, if we ignore that little thing, it remains a key problem, which is contained in the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. If the same SDP proposal ten days ago was opposed to the provisions of the Code on Criminal Procedure relating to the execution of the court's decision, and thus its jurisdiction to execute a judicial verdict, was such a proposal by the Government after 20 days also not opposed to that same law which had not changed in the meantime or perhaps the Government changed its opinion in the meantime. It is acceptable to change political opinion, but professionally it must be equally independent of what is the proponent of the political option. This is an eclectic example of the obedience of the profession to politics, and as long as the profession tends to depend on the winds of politics, the Croatian people will wait in vain to realize the key promise "Let's move Croatia". We do not want to say that the first proposal is perfect and that after the first reading discussion was conducted, it was not necessary to supplement it, but we would like to say that there was no reason for the government to waste 20 days needlessly spending energy and time, and thus to think about the reasons why the first proposal should be rejected, and then 20 days at the drafting of its proposal which is almost the same as what should be rejected. And while unusable time and energy are being spent on drug addiction in Croatia is becoming a growing problem, not only for addicts but also for their families that have been dissolved and destroyed. It's getting bigger and bigger for this society that's having a hard time dealing with it. Today drugs are increasingly available and enters without special problems in primary and secondary schools, and about disco clubs, bars and other youth gatherings not to be spoken of. Why don't we ask ourselves, what are the reasons that only 10 to 15% of street drugs are seized from us? Is it possible that drug abuse is returning to the market? What are the reasons why a growing number of young people enter the world of drugs? Bad youth time organization or something? Addiction cannot and must not be a problem just for addicts and their families. These exhausted and broken families need the support of society. The law on the prevention of drug abuse has not yet fully revived. Changes in the area of criminal law are necessary in order to provide the addict with the possibility of healing. So the problem is much more complex than the proposed change, and that is why we regret unnecessary time and energy. We advocate the destruction of drug abuse in front of the commission, but in time and in a way that does not destroy the evidence necessary for the fair end of the proceedings and the just punishment of those who do not exceed the supply of drugs even to primary school children at the earliest age. The destruction is also needed to eliminate the possibility of returning drugs to the market so that we can safely argue that only 10 to 15% of the drug-blocking street is a reflection of police ineffectiveness. However, the decision to support one or another proposal lacks an answer to the question, how, if they are contrary to the Criminal Procedure Act, that is not our opinion. That's the government's opinion. This opinion has been expressed in writing by the Government of the Republic of Croatia since 3 March 2004. If the Government has changed its mind and changed its mind on this disagreement with the Criminal Procedure Act, then we will support the SDP proposal that first entered the procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-31-0.u8924	I would like to thank the esteemed representative Lalic. I am taking the opportunity and they are at the gallery and I welcome the students of the 3rd year of politology and I want a pleasant stay in the Parliament. It's HSLS Club, DC. [[Applause]] Dear Representative, Vice-President of the Assembly Đurđa Adlesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-31-0.u8925	Thank you very much, fellow vice president, respected colleagues and colleagues. We started this debate today in an already common way and the usual wrong way. Who first handed over the law, not whose bill is better. If we really wanted to be responsible, we would try not only to combine the debate but to combine the good solutions of one law and another that certainly exists. However, our judgment is that both laws are actually quite superficial, that they only scratch the surface, that they essentially solve neither solve nor try to solve the problem of addiction. Otherwise, we think the problem of addiction is marginalized, and we're politicians. Most of the time we deal with this problem in the campaign, by collecting often political points, which is legitimate, but the same situation is with the media that when dealing with the problem of addiction then we will see either pathetic, or read pathetic stories, to read whether the child is a politician or a political addict or not, or to read where someone in which the public toilet died. Or we'll see similar photos. It's unfortunately the level we're working on, which we politicians and the media are both maintaining, and our responsibility is, I think, in common. We at the HSLS and DC Club are closer to the position of NGOs who have a very interesting assessment and say that the first political problem in Croatia is the problem of unemployment. And the fact is that no one questions such a thesis, but that another problem is addiction. And the problem of addiction requires an interdisciplinary approach, and the experts we asked for an opinion, studying these two bill proposals, warned of some serious errors in both laws. For example, even the wrong terminology that shouldn't have happened. From the pure term of an occasional borrower who is said to exist nowhere else but only with us, to something far more dangerous, which is incomplete drug lists, to the problem of free sale of codeines. Yesterday, we were listening to pharmacies who warned about that fact, about the free sale of codeines. Then, missing or in a better case insufficient school education, poor co-operation with parents, alienation in families, as far as I know. We have been warned by representatives of NGOs of numbers that are truly terrible if they are correct. Of those we already know, that approximately only the tip of the ice santa has been discovered, which is about 1/3, but also the fact that the years that we've spent 860 thousand kuna on education, on the fight against drugs, that, according to their estimates, 74 million euros went to spending expensive drugs. To avoid today, and we have already started, the discussion with the conclusion of the drug problem has to be resolved, so we often conclude, have to resolve or achieve political consensus would be good, so we at the HSLS and DC Club are looking for a report from the government office that is missing. We may not have really agreed to discuss amendments to the Law without reporting to the Government's office. If we had a report like that, then we'd really know where we are. We ask that the Office of Drugs report once a year, which should contain at least 10 fully defined points, so that we do not only have beautiful stories. What is the latest scientific findings in the field of drugs, software activities, conventions and seminars planned, so, education, preventive activities, media co-operation, international co-operation, changes in the national strategy and how it is implemented, financial reports for the fiscal year, a report on cooperation with other ministries, so why not the annual awards, if they exist, to experts who have shown themselves in particular in this area, but also educational programmes for students, teachers and parents. We heard why the State Institute of Dependence wasn't founded. It was just the department. I don't know if you know that 16 of these centers work without the titleholders, with employees who have only a contract of action and work in those centers for only a few hours. From that fact that he's an unclear titlemaker, that only a few hours is probably conscious or at least most, it's pretty clear what results we can expect. And that's why we think it's urgent that the National Institute of Dependence be established, but this time, an expert is found at the head of such a office. I claim that every time so far, and of course both HSLS and DC participated, no less or less honorably than other political parties have always had politicians. It would really be time to reach a political consensus to start only on the appointment of experts at the head of the state fund. Of course, a different attitude towards the communes is necessary. By visiting some of these communes, you've probably all figured out who you've been visiting, that they need help. But it also takes transparency of work, perhaps a few times and control. And it would be good to see if there is a conflict of interest for people who work in certain institutions and communities. You should hear from the Home Office if the Internet Crime Act is being prepared? Because there is information from the United States that in one year thousands of owners discovered that they were selling drugs in such a modern way. Croatia hardly escaped that fashion. We only hope for smaller percentages, of course. We spoke today, and that should be the main topic, the drug destruction. In front of the board, that's fine. The Commission must be carefully defined, drawn up by experts, crime of witches, medical experts, toxicologists, police officers, representatives of the judiciary. However, today is an open question that no one has answered, and we believe that it is important that MPs, so why not the public have an answer to which location is it, if that is not the case? Are there any spare locations and where are they? You should be careful, since when it comes to drugs, it's often about big money and hidden interests. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-31-0.u8926	I thank the honourable Vice President of the Parliament, Adlesic. It is next to the IDS Club, the distinguished representative of Dorotea Pesic-Bukovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-31-0.u8927	Dear Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. So far, a monster called drugs has been told a lot. And by this proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the control of drug abuse, we can say that we do not have any specific objections as to the IDS Club in the part of the law on the destruction commission, because this commission is certainly necessary and logical, but perhaps it should be included in this committee, I agree with the committees, that the public should be included in that commission. Are some associations interested, representatives of written or electronic media, anyway. However, in our opinion, annual reports on the amount of drug seized from the Ministry of Police and, of course, the annual reports from the Commission on the destruction of seized drugs should be linked, in order to see if all drugs were indeed destroyed and whether any of these drugs returned to the market in any way to the public. Although this law is, we can only say one formal technical harmonisation of the law, in our view it is a very important issue. Because it seems to us that through this law, there's something else that we're trying to get through. As for the proposal that special measures should be taken to dissipate addiction and care of addictions, so far has been a practice for the health minister to adopt these provisions. This should now, of course, be brought by the Minister of Health and Social Care. This, in our opinion, and the opinion of the field experts, who are dealing with this problem, is not right. Let me explain why. As a first-hand explanation, it seems logical, it is said to be in line with the Law on the formation of ministries, and is thought of, of course, the merger of the two health and social care ministries. The problem is that such a procedure can significantly change access to the problem of addiction, although at first glance it looks like a cosmetic change. Namely, although the two ministries have merged, it does not mean that addictions must come out of the health care section of the ministry. This is shown in Article 1 of this Act. Well, let me explain. In my opinion, the concept behind this is that addiction is not a disease, it's a social problem. And that's a crucial question of access to addiction. All developed countries have accepted the concept of addiction as a disease. It is also defined by the World Health Organization, because such a concept is best for both addicts and society. All those countries that have treated it differently, whether for political or other reasons, are now increasingly accepting the concept. This law speaks of, of course, a specific programme of measures. If these are withdrawal measures, they must primarily be medical, they are medications, they will be vaccines tomorrow, because they are also in preparation for some intoxicating drugs. These are psychotherapy procedures, protection measures against infectious diseases, which especially spread in addicts such as AIDS, hepatitis or tuberculosis. In these cases, social care has a job in resociation, but they don't get to do it either, because they just don't have the people or the money to do it the way they're supposed to. Someone's gonna say it's a vaccination and it's all and it's one ministry. Because if that's the case, then why do they propose to change the law? Obviously, it's important to someone. We can say that at the level of Croatia, a network of addiction prevention teams has been brought in, 27 of them, and two teams at Croatian level. In fact, this task of prevention, i.e. preventive healthcare, including school prevention, has been given to public health services. They should certainly be supported in preventive programmes and preventive activities and education. And it certainly has to be in that facility. But we think that intervention should take place in another institution, and most naturally, it would be the homes of health. This topic may be overly binding and should really be devoted to exceptional attention, because for example two teams in the Primorje-Goran County cannot be enough for education to include as many teachers as possible, professors, parents, in order to raise healthy young people, to have as few addicts as possible, and not as many addicts from year to year as possible and more dead than overdose. I must finally say that what I've presented today is an exposure based on the opinion of the Istrian and Primorsko-Gorski County doctors dealing with this problem on the ground. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-31-0.u8928	I thank the esteemed representative of Dorotea Pesic-Bukovac. It is next to the HSP Club, the distinguished representative of Ruža Tomasic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-31-0.u8929	Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. By investigating the data on this large monster that is now increasingly being talked about in Croatia and the world, and given the proposal for a new Law on the Prevention of Drug Abuse, I consider it necessary on behalf of the Club of HSP Representatives to highlight a number of problems that require certain changes to the law. In 2002, according to the available data, the number of treated, so registered addicts were 5811 persons, of which 4812 male and 999 female subjects. This doesn't mean it's a real number of addicts, it's just a registered one. If this were the total actual number of addicts, it might not indicate alarming situations. However, we are all aware that in concrete figures we are only dealing with statistics and not reality. For example, I cite familiar data, in one of our places in Dalmatia, which numbers about 4,000 inhabitants, there are 50 registered heroin addicts. So 50 of them spends a minimum gram of heroin somewhere. So when we add it up, it would come to about a month that consumes 1.5 kilos of heroin. This figure does not mean, in fact, this figure means that at least 18 kg of heroin is consumed in an extremely small environment annually. So the question arises, how many drugs are consumed annually throughout Croatia. The figures I cited indicate that the situation in the Republic of Croatia is even more than serious, even alarming. It should also be given far more attention than a parliamentary debate and law - making. In fact, action should be taken in terms of prevention rather than the resolution of consequences. In which I think of family education, schools and help churches as well as all other social organisations that can influence the attitudes and moral principles of young people and introduce them to the dangers and consequences that inevitably result from drug consumption. How much we are trying and trying to influence Croatia's birth rate, so we should also do everything possible and fight for these little bigger children who are equally important to the future of all of us. Allow me to point out on behalf of the HSP Club and as a person who has experience in the fight against drug abuse to all of us that those who are in hell of drugs are neither punks nor criminals or lost cases but are mostly children who have strayed from the way for various reasons and who, with our help reflected in all segments of life, would have to help back into a healthy and normal life. We must not look at them with contempt or hatred. They certainly do not need to be turned away because no addict woke up one morning and decided that day would become an addict. This is due to the social situation in terms of illness and as a result of our recent past, economic situation in the country and other influences, and it is necessary to provide assistance and resociation in society. We're not fooling ourselves, these situations happen, they don't just happen in the poor part of society, this monster doesn't ask about the social and economic state of the individual or society. Unfortunately, we cannot rule out the possibility that there are individuals who have come close to such a tragedy, whether in the family or in their nearby surroundings. So far, there have been numerous legal and numerous measures that have shown relatively little results despite good intentions. As one of the basic and successful treatments that led to significant results, the communes that operate on a voluntary basis. What individuals point to the importance of personality and restore faith in themselves, a healthy, normal life. However, the same communes do not have support in our legal provisions and as such are neither intended as a obligation, a treatment measure because the law allows only the possibility of treatment in hospitals which are mainly used by heptanonic therapy as a means of exportation. And which is mostly not proven to be adequate addicts, most of them also resort to it for the avoidance of monetary or prison sanctions. Similarly, short-term legal obligations of treatment do not lead to almost no results because the same obligation is prescribed for a period of three months to one year, which is an unequivocally too short period of healing. Experienced data both in the world and in the world, and particularly in the experience of different treatment communities that I stress have the highest successes in healings, suggest that treatment should be conducted for at least 2 years. So, we in HSP think it would be necessary to further educate both families and schools. Furthermore, children themselves are more intensively referred to the danger of drug consumption and the consequences of health and life. Encourage the Church to become more active in helping, preventing and treating addicts. Ensuring the means to enable additional education of police personnel, especially in small places to prevent and prevent abuse of intoxicating funds, and in particular to allow changes to the laws to be made to the most appropriate ways of treating addicts as extreme measures, and how to treat them both in terms of the length of the obligation, treatment measures. Unfortunately, since it is a very difficult and big problem, we are aware that it is not possible to solve this problem at once in the entire territory of the Republic of Croatia, which is extremely flooded with this problem, should already begin with smaller places where it would be easier and in a shorter period of time to solve this problem, of course with full and unreserved cooperation of all state and other institutions, and especially with the support and unconditional cooperation of police and justice, which will be based on amendments and regulations. And let me end the words of the President of the Parents' Association for Prevention and Non-Serb Treatment of Life Vit from the Great Port, let's not let the slowness and functioning of our system be one of the reasons for us to run out of our greatest wealth and these are our children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-31-0.u8930	I thank the distinguished representative, Ruža Tomasic. It is on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Representatives' Club Kajo Bucan.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-31-0.u8931	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian Democratic Community MPs' club discussed these proposals for the law of the government and the SDP's Club of Representatives, so allow me to state our position. The national strategy to combat drug abuse has been brought by the Croatian National Assembly since 1996 and is the basis for the operation of all authorities of the state administration, local and regional self-government bodies as well as NGOs. The Republic of Croatia is actively involved in regional cooperation in particular with countries that are on the so-called A Balkan route that goes through about 80% of the heroin spent in Europe. So, when it comes to drug trafficking, we are a very transit country and the activities resulting from international cooperation are also visible from an increased number of intoxicated drugs in our country. In December 2001, a law on the prevention of drug abuse was passed. Not one gram of drugs has been destroyed since then. During this period, the courts as a decision-making body on drug withdrawal did not establish a commission, a committee to monitor its destruction by the power of its verdicts. Why is that? We can assume the reason for not agreeing between competent ministries but ineffectiveness is obvious. The following year, 2002, shows except for an increase in the number of intoxicated drugs and an increase in the presence of opiate drugs on the market that is seen and through an increase in the number of hospitally treated people from opiated drugs compared to 2001. From 3067 to 4061 patients. By approximated exact quantities, police have seized 142 kg of heroin in the past 3 years, 1.76 tonnes of marijuana, 306 kilograms of cocaine and 153,000 Extasy tablets. Now part of the drug is stored in the MUP because of the skills skills, and part of it is located in secret stored locations. Of course, for years of storage, qualitative and quantitative changes in narcotics are possible, and this causes a variety of speculation about possible manipulations. Saving drugs costs a lot because they need special conditions and expensive insurance measures. In February 1999, a larger shipment of marijuana was discovered in Trieste, which was Croatia's final destination. After just a few days, the same shipment, which was held in Trieste, was publicly burned, and several tons of marijuana from the same shipment was seized in Croatia and publicly burned after several days but years of storage. According to the available data, the last major drug destruction occurred in October 2000 when in Zagreb's Jakushevec's burn site: 862 kilograms of cocaine, followed by 3.6 tonnes of marijuana in 1830 cans of fruit compote seized in international operations by the police of Slovenia, Austria, Italy, the Netherlands, Great Britain and Croatia. The Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community supports the proposed amendment to the applicable law on the prevention of drug abuse on the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and in Article 51(7), where it is said that the commission appointed by the Government is the body before which the destruction of intoxicating drugs is carried out, and at the proposal of the Minister of Interior, Minister of Health, Justice, Family and Head of the Office for the Prevention of Intoxication of Drug Intoxication. The law also complies with the provisions of the applicable law relating to the appropriate jurisdiction of certain ministries. In order to comply with that law, it is also proposed to amend the powers to adopt a specific programme of withdrawal measures on drug addicts and on occasional drug users. The proposed and amended law shall be given to the Minister responsible for Social Care by the power to adopt that programme, and the commission under this law will be appointed within 30 days of the date of entry into force of this Act. As regards the same, the proposal of the same law submitted by the SDP Club of Representatives, the Croatian Democratic Community Club considers that the government's proposal is more comprehensive, more systematic and legally justified to regulate this problem because the SDP's Club proposal is one part where the more favourable powers of the commission are entered into the jurisdiction of the judiciary, thus creating a precedent in our legal system, given that the Commission of the Government of the Republic of Croatia would be transferred to the jurisdiction of the courts. The proposed amendment to Article 51(7), except as it may allow for the manipulation of skills findings, is contrary to the provisions of Article 165(1), (2) and (3). The law on criminal proceedings which is prescribed when the verdict becomes a power of power and who is in charge of its execution. In the light of the fact that the exercise of the power of judgment, by which intoxicating drugs and the means to prepare them are withdrawn, allows the execution of such a decision by the court or other body responsible for its execution. In addition, it is the Croatian Democratic Community's Club of Representatives' opinion that the SDP's proposal to the SDP club incorrectly defines what is greater and fewer drugs. The Croatian Democratic Community's club supports the government's bill and remains open to considering quality proposals that could be added to this first reading, knowing that the impact of intoxicating drugs is not only a disease, mental or physical but also significant social implications. Often, under alleged campaign signs that are unfortunately present on our scene when it comes to drug abuse and drug abuse are counterproductive when it comes to the prevention of drug abuse. Camping and their alleged effects are seen among other things and in the devastating data of the number of deaths of intoxicating drugs. In 1997, there were 44 deaths in the Republic of Croatia, and in 2002, there were 86 deaths. The Croatian Democratic Community's club believes that the proposed amendment to this Proposal for a Law of the Government of the Republic of Croatia enables continuity, not a campaign in one segment and guarantees efficiency, professionality and thoroughness, and contributes to the overall stabilisation of the system for the prevention of drug abuse, and therefore we will give our vote for the government's proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-31-0.u8932	I would like to thank the esteemed representative of Bhutan. On behalf of the SDP Club, the esteemed representative Ivo Josipovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-31-0.u8933	Mr Vice-President, honourable fellow MPs and MPs, you have two almost identical texts and the SDP Club of course thanked those who correctly noted that it is already a common practice that the Government accepts the opposition initiatives in some way and then redefines them through its proposals that are very similar to the original proposal of the opposition. The fact that drugs are one of the biggest halls of our society but unfortunately one of the biggest businesses in this society very clearly shows that one seemingly innocent to say so, the technical change of law would have caused very good and reasoned debates by representatives who warned of a large spectrum, a broad spectrum and those problems that are not simply the subject of either the government or the SDP proposal. I think it's a serious indicator for the government that these data we've heard from both the HDZ Club and the HSP's Club of Representatives and the HSS and HSLS-DC, that they're serious and that it's probably true that these, these changes and additions that are proposed, don't fall into the essence of that drug problem that is in this society, but they serve something, which is something that was evident in practice that the drug seized is not destroying. Even a representative of the HDZ Club has sophisticatedly said that quantitative changes in the stored drug or in translation into a simpler language mean that drug abuse disappears from the warehouse and goes back to the illegal drug market. What may make me a little bit sad in this whole story is not the fact that an earlier proposal has now been taken, so it has been modified but saddens me that it has actually come to some extent I would say abuses, legal professions in that in the opinion the reasons for not accepting the SDP proposal which, in fact, the Government eventually accepted with some minor modifications. First of all, I'm worried that it's obvious that whoever prepared this opinion of the government is not actually seeing and having a whole legal system in the Republic of Croatia. Because it calls for a separate regulation and does not look at it in the context of the entire legal system, and especially not in the light of the fact that the law that is being amended does not only regulate the withdrawal of drugs which is or wants to be subject to criminal proceedings. But others, too, regulates the destruction of those drugs that will never, for various reasons, be the subject of criminal proceedings either because there is no perpetrator because the drug is leaving, whether because it is not the result of the criminal act but perhaps some other manipulations. It also disregards the fact that the Code of Penalty, with the exception of Article 168(3), has another 400 other articles, from which it is visible when dealing with those cases that can be served as evidence in a subsequent procedure that there are urgent investigative actions, that there are police practices prior to the initiation of criminal proceedings. But I think the story of it might come out of the context of this law. It just shows the level of profession in the preparation of different opinions. Also, the nature of the opposition to Article 23 of the government law is clearly declassified because the government in its proposal did the same thing that the SDPe did in its proposal. And also, at all, the highlight is likely to call for these laws to be amended by the provisions on the exercise of the power of judgment. For example, there is simply no word in the SDP proposal and it is quite correct that in the government's view such things are highlighted because it is simply not true. What should also be said is the fact that someone else executes if it is about burning and destroying drugs on the basis of a court ruling. To do so by another body is no precedent in the legal system of the Republic of Croatia, after all a very simple insight into the legislation says that, for example, for the execution of a prison sentence, the competent state administration is not itself a court. So on this simple example, you can see how much argumentation is not really true. And what they end up saying, of course, is that if you realized that the government's proposal was actually SDP's predicate in other words. Then I could say, well, let's uphold the law and really, there wouldn't be any problem. However, I say the difference of which of course not only because I speak in front of the SDP club but for the essential reasons I think that one of these twins is better developed and then SDP's is precisely because this proposal differentiates or opens up the possibility of differentiation in those cases in which drugs are destroyed outside the criminal proceedings. On the other hand, it provides for all those measures that apply all those measures provided for by the CAP in the event of a dose guarantee prior to the initiation of the criminal proceedings. Since there's probably still time for this twin to dress up on either side, here's how I plead to do it and, of course, on behalf of the SDpa club, I support that proposal that the club put into the parliamentary procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-31-0.u8934	I thank the esteemed representative Josipovic. On behalf of the SDSA Club, distinguished representative Vojislav Stanimirović.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-31-0.u8935	Your Honor, Vice President. Governments, respected colleagues and colleagues. We recently held our club on the bill on amendments and additions to the Law on the control of drug abuse. And the analyses of this bill have seen the intention of how effective it is as continuous as possible, and how we control that drug abuse is being destroyed. We believe that this government proposal also provides for the adoption of a programme for withdrawal from addiction and care about addicts on intoxicating drugs, which is very good. Before the law is completed, I think we should say something about measures to combat abuse. Such measures are envisaged through primary prevention, which involves continuous organisation, preventive educational programmes, through family, school, health institutions, associations, religious communities, public media. And a secondary prevention that implies renaissance and monitoring of occasional users of intoxicating drugs, and under two, early detection and treatment, rehabilitation or socialization of addicts. They would also have the implementation of supply reduction programmes and demand for intoxicating drugs as an essential element in this segment. How the law so far ineffectively regulates the procedure for the destruction of intoxicating drugs, which predicts that the courts should form commissions for its destruction by virtue of the power of their decisions. What he knows, we're not gonna do now. Because so far, the courts have not practically formed such committees on a regular basis. There is a certain question of what happened to drugs under the power of the judicial prejudice, where it ended, given in some institutions or forms that as legal persons had permission to use it as a raw material or it was destroyed. From the tihr azlog, there is great justification that the current law of amendment and that the government has a permanent commission that would work and that would continuously and regularly implement the destruction of the drug taken away. We believe that the law should be decident and that it should be destroyed exclusively and only those drugs that cannot be used as raw materials. We suggest that a member of the public media, also appointed by the government, be involved in the composition of the committee, so that the public has insight and control and that it in some way obliges the Government to report on what has been done with drug abuse. It would also be socially and medically useful to install into the law an obligation to make possible the realisation of drug-deprived assets, to legal persons, to those who have a license to make intoxicating drugs, such as pharmaceuticals, that these funds are intended to mean financial gain to be used for the purpose of creating better conditions for prevention and treatment of addiction. Our club considers and suggests that, with the above mentioned supplements and recommendations, the amendment and supplementation of the laws on the prevention of drug abuse should be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-31-0.u8936	I thank the esteemed representative Stanimirovic. On behalf of the club HNSa PGSa esteemed representative Miljenko Doric.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-31-0.u8937	Mr. Vice President, distinguished members of the government of a colleague and colleague. I will significantly shorten my exposure since here as the ninth club that has room to speak, I think a lot has already been said, in particular I would underline our agreement with what Mr. Josipovic said just before and almost entirely we can sign what he said. However, you will allow me a few sentences regarding the position of the HNS and PGS. First of all, there's an existing law on the prevention of drug abuse. This law we know came into force two and a half years ago. Since then, we've changed it three times today. So we changed it in 2002, 2003 and 2004. Clearly, citizens ask us if any law that we pass is really so bad, whether our laws are truly inconclusive. In this particular case, has the Ministry of Justice done anything to name the committees by any means or by any other means after making a decision on drug abuse. Do we always, at every opportunity, have to leave so much room for doubt and speculation? It seems to me that the current law did not essentially suffer from more serious shortcomings, but that there was not enough will, enough creativity, and above all enough responsibility to actually comply with the current law. Furthermore, if there was a two-year gap in the destruction of seized quantities of intoxicating drugs and if this issue has to be resolved as soon as possible, then the question of whether or not the government was supposed to refer this law to the Parliament by an emergency procedure rather than clearly by regular procedure as it was done. This is where we agree with our colleagues from the SDP and their proposal that we should have gone through an emergency procedure here. Finally, let's do a little recapitulation of everything we've been through in the last three months of an emergency procedure, and you'll surely agree with us that it should have worked more quickly and efficiently here. Finally, if in the amended law as the government proposes it, they are looking for failures, I'm afraid we will have this law back on the agenda by the year. That this does not happen to the HNS club PGS proposes to the Government to supplement its proposal by reading the second reading in a way that accurately defines the number of members of the commission, the time limit on which the commission is elected, whether it is a permanent or an ad hoc commission. The way the commission will arrange their work, their rules, their rules of procedure. Special manner and obligation to report to the Government on the results of its work. Further, it is necessary to define the criteria when the taken drugs will be sold as raw materials, when they are destroyed. We are not sure that this matter is clearly sufficiently well regulated by the Criminal Procedure Act. Furthermore, it is necessary to ensure public insight into the process of the destruction of drug confiscation and finally to regulate the administrative tasks of the ministry for this commission. I agree again with the SDP's proposal here that it is most logical to be the Ministry of Justice and that the government should take a number of solutions offered in this law that we are considering in parallel today. But as for the specific programme of withdrawal measures proposed in the future by the minister in charge of social care, I think there is no reason not to accept this amendment, because I personally must say that medicine can help those in the acute crisis, but it certainly cannot cure and permanently prevent anyone using any medicine and medicine. Therefore, the issue of the treatment communities and the issue of these programmes should indeed be left to other professions, i.e. interdisciplinary quality solved. A good program of course saves many lives, and a bad program is a waste of time, money, and I repeat young lives. But what we want to add to this program in front of the HNS and PGS is something else. We believe that both the programme and subsequent changes to that programme and a clear assessment of the quality of the implementation of these programmes should be returned to us to the parliamentary representatives so that we have insight, that we have control, that we have control over what is happening on the ground. Therefore, it is our proposal that programmes and reports on the implementation of these programmes should also be submitted to the Assembly Committees on Labour, Social Policy and Health, or the Committee on Family, Youth and Sport, so that colleagues and colleagues not only have insight into what is happening on the ground but also assume their share of responsibility for the possible failure of the state programme. We absolutely must assume our share of responsibility. I agree with what was said here also a little while ago for a pay phone, that when we talked about the most intelligent policy, we clearly said that it was a small pebble in the overall demographic policy. This is the second rock in this demographic policy, and therefore we must be very careful, closely monitoring what will happen on the ground with the realization of these programs. In the U.S. it took them 30 years, I repeat, 30 years to half the number of addicts from 40 million there in the '70s to about 7 million today. I hope that by using the experience of European countries in North America and others, we will significantly shorten the deadline and that finally the curve will go down. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-31-0.u8938	I thank the esteemed representative, Doric. I shall inform you that Article 207(2) is in accordance with Article 207(2). The Rules of Procedure have expired time to apply for a 10-minute hearing. This is what we ended up discussing in clubs. We're moving on to a 10-minute debate, an individual debate. It's time for the distinguished representative, Lucia Chikesh.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-31-0.u8939	Dear Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Representative of the Government, colleagues and colleagues. On 23 November 2001, Article 51 of the Law on the control of drug abuse was also adopted. Paragraph 7 of Article 51 states: "The destruction of intoxicating drugs, parts of plants or substances shall be carried out in front of the commission, which shall be designated by the body which has taken the decision to confiscate intoxicated drugs, parts of plants or substances". However, the appointment of this commission has lagged, and this has caused the accumulation of large quantities, even tons of various types of drugs in police stations are said to be missing. And if we add to this the worm of suspicion that has gotten into the public about possible drug abuses, then we realize that the damage caused by the unnamed commission is multiple. The Government of the Republic of Croatia therefore proposes the appointment of a permanent commission. The members of this committee would be representatives of a number of resolutions in which the work is part of law enforcement in connection with the abuse of intoxicating drugs. So the commission would be representatives of the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of Health and Social Care, the Office for the Prevention of Drug Abuse, as well as the Croatian Journalist Society. These amendments to the Law on drug abuse proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia are necessary and I propose and support them in full. The destruction of drug confiscation is one of the important mechanisms for reducing drug abuse. This is how we reduce the supply of intoxicating drugs. If we add this to the demand reduction whether it is the primary result of primary prevention or secondary treatment, the positive results will be significant. These two systems or these two mechanisms in the field of drug abuse must work both simultaneously and efficiently and then the synergistic effect is not questioned. Of all existing problems in the Republic of Croatia, the problem of drug abuse is one of the most significant, and would dare say the hardest, almost national problem number 1. There is not a single question that everyone is interested in as regards this issue, therefore, all doubts here need to be removed. In the Republic of Croatia, there are between 15 and 20 thousand heavy addicts, since it is about young people, this is our big social and medical and economic problem and deserves all our attention and our commitment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-31-0.u8940	I would like to thank the esteemed representative of Chikesh. It's time for the Honorable Representative Drago Prgomett.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-31-0.u8941	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Every law that regulates such sensitive issues as this when it comes to drug abuse is, in general, really causing the attention of the Croatian Parliament, as well as the public, the media and the citizenship of the Republic of Croatia, so obviously this is today and when it comes to these changes to the Law. So you really shouldn't close your eyes to one problem that's our reality. If you remember well 20 years ago, we watched the destruction of large marijuana and hemp fields in other parts of the world. Today, if you read a little bit about Zagreb's mountain, it is no surprise to find such fields on your own. Therefore, it is a public-health problem, first of all, but a disease that came out of those frameworks when the whim was rich rather than becoming a problem to meet both the poor and the rich and we can really speak in the right sense of the state problem. As a medic here, and as a doctor, I would first of all appeal to the decision making and implementation of those decisions that speak in favour of strengthening education, strengthening preventive measures, sensitizing the public, internationalising the problem, so all that should ultimately prevent drug abuse, and take account of the less clearly in this section which speaks, first of all, of the criminal problem. Today it is before us, today there are two laws that are truly very similar. I would have avoided some political debates here about whether one law a month before or before, or why such a change has not been made since 2001. Because I think both proposals are in good interest. This content or better to say legal differences are, however, in support of the Government's proposal for a bill which, in some ways, determines the way in which drugs are destroyed and avoids one situation where, through powerless judgments, we bring into a situation of destruction of evidence, manipulation of facts, so that I'm afraid, we don't put more interest payments on those who have been smuggling drugs. As far as the media presentation is concerned, I personally don't think there are any interior ministers in the world who will be very happy to be photographed when it comes to such an act as the burning of drugs, but I will be honest with you, I call on the government, and I think that in one segment it might be possible to avoid the possibility, to think about manipulations or the public beyond this problem, that even in the final proposal, this provision may be introduced that the media also get the legal possibility of such situations, therefore, of destroying drug abuse. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-31-0.u8942	I'd like to thank the esteemed representative Prgomet. It is up to Commissioner Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-31-0.u8943	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. It is true whenever one legal issue, at least one segment of the section concerns these important and important issues, then of course the width and interest of all MPs is increased. That's normal because unfortunately drugs are national, but also an international problem. It has become a major threat not only to the lives and health of people, especially young people, but also to the economic development of the country. More than one country has joined various international conventions, and all of them have concluded together, these countries, something that could also apply to our country. That the effectiveness of repression does not satisfy, that school programs do not include all schools and that they are not enough, that early detection measures of drug consumption prove ineffective and that in the penalty system, especially in prisons, the situation has deteriorated significantly because we have a population like this. However, our strategy on this, only most generally I'm going to say, is just one thoughtful and meaningful procedure regarding repression. Here, we will soon have on the agenda and changes to the minor amendments to the Penal Code that do not regulate, i.e. they do not want to improve this issue and those who are the most frequent victim, this youth continues to fall under criminal repression, which leads us to simply atrophied both the police and the judicial, especially the criminal justice system here because the armies of young people daily, here at this very moment, turn on all municipal halls, or halls of municipal courts, to most of which is the youth who owned the drugs. And very rarely, the exception is when a judicial system is caught with manufacturers, drug dealers. So it's kind of a state that the former government tried to solve, but it seems that this power in that sense has no hearing. Namely, what's this about? Concerning data both from the State's Attorney's Office and courts, for the year 2000 and is constantly growing. So, self-crimination of drug possession didn't lead to drug suppression, and that was the main motive of the original incrimination, but in fact, we keep growing. And that's what our courts do. The total amount of crime is involved only in the possession of drugs for one year close to 75%, and in minors over 75% of all crimes of drug abuse. It's not one meaningful, rational way for the state to fight this danger. And in the total mass of your crime, only possession of drugs is close to 20%. So, what's left to the courts? To deal with four more types of objects. So it is obvious that this has led to negative repercussions because it has increased and therefore, the number of consummations has not been reduced, atrophy, and I particularly stress this, our police and judicial system that must deal with this problem. So, the rest are out of reach for the ones to be really hit, the drug lords, the drug dealers. And then comes our Law that only complements, therefore, this Law on the Prevention of Drug Abuse, which was passed during the former government, and the programme was also adopted, therefore, on the basis of a national strategy, a programme of drug control measures has been adopted. It has already been said here, our representative who spoke on behalf of the club, Professor Josipovic, has made it very clear that they have already come from other clubs once again, one finding that it is again about one of the twins. So the ruling party reacted to the SDP initiative. And someone said it was about twins, but in any case, he was well aware of fellow Josipovic, if it was about twins, then in the sense that this bill is one, one more developed than the two, and that he should certainly be given a chance to live. But obviously, what is the finding of events and the strength to do so will not be so, but not for the first time. However,... It's not about twins, because after a month and a half, the government just reacted, after the SDP Club passed this bill, a bill on amendments and additions to the drug abuse laws. and in no way is the Government's proposal more precise or comprehensive. [[for banging paper on microphone, the pay phone doesn't understand]] The government's proposal only says, which is the composition of the commission and nothing else. Well, that's not the solution to the problem itself. It is partly because the courts did not really act in accordance with the Law on the control of drug abuse. But there is no need to wonder why they did not act, for on a daily basis they have a December of 10, 20 of such cases, in smaller courts, or in the middle courts of municipal jurisdiction. And just of course it's not an excuse why they didn't follow the law. But with all that regulation, we simply impose an impossible task on them and ineffective. Now, what matters most is that the drugs are destroyed. And we now have to concentrate here our debate about it. Not much of a commentary on the drug problem, as it was from the beginning some who wanted to essentially divorce the situation, so when the public listens to us here we talk about drugs, about drug problems, about the causes of drugs, and here the problem arises the simplest, how that other body of persecution, the judicial bodies came, how it should be destroyed. It's very simple. As the SDP Club suggests, because it has also become a problem. Then how effective are we gonna be in drug control, when we're having a problem with how the drugs that have come to be destroyed in the first place? But it's not just the destruction of drugs after the power of power, or after the verdict in which the court then takes a precaution. It's the problem of drugs and the investigation process, and during the entire criminal procedure, because they're known situations that a huge amount of drugs has been seized, and the perpetrator is unknown and who knows if they'll ever be known. What about that drug? Under such a proposal, or by not solving the situation, the Government's proposal does not address the situation at all, and these situations are not rare. And why aren't they rare? Because that's exactly what I was saying, and what are our courts doing? One pill. And when they come into possession of a huge amount of drugs, then most often the perpetrator is unknown and cannot be reached. And it won't be possible to get to him as long as the judiciary is exhausted in small things and lewd things, that is, where it hits victims, not organisers of such dangerous crime. So it's really a question of whether we want to look at this situation from that point of view. So the government's proposal doesn't solve the problem at all. And what the government thinks about our legal proposal for us to enter is that the SDP proposal enters the prerogative court. It's not true, because always after the court's decision, this is just a way of execution, so courts don't execute their decisions, they usually execute them by the executive body, whether they're regular authorities, or someone else, as it's legal and certain. So I don't think the government's proposal solves anything. He's only talking about representatives of individual ministries. But it's questionable how and how it's going to deal with small amounts of drugs, which is exactly what SDP's proposal is talking about. Because the difference in that sense is bigger and smaller. Because it will be extremely uneconomical, and huge resources will be spent so that one commission will circle around Croatia, and every once in a while destroying these small and small amounts of drugs. So our biggest problem is the destruction of these huge amounts of drugs, and not only after a powerful decision, but I especially stress when the perpetrator is unknown, when it can't come to him, or maybe it's also an out-of-date persecution, because this has often happened, given that legendary amendment to the Penal Code of 97... [[speaks off, can't be heard]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-31-0.u8944	I thank the distinguished representative Anticevic-Marinović. It is next to the honourable representative of Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-31-0.u8945	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Professor Josipovic, I will speak on behalf of the SDP Club, said these two legislative proposals are twins. I don't think it's twins, because twins are born at the same time or with a small time difference, and these two proposals were born, light days were seen by a month difference. So it would be better to say that this government proposal is clearly a clone of SDP's proposal. ... This continues with one practice, that the government prescribes the opposition's legal proposals. [[speaks off, can't be heard]] It thus shows its unnamedness on the one hand, on the other hand, indemnity. Irrespective of what he's cheating on. And democracy because there is no strength to accept a good proposal just because it comes from the opposition ranks. So if you need to fix it with an amendment, it can always be fixed. But especially when it comes to such legal proposals that are not ideological in nature, which do not depend on which political platform is represented by this or that party, which are simply in the interest of the general good. What changes in these two legislative proposals? Well, the thing that needs to be changed is changing. So far, the court is supposed to appoint committees, and now the government needs to do it. The change needs to be introduced, because the courts did not name the commissions, therefore, did not destroy drugs, because it had no one to destroy. There's both two suggestions in it identical. What makes them different? The SDPs are proposed to do so immediately, not waiting for a judicial verdict and, in any case, for the end of the criminal proceedings. The government, it suggests, is waiting anyway. However, the question arises, what about those drugs seized where there is no criminal procedure, whether because the perpetrator has not been discovered or for any other reason? So we ask the government how to destroy these drugs? Does she have that solution in her bill of law? We don't see him. And it would be good to introduce that solution into the legal proposal. So my call to the government is, when you've already overwrited everything else, and then overrule this, but solve that problem. Because he will remain unsolved. So the smaller mistake is to overwrite another sentence, than to want to be original and different from the SDP's proposal, and leave the problem unresolved. That's not good. But there's one more important thing than all this. What will the adoption of this law solve? I suppose Vladin will be adopted. What's he gonna do? Drug destruction? - He won't. For another reason. Not because the bill is bad, but because there's no place to destroy drugs. In Croatia, there is one single combustion plant for the destruction of hazardous waste. It's Puto in Zagreb. The road's not working. The path does not work, and in addition, Puto has been obtained to solve one entirely different problem of the recovery of the Yakushevec. And it's a mobile burner, which was obtained for that purpose now. After the fire at Puto's warehouse, resistance is growing in Zagreb. To make Puto work again at all. Citizens' resistance is growing. And the question is, what's going to happen to the road? It's a legal, real problem that lies ahead of the government. The government rather than prescribing good legal proposals, it should solve this problem, find a location, agree with local self-government that there is no resistance to citizens to such a location, obtain a burner and put into office. Because everything that we bring here now will be established by the commission, everything will be done, what will be the commission's charge of burning drugs? No, because that drug won't be burned any further, it stays in those same warehouses on those same shelves where it is now. And after this law is passed. Therefore, my most serious call to the government is to resolve this issue as soon as possible. And let's say, in the draft budget for next year, we see the item, we see the item, we see the purchase, we see the purchase, we see the purchase, we see the firehouse, we see the waste disposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-31-0.u8946	I thank the distinguished representative, Stazic. For correcting the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Kajo Bucan.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-31-0.u8947	Mr. Vice-President, I am correcting the inaccuracies of my fellow Stazic, namely that this Government Act is a clone, obviously not by the notion of a clone that implies identical genetic material, I hereby deny in this way the right to speak of this government's bill of law. And it's not true that this government, Mr. Stazic, is too late with the idea. This government has, about 70 days since its session, referred to the parliamentary procedure of this law, and with the implementation of the existing law, been delayed by the past government, with two, at least two years late.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-31-0.u8948	I thank the esteemed representative Kaja Bucana. When medical terminology is available, twins may also be born within a month. It is next to the distinguished representative Mirjana Brnadić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-31-0.u8949	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen. Proposed to amend the Law on the control of the abuse of intoxicating drugs submitted to the Croatian Parliament by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the permanent commission before which the destruction of intoxicating drugs, plants or substances is appointed by the Government. In my opinion, this is the right solution that guarantees that the destruction of drugs will indeed take place in time, not as before when neither the commission was established nor the destruction of drugs has been carried out in the past two years. As much as we look forward to the news of the seized large or smaller quantities of various drugs, the same public need to be followed up by the destruction of drugs that will be welcomed in the public and will strengthen confidence in the institutions of the state. Certainly, the debate on the amendments to the laws on drug abuse cannot only focus on the concrete changes proposed by the Government and which I support which were necessary because the abuse of intoxicating drugs endangers the entire Croatian society and the whole world. So that's how I'm gonna look back with a few words about this problem. I would not now talk about prevention, treatment and rehabilitation of addicts, damage reduction programmes, resociation of addicts and all other measures and programmes to combat drug abuse that have so far been spoken of in this House of Commons. I'd already quote a story from a book that says, "He who starts to deal with drug treatment looks like a man standing on the riverbank and sees a person drowning, jumps to her aid, pulls her out to shore, then sees another, jumps again, while he sees the third, fourth, and slightly more tired of seeing someone coming along the coast and asks him to help get them out. This one turns him away, and no, I'm going upriver to see why they're jumping into the water." First, I would refer to the truth about drugs, and telling the truth about drugs means not overestimating or underestimating the dangers of their abuse. By continuing to avoid openly speaking about drugs in either family, school, media, etc., we leave it to young people that in a world of drugs that are certainly interested in guessing themselves or worse, to be informed by drug addicts or drug traffickers themselves. What's more, the street sales itself and the creation of new drug addicts and drugs are being shown in a positive and harmless light. By telling the truth about drugs and there are largely no forgotten drugs, tobacco and alcohol, it is important to convince young people that the short-term pleasure, relaxation and forgetting of life’s problems that make it possible for drugs not to be overpriced by even deeper decline with the same misery that they came from. No, a small number of young people ended up in a mental institution, a courtroom, and unfortunately in a morgue. I am from Zadar, and unfortunately I have to say that in my city, a large number of young people who have lost their jobs due to drug addiction have lost their jobs, exhausted and broken their families and many have lost their lives. Young people do drugs for fun and pleasure. To make each other better friends, they do drugs to relax, to forget about the ugly reality. They're drugging to stop feeling miserable, tense, depressed, to finally feel free, alive. They generally think easily that the story of becoming addicted to them is not valid and that they can control addiction. At the same time, they do not notice that drugs are slowly intruding into all the pores of their lives and gradually losing the world’s experience with a bright brain. The victim gets into a drug trap because without drugs, he can't do it anymore. For all the above drugs, the high price of a ruined life, a poor and despised addict, is paid. In a better case, if you manage to get out of hell, the price is again paid in lost health, lost to the most beautiful part of youth spent through years of drug use, lost life opportunities, a wounded soul that will probably never heal. To give your hand to any addict who asks for help is an obligation for all of us and thus contribute to a general tolerance that will surely convince the young man to accept healthier lifestyles. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-31-0.u8950	I thank the honourable representative. It is up to the honourable representative, Joseph Leko.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-31-0.u8951	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. For the assessment of two proposals for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the laws on the prevention of drug abuse, I would say so. Between us in the Parliament and, above all, there is no dispute in society, there is no dispute that our society and our country are not effective in countering drug abuse. In fact, both official data and public information means claim that drug abuse is on the rise. If so, and it seems to me that it is, then these two bill proposals should be observed from a point of view that can be achieved in countering the abuse of intoxicating drugs. Neither one of them is controversial, we heard, from the point of view of the legal system. It's not controversial. Both solutions can be good, no matter how late the Government has made the proposal, let us be realistic, and let us both look from a point of view that can contribute more. In my court, the government's bill doesn't solve the problem we're talking about. Both proposals require the appointment of a commission from the government. So that's where we're identical. The composition of the commission is less important, but we can talk about it. Both demand the destruction of drugs. That's where we differ. The government remains with its proposal after the power of decision. In the SDP, we consider it a danger, and the danger of drug abuse among us is undeniable, and that is legally possible. Drugs should be destroyed before, and not placed in warehouses, and that inappropriate warehouses, increase costs, and most importantly, nobody here has challenged the danger of returning from such a drug warehouse to, to, to, to, to, to the underground drug market. So the SDP's goal is to increase efficiency in countering drug abuse by safeguarding or preserving evidence. Well, according to HDZ's proposal, the president of the court or the judge will not go destroying drugs. There'll be a commission again. There'll be a commission again. Therefore, if only one of the reasons valid were to go in favour of the SDP proposal, which is that it is absolutely certain to eliminate the possibility of returning drugs from the underground market in the Republic of Croatia again, it would be wise for the Government to consider the SDP proposal once again and adopt at least that it is possible to destroy drugs in accordance with the legal system of the Republic of Croatia, safeguarding evidence even before the process is completed. The more colleagues and colleagues stated, there are cases in practice when there is no criminal procedure, and there is a drug and there is the possibility of being abused and re-returned to the underground drug market in the Republic of Croatia. Dear colleagues and colleagues, therefore, the problem is to destroy drugs and when there is no criminal procedure for, to put these drugs into the underground market. So we agreed that the courts weren't effective in this area, we're not going into another area now. That is why the SDP proposal, by my court, was an appropriate weight of the problem and the most important problem in this problem is being addressed. I don't have to suggest once again that the government, no matter where the proposal comes from, consider the essence of the problem that we're trying to solve here, to reduce the costs of storage, storage, but most importantly to prevent drug returns from our warehouses to, to the underground drug market. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-31-0.u8952	I'd like to thank the esteemed representative, Leckie. It's time for the honourable representative of Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-31-0.u8953	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Allow me to point out in my discussion something directly related to Article 1 of the proposed amendments and additions, i.e. the specific programme of withdrawal measures and other concerns of addicts. After a few years of trying and wandering into the concept of state institutions that would be dealing with rehab and treatment, prevention was done, last year the parent law was amended into which, according to which existing centres for prevention of addiction, whether it is a parish or city centres, they should be transferred to jurisdiction and to the Public Health Office. For years, the Institute of Public Health has been very resilient to take over these centres and since the law has been amended for several months, using the presence of Mr. Secretary of State, it would be very good to get the information as to how many county and city centres have gone into the Public Health Office because these centres are also part of an organization, institution or organisations that are involved in helping addicts. ... Because, surely, half of these centers were in heaven and on earth at the time of establishment because there were no adequate legal regulations in their organization, structure, founding rights and funding. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] What else is important when we talk about a programme to help addicts and talk about possible, and the law, it is clear that this work can be dealt with by religious communities, associations, legal and physical persons, is there any indication of how much capacity all these institutions have, regardless of the form of ownership and structure and organisation, how much capacity? How much infrastructure we have in existing capacities that we can deal with. So for how much capacity will this programme be prescribed by the Government, or by the Minister in charge? So we're talking about the problem of addiction, we're talking about the need for a special programme, we're talking about the need for the state to organise it, but I didn't notice that in all these discussions they were giving information on how much capacity Croatia has to deal with the implementation of this programme, which is the subject of Article 1 of the amendment and addition. And finally, behind everything, every program, every prevention, every aid of addiction, and behind the need to destroy the seized drug, we come up with a question of money. I've carefully tried to analyze the state budget for this year and if I haven't made a mistake then in this year the structure of predictable funds is approximately the next. The office has a budget of 5 million 158 thousand kuna, of which more than 3 million funds for the work and functioning of the office, and 2 million and 45 thousand are foreseen to transfer to organisations, associations and communities in the area of prevention and assistance to addicts. In the Ministry of Finance, the chapter of customs is 309,000 kuna for this year, so I assume it's either education or technical equipment of the customs service for that part of the job. The Ministry of Education has 871 thousand guesses that it's about school preventive programs that back in the last 3.4 years in especially high schools and elementary schools work somewhere better somewhere else. In the Ministry of Health and Social Care there is one item of a million 740 thousand for prevention and 4 and a half million kuna for treatment communities, but these 4 and a half million kunas are made up of dedicated funds for investment in, in facilities or facilities. And in the Department of Justice, I found 150 grand meant to fight drugs. I've summed this up and I've reached the amount of 12 million 419 thousand of which is 4 and a half million facilities, 3 million operating office costs and there are 4 million 919 thousand left to cover the costs of prevention in the school system, the social system, the health system, and all aid programmes and treatment of addicts. Those who have dealt with this in recent years will be able to best assess what 4 million 900 in all of Croatia means for complete firstborn and treatment of addicts and with the fact that probably part of the money for these purposes is provided in county budgets and larger or two three cities in the Republic of Croatia. I don't believe that when that figure is added up to 8 million kunas, since I haven't found a single item in the budget structure, so when we solve the issue of this magical knot who's going to name a committee that's going to light or prepare drugs for ignition, obviously we're going to export drugs. If we were to destroy it abroad, we'd only pay that export because we don't have the capacity to destroy it, but nowhere in the budget, and I don't know from this bill who's going to finance it, because in the judiciary, I said, for the whole year there's 150 thousand kuna. So if Mr. Secretary of State knows the answer to ggde suu, it would be good to see how much funding is planned for this year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-31-0.u8954	I'd like to thank the esteemed representative, Lesar. It is up to the honourable representative Ivan Bagarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-31-0.u8955	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of fellow prisoners. Since a large number of doctors sit in this House, they well know that tobacco is actually an alcoholic. And drugs are high risks that cause disease addiction. And that actually among the 10 leading risks are all of these. I believe this is actually the government's proposal to actually intervene among others with a view to resolving this great problem. For the sake of the public, I think we need to show a few data in terms of what the figures mean today's drug problem in Croatia. After that, I will also present my vision or a proposal for measures of experts in Croatia who are all dealing with this problem. According to the register, people treated for the abuse of psychoactive drugs in 2002 were treated in the hospital in 2002, 444 and 497, and during the entire period from 96 to 2000, 1158 were treated, so they were significantly increased due to horns. When it comes to counties, then the number of people treated at 100 thousand ondonso is the highest in Istarskokj 307 of them, while the smallest in Međimurje 119. And in all of Croatia there are 130. The age of the sick is also very important as an argument in terms of the major problem of the disease. So actually below 16 years of treatment was 1.2% the highest number of people being treated is actually between 16 and 25 years of age. There are also those who are being treated above a very old age. Because drugs die. When it comes to working status, not only do you treat people who are unemployed. It's the employees, so it's the employees. So 20% of the people in the field were treated, unemployed 50%. Drug disease loses its job because man is incompetent, and that's actually why it's such a big percentage. Among the students was 13%. Students, 7% of pensioners, only 3%. When it comes to referring to treatment, it is important to note that people themselves show a desire to be treated and he 46%. So on a personal request, the family took part in 20%. So the family effort. Also, they do not suffer from drugs or disease-related addictions only by homeless people, so they are people who live in the family and they are 84%. while the homeless is only 0.2% and single is 8%. Other diseases go along with drugs, so that 70 percent of people in that group treated with hepatitis C are positive, Hapatitis B is 27% while HIV is a positive 1%. 0.2% of them get AIDS. And when it comes to the vaccination of these patients, then all 5% of them have been vaccinated. And the unvaccinated is therefore 95% which is a huge percentage. 60% of people who have been treated actually use common needles and all of them 40% have their own. So, and there's a need to take care of actually how to deliver needles to people who are already being treated not to use the same and not to extend the disease. It is very interesting to note that 29 people died in 1996 and 2002. 86th, so it's about this big. We could actually sum up the situation today in Croatia with the next assessment that drugs are one of the biggest problems in the Republic of Croatia, and that many countries have marked this a national problem. The reduction of drug abuse should include both supply reduction and demand reduction. This first of all requires both police and judicial and customs and legal proceedings, while the reduction of demand should in fact be defined and focused primarily on treatment. There's no one here said there's not a single question that everyone's so interested in, and I'd add a question that's been wrong enough. Is this time in Croatia we have 15 to 20 thousand heavy foster parents. Which is actually what I suggest as measures in terms of prevention and treatment. When it comes to treatment, treatment has proved to be the most important and only scientifically confirmed procedure in reducing drug-related problems. When it comes to the entry of those who need help in the system of healing, then it is significant to mention that in fact now on so-called. People spend 2 to 6 months on waiting lists. It is therefore necessary to allow better entry of those who need assistance in the system. When it comes to the budget someone talked here about the budget, and in the funds used to spend a pardon, to treat these patients, then it is important that a large portion of the funds are used irrationally. A range of forms of treatment should also be extended. So not only are doctors not only those who are giving help but everyone else and they should be introduced into the system. It is necessary to organise a permanent educational centre for the area of addiction, because there are great delusions in this area, as well as in professionals. And these delusions make it very difficult to treat and it is very important to remove them. It is a very important role for family medicine doctors and those who are in first contact with children, so the doctor of school medicine, because the identification of children with greater mental problems, and these are large candidates to become addicts and also to refer these to treatment. Other measures that need to be introduced, i.e. taking care of them, include increasing penalties for the possession and sale of drugs, avoiding heated discussions on issues that cannot improve the fight against drug abuse, for example. discussions on the legalisation of marijuana and the use of methadone. Then everything needs to be done to change the attitude in society toward drug use. The more positive the attitude against drugs the more young will start taking drugs. So the fact that we didn't ban the use of tobacco didn't lower the use of tobacco, people came to it more easily, and that would happen with drugs. It is also important to point out the exceptional role of sports in the prevention of addiction. Finally, on this data from the Croatian Institute of Public Health, Dr. Kuzman from the Department of Public Health and this is a certain way of thanking her and encouraging her to work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-31-0.u8956	I thank the esteemed representative Bagaric. It is up to the honourable representative, Stjepan Bačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-31-0.u8957	Dear Vice-President of the Parliament, the Honorable Representative of the Government, distinguished fellow MPs and MPs. In the debate so far, it is obvious how much concern is being taken about drug addiction and drug addiction and all these suggestions that we have heard so far will surely serve the government to include and consider these proposals seriously and to include them in another reading. So I wouldn't repeat everything that's been said, I'd look back on just a few things that I think are important to highlight, and this is the commission proposed by the new bill. The difference between the government's proposal and the SDP is that the Government's proposal practically introduces new developments in the formation of this commission. It consists of representatives of several factors, and it also speaks of the fact that this commission must be formed quickly, so within 30 days of the date of entry into force of the law. The Government's proposal says that this commission is actually for an eyewitness and that it is intended for it, and the SDP's proposal says that this commission should practically take over some of the powers of the judicial authority, so that this commission is making a decision on the destruction of drugs. The problem has been highlighted with those cases where there is no known perpetrator and there is a danger that this drug after long lying in the places where it is kept, there is a danger that it may be returning to the market with some channels. This is certainly to be considered, but I think that other services should be kept in mind, and I think that the government's proposal that talks about it and about prevention, so in this proposal, the law also gives importance to all forms of prevention, that it is more comprehensive and that I support it. I expect the government to once again say, respect all these useful thinking, all these good suggestions and prepare a more quality proposal for the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-31-0.u8958	I thank the esteemed representative Bačić. It is next to the honourable representative Mate Brletić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-31-0.u8959	Mr. Vice President, representatives of the government, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. On the basis of the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the control of intoxicating drugs. In relation to drug society, three important dimensions can be spoken: drug supply, drug demand, and the damage that arises for an individual or society because of various aspects of drug use. Drug trafficking today is the most dishonest business, so no one should be surprised that there is a lot of money going around in the business, more drug trafficking means more addicts. Although in most countries drug trafficking is treated as a crime, addicts will do their utmost to reach drugs by risking health and life itself. Drugs most affect a young generation of which our country is no exception. Adolescence can be said to be the understanding of psychic lability, increased... in relation to peers, which is why it is a greater danger for young people to succumb to negative influences and take the wrong path that leads to conflict with the law. We all know that drug addiction is serious and because of it, but also because of the possibility of spreading other diseases such as AIDS and Hepatitis. Problem... The abuse of intoxicating drugs in the Republic of Croatia took intense proportions after the 1990s, and in the mid-90s there was a real epidemic, disease, drug addiction in us. [[You don't understand.]] According to the Croatian Institute of Public Health, the number of newly registered opiate addicts has moved between 850 and 1048 in the last three years and all types of addiction from 2000 to 2548 addicts. In 2002, 5811 addicts were treated in health institutions, hospitals and centres, 59.9% of addicts were unemployed. These data are very devastating. The law on the prevention of drug abuse is based on all laws in the area of criminal law, social and health care, economic business, international cooperation in the field of intoxicating drugs. The law prescribes the most important and complete... Based on the prevention of drug abuse. [[You don't understand.]] It lays down the conditions for the cultivation of plants from which intoxicating drugs, conditions for the production, possession and marketing of intoxicating drugs and substances that can be used for the manufacture of intoxicating drugs. Control of the cultivation of plants from which intoxicating drugs can be obtained and control of the production and possession, the trafficking of intoxicating drugs and substances that can be used for the production of intoxicating drugs. The law defines a system of prevention of addiction and assistance to addicts, occasional drug users and the place and role of institutions, NGOs in the system of care and assistance to addicts and occasional drug users. The resolution ministries and other authorities of the state administration have committed the law to implementing defined measures to combat drug abuse. But since its entry into force at the end of 2001, not much has been made in accordance with the legal provisions. The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the control of drug abuse does not significantly alter anything other than the harmonisation of the provisions of the applicable law relating to the jurisdiction of certain ministries. In accordance with their work, established by the law on the establishment and the work of the Ministry and the state administration organisations. It is proposed to amend the powers to adopt specific programmes for withdrawal of addiction and care for addicts that have not been adopted since the end of 2001. Under the current law, the programme was in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Health. The proposed amendments give power to the minister responsible for social care, which does not significantly change things. The problem is the implementation of the entire existing law, since even after all amendments and additions to the law, the following has not yet been solved. First, the Ministry of Disease Prevention at the Croatian Institute of Public Health with previous amendments to the Law gave up the formation of the Croatian Institute for Prevention and Diseases, Dependence, and it was agreed that, instead of the above mentioned and because of the financial nature, the costs would be around 20 million kuna per year, the Office for Disease Prevention of Dependence at the Croatian Institute for Public Health. Until today, however, nothing has been solved. Unfinished structure of the centre is not possible to fully unify until that service is formed. Secondly, the status of the Center for Prevention and Outpatient Treatment, centres still have no legal status resolved. Neither health institutions nor social care institutions nor NGOs. Employees are working on contractual relations, several hours a week, which is not enough, yet a network of addiction centres has not been created that should become branches of the county public health institutions in accordance with existing legal provisions. Thirdly, the same must be done as soon as possible, since the same drug addict law provides for a mandatory treatment measure in the healthcare institution, i.e. a withdrawal measure in the establishment of social care, association or other legal person authorised by the Minister in charge of social care. The question arises, where drug addicts will be treated if the problems mentioned above are not solved. The amendments and additions to the Law on the prevention of drug abuse since October 2003 also provide for measures to be taken for the perpetrator of the infringements referred to in Articles 54 to 63. Laws which are addicts of intoxicating drugs instead of the possibility so far, to impose a protection measure of treatment for 3 months to one year, to replace the release of a protective measure of compulsory treatment in a medical institution approved by the Ministry of Health, i.e. a safeguard measure of withdrawal from addiction in the establishment of social care, association or other legal person who has the approval of the Ministry of Labour and Social Care for the application of those measures, for a period of 3 months to 1 year. In addition to that infringement in Articles 54 to 63, it is said that so far, a fine with the amendments and additions to the Anti-abuse Act of Intoxicating Drugs has been proposed that the fine imposed will not be executed if the perpetrator, who is a drug addict, or occasional drug user, is not. The treatment procedure in a medical institution, i.e. the withdrawal procedure in a legal person, is successfully completed during the duration of the prescribed treatment measure, i.e. withdrawal. Furthermore, in the case of an addict who committed the offence for the first time, the protection measure of mandatory treatment, i.e. withdrawal, is declared on his own without giving a fine. In view of the above, as well as the new Law on Infringements which entered into force in October 2002, which, among other things, regulates and specific obligations which may apply to the minor perpetrator of the offence. Especially with regard to the part of drug abuse as well as to the provisions of the Law on the control of drug abuse. When it comes to preventing drug abuse, mechanisms and institutes have been created to support public authorities and other institutions to take social medical treatment and other preventive activities for the purpose of treatment, or withdrawal from addiction. Since the entry into force of the Law on the control of drug abuse, no specific programmes and measures have yet been adopted to combat drug abuse. The deadline for adoption was 2nd month 2002. A general programme of measures to combat drug abuse has not been adopted. The deadline for adoption was 2nd month 2002. There is no specific area in which a macaque intended for the production of intoxicating drugs can be grown. The deadline was 12 months 2002. It is not noteworthy that the amendments and additions to the Law on the control of drug abuse since 6 October 2003 also mention the co-operation with the Department of Social Care. The question arises whether this Institute will be formed at all. The law amending and supplementing the Law on the control of drug abuse, if not the same, needs to be amended. The same issue is related to the continued viability of the Office for the Prevention of Drug Abuse, which was established under the Law on the Prevention of Drug Abuse. At the end of the presentation, I note the discovery of drugs and its confiscation and the routes to which drugs come to the Republic of Croatia. The job is done by the Ministry of the Interior with unsatisfactory success. One of the strongest roads is the Balkan route with which drugs come to eastern, eastern countries in Croatia through the Bajakovo border crossings, Tovarnik, Iluk and other crossings. Amid the lack of technical resources, better coverage of the border area with more police towards Serbia-Montenegro has left behind better results on drug detection. For example. Police Administration of Vukovar-Srijemska...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-31-0.u8960	Time.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-31-0.u8961	...has a technique that's over 10 years old and we can't look for results in that area. To praise the police of the Vukovar-Srijem police department for the results so far and for the discovery of drugs at the Bajakovo border crossing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-31-0.u8962	I thank the esteemed representative Brletić. It is up to the distinguished representative Marin Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-31-0.u8963	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. We were able to find out on TV the other night that this burner that's mentioned a lot today doesn't actually work for the purpose of burning drugs, so someone who mentioned it might happen to us that we might, however, happen hypothetically to start exporting drugs, but not as drugs, but as burning material, so we can pay for that export. So in order to get rid of this drug contingent that managed to confiscate police might happen to her, since she can't burn them in Croatia, let's say she exports them to Austria and pays for the export to burn these drugs in Austria, for example. This in a drastic way speaks of the absurdity of the situation in which we have found ourselves and really of the necessity to bring about the legal changes that are proposed here. It's no secret, we've talked about drugs here many times, we've brought a national strategy against drug abuse, etc. It's no secret that drug consumption is a kind of excapism, an escape from reality. This is where the colleagues spoke in different ways. I only think that drugs, or drugs, can't be fought just by those who are everywhere on posters, not drugs, don't, don't, don't. It's like we imagined that people are a little something that in the process of socialization in the family, school, etc., when you teach him this-that, he'll learn how to behave. It's about people who are addicted, etc. I think the basis is not to avoid the "no" and use "yes." I think "life" also brings her to this and she doesn't do drugs. That it is therefore necessary to fight for this affirmative relationship to life to actually become dominant because if drug consumption is a form of self-destruction then we need to talk about the causes. So, about what makes people act like that and just changing the assumptions that drive someone to this kind of escape from reality, and that's not the only form of escape from reality. Someone mentioned alcoholism, etc. We're volunteering here. This country can even make a little of it, etc. This is where we behave, although alcoholism may be, if we look at numbers, that's what those who are dealing with it in detail, who are more likely to be destroyed by alcoholism. Maybe some drug consumption, but we're sensitive to drugs because they're still more affected, and that's what my colleague Bagaric mentioned in the year-olds most represented in those who are being treated, and then we see that these are between 15, 16 and 25 years old. So that this target group is somehow older and younger than that anyway, so this young population, and that's why we're so sensitive to it. Besides, I don't think we should fight just for the sick, for the sick we should fight for all the sick. But I need God to fight for the healthy so they don't get sick. And that means, like any other disease. Prevention is, so to prevent breast cancer, then you know what forms of early detection prevention are, etc. I think we should approach this a little differently. So, not only to prove ourselves to the sick but to try to prevent that part of a generation of young people or anyone else. Think or need, then, to reach for drugs as a form of escape, and for them often unbearable realities. Why are you insufferable? It's not that, I don't have to say materially a fortune or something that makes sense to life, insufferableness can stem from a series of other predispositions. There's always been and there'll always be reasons to escape from reality. We can now enter the realm of philosophy and wonder are nothing, what is it, what I know was once a world pain... It used to be an aspurous intrusion into life, a existentialist philosophy, like this, like that, nothingness, senselessness. [[/the speaker doesn't understand.]] But the fact is, when we ask these questions that we ask questions, it's actually about fighting for the purpose of life. And just maybe in an indirect way, we're getting into one of the most important issues of human beings at all. Why does a human being run away from life if he escapes? Why is he running away? And now I'd like to mention something, a human being and a drink. You see, in our tradition, we're lucky we don't have a tradition of consumption, no matter what happens in society. Still, we're such a society that we don't have a tradition of drug consumption. It's like some Eastern society where it's in tradition. But God, we have a tradition of drinking alcohol. From where I come from Dalmatia, from our Zagora, etc. So we have "drink it, drink it until the day of the white, who doesn't drink the Dalmatian" etc. You see, we like to stimulate through one form, creating a cultural pattern as one or a national identity and the desirable behavior of a chromachism, I don't know Croatian machinism where a man has to drink so much evidence, otherwise no slinders, fists, meatballs, as we say what I know, half-man and so forth. It seems to me that we are very careless here and that we are doing great damages that are often seemingly undetectable to us. Is it from this area that is hidden from alcoholism also stems from the society of destructive behaviors of that violence that we so often mention, etc., the normal thing that the most devastating combination of drugs plus alcohol, but it is a slightly more expensive form of escape from reality. So it's about the drugs being demoted as well. They democratized her, so she became cheap. We're not talking about the hardest drugs, it's cheap, so it became available. Of relative, of ecstasy, of which I know what. and behavioral style, lifestyle. So let's not forget that we are prone to imitation, style of life is a normal song, with us in Croatia there is no song that celebrates drugs. But you will in modern pop culture, what I know... sex and drugs and rock and roll,... famous songs, etc. which as a lifestyle as a way of identifying with something that looks advanced or desirable, to which in young age groups that have identified themselves with their idols, it's all something that affects our society, and in that it's not easy to manage, but at least let's find out what we can do to make what the police have seized to destroy it. [[/the speaker doesn't understand.]] I come from a... city from Split which was one of the most affected cities in the area of drugs and has proved to be some forms and fights against drug abuse and prevention, etc. Showed the results. So you can't say, you have to try. But I'm saying, it's one really big question not to mention our islands here, is in the great urban environments of agglomerations where there is so-called. a lonely pile of alienation, etc. One loneliness in the mass is a way of escape can be a drug. But also in small mestos when they're clogging south, and you don't have anywhere to look, and it's raining, it's not raining, I mean, it's simply that imperceptibility is really something that can lead to this. And one more thing, the basic question for me, if we agree to destroy this, I represent here what this SDP proposal proposes, but I think these proposals are close. But the basic question, are we going to hit on the young, the sick, that group that my colleague Bagaric mentioned between 16 and 25 years of age or the dealers? Are we going to hit the sick or the ones that actually led to them being sick? So let us be careful, regardless of the differences between the two of us that have appeared here, there will be more, around the Penal Code, that's another topic. But really, does a 15-year-old have to be prosecuted for burning a cigarette of marijuana to open his file, etc. Is he being forced into a world that he doesn't belong to, or must we fight to put an end to? And among other things, the crime mafia that is in our midst, organized crime about it is one of the preconditions that we can also cut a little bit better than we've done before. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-31-0.u8964	I thank the esteemed representative Jurjevic. It is up to the honourable representative Vladimir Šišljagic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-31-0.u8965	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, State Secretary, Honorable colleagues and fellow MPs. Here in the debate so far, we have actually had opportunities to hear a series of problems we face in Croatia, and regarding both treatment prevention and drug abuse in traffic, i.e. possession. Today, however, we have a proposal to amend and supplement laws on the prevention of drug abuse, as a sure result of an ineffective legal solution in the part that prescribes the execution of the destruction of intoxicating drugs, i.e. parts of the plant or substance. In fact, the courts that made the decision to take intoxicating drugs were required to appoint commissions, by virtue of the power of their decisions, before which the seized intoxicating drug could be destroyed. In recent years, the public has had opportunities to see to it that large quantities of intoxicating drugs have been seized. The defeat, however, is the fact that since December 2001, since the date of entry into force of the Law on the control of drug abuse, courts have not appointed a single commission before which the destruction of intoxicating drugs would be carried out. For me, then, a legitimate question to ask, what was actually going on in these two and a half years? and why did the competent courts not appoint a single commission before which the destruction of the intoxicating drugs would be carried out? For me as a doctor and persons who have been actively involved in the implementation of the national drug abuse strategy in the Republic of Croatia, this is an extremely interesting issue that would certainly require a wider debate on various modes, illegal trafficking and the use of intoxicating drugs, and particularly on the effectiveness of the implementation of the repressive part of the legislation in countering drug abuse. It is quite certain, however, that the lack of timely and controlled destruction of optimist drugs opens up the possibility of various abuses, including the possibility of drug abuse, or part of a confidant being visited by unauthorized persons. Since the current enforcement of drug abuse laws has proved ineffective in the part in which courts have not named a single commission before which the destruction of drugs would be carried out, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has proposed an amendment for quite understandable reasons to ensure the safe and timely destruction of the seized drug. Proposed to amend the applicable law, the Commission shall appoint the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the proposal of the Minister of the Interior, the Minister of Health responsible for Justice, the Minister of Family and the Head of the Office for the Prevention of Drug Abuse. While the chairman of the commission would be appointed from the ranks of the interior ministry's representatives. The establishment of a permanent commission would ensure the continued and controlled implementation of the destruction of stolen intoxicating drugs and prevent any and all possible drug abuse. Finally, I fully support the amendment and supplementation of the law on the prevention of drug abuse in the text proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. In the belief that he is an important but decisive step in the fight against the drug mafia and organised crime. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-31-0.u8966	I thank the esteemed representative Šišljagic. It's our guest, Walter Poropat.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-31-0.u8967	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. A monster called drugs becomes a daily topic of conversation and debate at all levels of our society. With this proposal for a law amending and supplementing the laws on the prevention of drug abuse, the Commission notes that it would be good to include the public directly through the media in the section on the Committee for the Exploitation of Intoxication Drugs. I also consider it important that the annual report on the intoxicating quantity of intoxicating drugs from the Ministry of the Interior and the report by the Commission on the destruction of intoxicating drugs should be linked to the transparency of use, i.e. the comparison. Furthermore, and not less importantly, it is known that the specific measures for the withdrawal of addiction and care of addictions were in the management of the Ministry of Health, which belongs to the Ministry of Health and Social Care under the current structure. It would not be acceptable for the above-mentioned problems to fall out of the department's health care area or into social care, which in practice would mean that addiction is not a disease but a social problem. I sincerely hope that this will not happen and I will only remind myself that all developed countries of the world have accepted the concept of addiction as a disease as defined by the World Health Organization. For both reason and reason, such a concept is best for addicts but also for society. I want to believe that the promoter will take into account what I have stated and to point out in particular that my presentation is based on the professional views of doctors from Istria and the Primorje-Gorski County who deal with this problem on a day-to-day basis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-31-0.u8968	I thank Mr. Representative. It's time for the Honorable Representative, Zeljko Kurtov.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-31-0.u8969	Dear Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I warn the minister in charge of social care, when he brings in a special programme for withdrawal from addiction to take special care of defenders who suffer from PTSD and are also addicts. The current programme is insufficiently effective and especially for this defence population. I suggest that specialised treatment communities be organised that can treat PTSD patients simultaneously and drug addicts. I was personally present at the takeover of defenders at the Vinograd hospital where the problem was that they did not have adequate therapy for such a population. These Secretary of State ask you to take care of this problem and take the necessary measures. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-31-0.u8970	I thank the esteemed representative of Kurt's. On behalf of the Club LIBRE, a five-minute debate was held by the distinguished representative William Herman.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-31-0.u8971	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues. The proposed amendments and additions to the Law on the prevention of drug abuse are moving towards the transfer of responsibilities for the destruction of intoxicating drugs from the judicial authorities to the authorities of the executive authority. This also results in an unnecessarily concentration of power in our view as regards the destruction of drug-absorbed drugs, the authorities of the executive authority and without real need and with minorisation of the role of the judicial authorities. Following the existing solutions, the courts, as bodies in charge of taking decisions on intoxicating drugs, were empowered to appoint a body before which enforcement would be carried out, to destroy them. These explanations that the existing solutions have not received the expected results should therefore be observed in the context of the failure to implement positive Croatian laws and not just their shortcomings. It would therefore be more desirable to act in the direction of more meaningful functioning and implications of existing laws rather than on their substantive amendment. That is, the transfer of power from the judicial authority to the authorities of the executive authority. We believe that a far more transparent and appropriate solution would be the establishment of a competent body, and we have already proposed that we control the destruction of stray opiates at the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia, which does not touch the content of the existing legal solutions. Moreover, such a solution is also in the spirit of the constitution of the guaranteed trio of the authorities without the paved interference of the executive authority in the work, operation, integrity and independence of those, legislative and judicial. In the context of changes, we should also pay attention to more active involvement in cooperation mechanisms with Union bodies, i.e. the Community, in the fight against drug trafficking and distribution. Further implementation of recommendations as they call it the Action Plan against Drugs in 2000/2004. As well as priorities in the protection of public health referred to in Article 152. The Treaty on European Community, or today the European Union. This is also pointed out in particular by the fact that cannabis remains one of the most commonly used drugs in the Member States of the Union. Further, rapid increase in amfetabin use. Because our premises literally cross the roads of illegal drug trafficking and other psychotropic substances from Southeast Europe from the Balkans, the postage to heroin trafficking, cocaine and cannabis. Because by joining the European Union, we will face the space of the largest production of synthetic drugs in this part of the world. Because by joining the European Union, we will face the space of the largest production of synthetic drugs in this part of the world. Because a coordinated, multidisciplinary, integrated and global strategy is necessary to combat trade and drug use. Because facing these problems is an unforgivable part of our socioeconomic development. And in particular, we stress the need to provide financial resources for the construction of a centre for the permanent destruction of intoxicating drugs, and right now and now. Because of all this, and contrary to improvisations and the indetermination of Club Libra repeatedly opposes the adoption of this Law. Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-31-0.u8972	I thank the esteemed representative Herman. On behalf of the HSP Club, distinguished representative Ruža Tomasic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-31-0.u8973	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. I'd just like to add a few more things, and that's when we talk about drug addicts, we need to consider more important facts. Drug addiction is a disease, and that's the only way we have to look at it. As it is a serious and particularly deadly disease that carries with it more and more other diseases such as AIDS, hepatitis must be paid exceptional attention to it in order to preserve our children that we have in the Republic of Croatia less and less. All indicators and our experiences suggest that the disease of addiction has spread to a large number of children and the situation is highly alarming. The mortality of newborns has also been increased as a result of their parents ’ addiction. Long-term experience is all about detoxification, i.e. physical cleansing of the drug organism is just the first step towards a final healing that usually takes two and more years. A quality cure for addicts requires the involvement of the entire society. As a rule, all addicts are looking for our help only to recognize it and help them regardless of the circumstances. In order to solve the problem in quality, we need to know a few more important facts, and these are: all the more difficult addicts, in order to get to the daily dose of drugs, must normally do at least one crime, which is drug dealing, theft and the like. Since we all know the processing and prison punishment of addicts ultimately does not give the expected effects but rather the opposite. After maintaining the sentence, the addict returns to the street and generally repeats all crimes and further intensifys them. In order to solve this problem better, we must through the laws provide addicts with the possibility of a conditional conviction of mandatory treatment in exchange for a prison sentence as well as for psychiatric treatment. This way we have a chance to solve the problem permanently. In solving this problem, we need to include a lot more of the many associations and treatment communities that have so far produced the only results in the continued cure of addicts and have given them all the necessary legal approvals that have so far not been able to pass. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-31-0.u8974	I thank the esteemed representative Tomasic. On behalf of the promoter, the esteemed representative Opačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-31-0.u8975	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Today, after three hours of discussion, we can conclude that in this house she was always present when drug toxicity was debated very high, therefore very high awareness that drugs are harmful, that we have to work a lot on prevention and that everything we do is never enough. So here's today's debate in these three hours has shown that MPs are also highly sensitive to this issue in this assembly. I therefore thank all those who, therefore, discussed the SDP Law initiative today on this issue. There weren't many concrete suggestions on how to improve our bill. Knowing the practice so far, we can be sure that the SDP proposal will be rejected in the first reading, that most in the Croatian Parliament will decide to release only the government's proposal in the second reading and we believe that, in any case, if this government proposal should come to an end, that today there have been enough of those who have said that drugs should be destroyed, so all of what has been seized, which is now stored somewhere in inappropriate warehouses for years now, because in an inappropriate way the warehouse requires increased funds from the Croatian budget on the one hand, and on the other hand, is therefore a potential possibility of abuse or better said therefore that one part of the drugs from those warehouses is found in Croatian markets and therefore again offers to our children. Therefore, we at the SDP Club only insist that the Government of the Republic of Croatia finds the modeality in which and who will therefore destroy drugs, of course, and what has opened up here is the place and the way the drugs will be destroyed in view of these problems that we have with the burner “Roto”. So that's, that's what was the intensity of our law to run some kind of debate and lead to one solution that would remove from the warehouse of this large amount of drugs that were seized, that were seized every day and therefore stored in that warehouse. Here's one more time on behalf of the SDP Club, thank you very much to everyone who's been discussing this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-31-0.u8976	I'd like to thank the Honorable Representative Opacic. On behalf of the Government, State Secretary at the Ministry of Health and Social Care Vladimir Bozikov.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-31-0.u8977	Dear Mr. Vice President, it's been almost three hours since I've been truly honored to be among you and to hear this problem from all the depths of your mind and soul. There is no currently discreet man in Croatia who would not know the size of this problem. In a dynamic debate, the representative of the esteemed Jurjevic, he threw one big social thought, but they dated 3 decades back and more than 30 years when we were not socially, sociologically prepared for the appearance of the easier arrival of money in, either in our shores where the representative spoke or who, the money that was brought by the gasterbitters or the money came from tourism or he would come from fishing when our children unprepared started to consume drugs. Later in terms of various styles of modernity it further deepened, clear and all the troubles we had during the aggression on our Croatia and liberation and so on and so on. The problem is truly crucial, great. He's very layered. He needs great up-to-date and practice primarily the profession, as well as the entire community. There is no segment of society that should not be involved. It's such a big problem, it's, that we all have to be aware of it and we are and we have to work on it. First, the government will go through the Croatian Institute of Public Health, it will surely go through all its counties because the system of public health services that exists in each county has been developed. It's one of the models that counsel Lesar spoke of, which is supported and to be developed. That's what it's all about. Second, the asset question. Surely we do not have enough resources for such a big problem and that surely in the next budgets, next year we will ask for more to be done on this problem. The intention of this government, which is practically a hundred days in the current position, is to see that the practical tromility of implementing the drug control law or destroying drug abuses, that the courts haven't done anything about it and it's offered to do it as soon as possible, the Complementary certainly has things in the proposal that SDPe gave, and what's complementary and what's good until it's clearly always stimulated. And our goal is the same for all of us to make as good a law as we can. The only thing we need to be careful about is that we do not come into conflict with the lawfulness of this article in paragraph 165. 2nd and 3rd, there must be a real power of judgment. There's no such rush I feel and that feeling that it can be misused. So everything can be misused, my use is misused by vaults, a country that has nuclear power can be used by someone using that code. Well, he had so many of those bunkers of SFRY leftovers that except for the ogre very well established to find the mechanisms that this drug really is being guarded and then destroyed. Why I say that, for practical reasons. It is not just a question of small dealers in Croatia we are indeed one of the thorny transition areas. And we are very interested in all European countries having eyes on us. All the roads go through this area that curves and historically either in that area which has been the passage of various roads and the crossing of various roads. This drug with ruthless ferocity penetrates these areas. You know that in our neighborhood, the minds of a lot of unspecified countries in our country also have a problem with drug dealing, and on the other hand, there is a lot better security than in Western countries. That our men can really walk free on the streets that no one will rip your bag off while you're passing. And some highly developed countries have these problems, but they have no less problems with drugs. Drugs should be contained in our intentions was indeed to be the law and to work on it as soon as possible, as well as all of us who are at this session of the Parliament want to be implemented as soon as possible in practice. We can't make out how many laws the law isn't enough if there's no monitoring of that law, unless there's no control of that law. Because before it was control and the judiciary wondered why no drug destruction had taken place, it might have improved. Since it didn't work right, our intention was really to make this part work. As far as the burner was concerned, it was a clear accident that the burner had accidentally burned down. Now the question is whether we're going to pay dearly to developed countries, so we have our own Croatian minds, so we're going to figure out if that burning would cost more in the next country richer then we're going to buy that technology and we're going to burn it down. I believe we'll all agree to that. Finally, I want to thank you all for very good suggestions, and be assured that the Government will take into account everything that is constructive that improves this law that this will indeed take into account. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-31-0.u8978	I thank Secretary of State Bozikov. Since there are no more applications for the debate, I am concluding a debate on this agenda point. The vote will take place on Friday and we will move to the next item of the agenda.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-31-0.u8979	Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the control of drug abuse, first reading, P.Z. No. 35. The bill promoter is the SDP Representatives' Club. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal from the working bodies, I am voting on the next conclusion. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the control of drug abuse, proposed by the SDP Representatives Club, is not adopted for the reasons set out in the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, to the reports of the working bodies. Who's in favour of this proposal's conclusion? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? I find that with 76 votes in favour, 37 against and 2 abstentions, the proposed conclusion has been adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-31-0.u9050	We're moving to the next item of the agenda. - Final draft law on cultural councils; emergency procedure, first and second reading; P.Z. No. 64; The Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and when establishing the agenda, we accepted the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of this Act. In accordance with Article 159, you have received the proposal for an act. The Registrar's emergency procedure unites the first and second readings of the law. Am, the amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate pursuant to Article 164 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Education, Science and Culture. You received the reports at the session. Does the applicant's representative want to further explain the proposal? Minister of Government Bozo Bishop.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-31-0.u9051	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor. The proposal for a new law on cultural councils has been developed to improve the system of cultural councils and create fundamental assumptions for further decentralisation and democratisation in the area of culture. The proposed law on cultural councils is not a final solution, but only a transitional phase in further democratisation and decentralisation into culture. The objective is to open up the possibility of a more qualitative decision on cultural policy at all levels in the next period of tax on the donor and the profit tax increased by the state to units of local and regional self-government. The law prescribes levels at which the establishment of cultural councils at the Ministry of Culture is mandatory to set up councils for music and musical stage art, drama arts, film and cinematography, books and publishing, art as well as new, councils for international cultural cooperation and European integration. Respecting the proposal and amendment of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture, we are ready to accept and propose an amendment and set up a council for new media cultures. Cultural councils are also established at the level of the county and towns, with more than 40,000 inhabitants, in order to address the centralised decision-making at the state level, on programmes of regional or local interest. The establishment of these councils is only the first step. In the process of further decentralisation, which will monitor the proper decentralisation of financial resources with which the council will decide on public needs for the culture of counties and major cities. Countys and cities will decide for themselves the number of councils. The law also provides other cities and municipalities with the possibility of establishing cultural councils if they are to be assessed. The new law clearly determines the part of the cultural councils, and we hold particularly significant councils for international cultural co-operation, and European integration, whose work and action will contribute to a better quality representation of Croatian culture in Europe and the world. Special news in the law is the regulation of the obligation for cultural councils to pay particular attention in their field of action to fostering the needs of culture and art in order to reduce and create cultural creation. The task of cultural councils is to co-determine cultural policy and to propose objectives and measures for its implementation. Proposal for a programme of public needs in culture for which funds are provided from the state budget, i.e. the budget of the counties, cities or generalities. The provision of expert assistance to the Minister in the adoption and implementation of annual and long-term plans, the provision of professional bases and the opinion of initiatives and proposals, and according to the Budget Implementation Act, is one person responsible for the implementation of the state budget and its division and for this reason, with the cultural councils, urgently cooperates and co-operates. The proposed law prescribes the selection and appointment and resolution of members of cultural councils. They're founded at the Ministry of Culture. The Minister of Culture shall initiate the selection procedure for members, appoint members of the Council at the Ministry of Culture by invitation to the institutions and associations in the field of art, culture, to propose to the persons and from the proposals submitted. This leaves the complicated process of appointment by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which has led to the appointment of members on a proposal from the Minister of Culture. The ineffective implementation of the applicable law is witnessed by a series of data according to which individual councils have operated in the british composition for more than a year because of numerous resignations without the appointment of new members. In addition to these reasons, it should be observed that the cultural councils of the bodies carrying out the tasks of the Ministry of Culture, and it is perfectly natural to appoint them in this way and at that level. Discussing some of the objections raised in the public debate as well as in the media, such as the objection that the councils are being converted into committees, it is not true, but it is a difference in responsibility. The committees had an advisory character, and the councils co-determined. The National Council for Culture under the current law should have established a proposal for a design programme of culture. However, in two years of existence, the National Council has not established a proposal for a national programme. The Council was to coordinate and coordinate the work of cultural councils, however, it did not perform that task because it was held with only one session. The National Council for Culture, as proposed by the new law, is the advisory body of the Minister, which provides expert assistance in establishing a strategy for cultural development. Under the new law, the minister will also be able to call on the presidents of the county and city councils for culture at national council meetings and that is another form of democratisation. Now allow me a few words about the autonomous decision of the cultural councils of the Ministry of Culture and in public their work. In this public debate and the media as mentioned earlier, it was mentioned that the proposed law abolished the autonomous decision of the cultural councils and the transparency of their decision-making. First, to end something, it has to exist first. Secondly, the proposed law does not abolish anything, but we do. The analysis of the requests made for public calls by the ministry and decisions made by the cultural councils as well as the completion of the grant contracts for the state budget over the past two years has established: a number of applications have never been considered on the board of directors even though it has been neatly arranged in the ministry. There are written clues about the decisions of the Minister of Culture which are different from the Council's decisions, but at the same time there are no written arguments that the Minister of Culture was obliged to refer to the Council in accordance with the law. For example, for a 900 film program, the contract is 700, no explanation. For the second film the Council proposes 200, the contract is at 280, an additional amount plus 100, no explanation. There are many more examples like that. In a certain number of programmes, support has never been granted by the Council, which is contrary to Article 14 of the Law. For example, a fee for support to one theatre project for two years in a row, without the cultural council having approved it. A number of council decisions programmes have been adopted and published on the Ministry's website, but users have never received a grant agreement or support funds. This is just a few examples of the ministry's work to implement the current law on cultural councils. However, as regards the level of public work achieved by the cultural councils, it is sufficient to say that the councils had not publicly published the criteria by which they had taken decisions and here it should be stressed that the councils had made decisions without the previous evaluation of the reports on the projects carried out, which led to the fact that a number of programmes remained partially achieved and even an unfulfilled example, which is why we have in publishing activity, but also in the film because no realisation has been followed. So although the current law prescribed the public work of the councils, which according to the letter of the law must be provided by the President of the Council, it can be concluded that the public of the work did not exist. The public work of the council has not been achieved on any of the possible three forms of meetings open to the public, press releases or periodic reports. The publication of the information on the allocation of budgets on the Ministry's web pages has not reached the public of the work prescribed by law, especially since part of such published data is neither accurate nor complete. Allow a few more words about the work of cultural councils and the conflict of interest achieved. The existing law exempts only the member of the council who was directly involved in the project to be decided. Such a provision of the law shall not prevent a member of the Council from taking part in a decision on assistance directed at legal persons in which a member of the Council has a share or participates in its management. As an example of negative practice, it is certainly an example of a council for books and publishing on whose decisions and conflict of interest reached, the public expressed its disfavor on several occasions. The proposal for a new law prevents such conflict of interest in Article 10 of the proposed law. And finally a few observations. The claim that the introduction of cultural councils is one of the most important achievements of the Ministry of Culture in the previous term is surprising, given that the cultural development strategy proposed in the same mandate only mentions the cultural councils and their role in cultural development. Secondly, the findings that cultural councils at the Ministry of Culture have achieved decentralisation are completely incorrect, as the councils have been established only at the state level at which all public needs in culture have been decided in a centralistic way and those that are being made for the local level. The current system of cultural councils under the applicable law cannot even be seen as a non-democracy in the decision-making process because the Council's work logs show that a system of co-decision between the councils and the minister is not reached by law. The existing Law on Cultural Councils is bad and therefore inconsistently implemented in practice. He's like such an unacceptable man. Therefore, I ask you to discuss the proposed law and after the debate to respect the proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-31-0.u9052	I thank Minister Bishop. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? On behalf of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture, the distinguished representative Martincevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-31-0.u9053	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Minister, gentlemen of the Ministry, colleagues and colleagues. The Committee on Education, Science and Culture of the Croatian Parliament discussed the session held on 24 March 2004 with the Proposal for a Law on Cultural Councils, with the Final Proposal for Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 64, which has been submitted by the government of the Republic of Croatia by the Croatian Act since 17 March 2004 to the President of the Croatian Parliament. The Committee considered the issue as a parent working body. The opening argument was tabled by the proposing representatives, stating that the existing Law on Cultural Councils had shown shortcomings and indeterminateness, at local level the council had not even established itself because their establishment was a universityal, appointment mechanism and the resolution was too demanding and it did not work. The Council for Architecture and Urbanism does not enter the area of the Ministry of Culture. International cultural co-operation and European integration were not covered by a special council, so the activity proved insufficient, and the National Council for Culture met only once and did not adopt a national programme. The emergency procedure is proposed, among other things, to provide for funds in the city's budgets in time. A discussion was followed in which Jagoda representative Maja Martincevic proposed an amendment to the draft law providing for a council for new media cultures that would cover the area of various interdisciplinary areas specifically related to young people, which was unanimously and accepted. The discussion noted that no new law needed to be proposed so that the new proposal did not guarantee the public the work of the council and that the powers of the minister were too great, and that various forms of youth subculture no longer have their sponsor. During the debate, however, it was pointed out that the public action of the councils is provided for in the law and that the minister is taking part in the work of the government anyway, and that the council for new media cultures of young people will be fully covered. Furthermore, it was found that the councils so far were not effective and that they were working in the shaming system. After the debate was held, the following conclusion was reached by most votes: The Committee proposes to the Croatian Assembly the adoption of the Law on Cultural Councils by emergency procedure and in the form drawn up by the proposings along with the following amendment. In Article 2(2) of the fifth subparagraph, add a new subparagraph, which reads as follows: "New media cultures" sub-assembly 6. Here I am warning you not how you colleagues got a technical error written in a single "new media culture". Explanation of the amendment. This proposal also advocates that, in addition to the proposals proposed, the Council for New Media Cultures is set aside from the diversity of interdisciplinary areas involving media culture, especially those related to young people. This proposal by Jagoda Maja Martincevic was accepted unanimously. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-31-0.u9054	I thank the esteemed representative Martincevic. Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, Honorable Representative Pavlic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-31-0.u9055	Let me warn you that the injured Rules of Procedure of Article 45 with the desire not to repeat such things in the future. The President, Vice-President of the Working Body of the Assembly, in the event of an obstacle, shall have the right, obligations and responsibilities of the President. I am the vice-president of this committee whose name therefore the lady presented her report, and the president can therefore appoint a deputy unless I am present at the session itself. So I think the Rules of Procedure have been broken here and I hope that these things will not be repeated and not just on our committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-31-0.u9056	I didn't know you were present at the session, but I got...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-31-0.u9057	Yes, from the beginning, yes.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-31-0.u9058	...a notice from the president about his prevention and that the Committee's opinion will be delivered by a member of the Committee of Jagoda Majska-Martincevic. Thank you. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Club, distinguished representative Maria Byte.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-31-0.u9059	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, ladies and gentlemen. The proposal for a law on cultural councils with the Final Proposal for a Law The Croatian Democratic Community Club will support. The Law on Cultural Councils, adopted in 2001, showed a number of shortcomings. He established a system of cultural councils which, according to cultural areas, took part in the decision on the allocation of State budgets aimed at meeting public needs in culture, which were to participate in the decision-making process under the Law, and proposed to the Minister of Culture measures related to the strategic issues of cultural development and cultural policy, and to participate in the adoption and implementation of the public needs programme in the culture of the Republic of Croatia. The existing Law was consistently implemented and according to the Croatian Democratic Community Club, the cultural council in most parts failed because it was not a step forward, but it was a strange combination of former self-government SIZs and attempts to create a new approach without responsibility and a firm stand for decision-making. Good solutions in our environment should have been looked at because the current Cultural Council Act is incomparable to any similar law in Europe, so this model of cultural councils is unknown. The work of cultural councils was accompanied by the affairs and resignations of members, and new professionals were not appointed, and some cultural councils worked in incomplete composition for months. For example. in the Council of Fine Arts, one member requested a resolution in June 2002, and was resolved on 21 November 2003. Or the President of the Council of Fine Arts resigned on 14 November 2002 and from then to 21 November 2003. The council worked without a president and one member. Or the Music Council is incompletely composed of 5 members because 2 resigned for a full period of 2 years from 17 December 2001 to 21 November 2003, etc. The minister transferred responsibility to the cultural council and the council to the minister. There was no telling who was responsible. In one part of the council, they worked without criteria, but also without feedback on implemented programmes and investments. According to the law, the ministry was supposed to be logistics to the councils. The analysis of the requests made for public calls by the Ministry and the decisions taken by the cultural council on the division of funds from the state budget shows that some of the requirements were never considered on the competent council even though they were accepted by the ministry, that some decisions by the Council of Ministers did not respect, that a number of council decisions were accepted and published, but users never received funding. In addition to those difficulties with some members of the Council, for example, the Book and Publishing Council, it is difficult to say whether all members were able to avoid conflict of interest when setting out the proposal for the allocation of funds from the state budget. The existing Law exempt only that member of the Council who was directly involved in the project to be decided. It was possible for a member of the Council to participate in the decision on assistance directed at legal persons, in which a member of the Council has a share in or participates in its management. The new bill prevents such a conflict of interest, and the proposal of the Croatian Democratic Community Club is that such a person cannot even be a member of the council. Over the past two years, the cultural councils have been largely occupied by the establishment of a proposal for the allocation of funds from the state budget according to individual programmes, and the minutes on their work have shown that they have not discussed or made strategic decisions related to the development of certain areas in culture. The National Council for Culture, which was required under the existing Law, to establish a proposal for a national cultural programme, except for a constitutive session only met once and did not propose a national culture programme within two years, did not discuss strategic issues and objectives of cultural policy and did not coordinate the work of all councils, which was his task under the Law. Therefore, at the Club of the Croatian Democratic Community, we believe that the cultural councils formed under the existing law failed. We are not against advisory councils, we support the inclusion of not only the necessary but also the necessary professional people from the activities of culture, but in the Club of the Croatian Democratic Community we believe that full responsibility for cultural policy and its implementation of the sea is borne by the Minister and the Ministry. The proposal for a new development on cultural councils improves the system of councils established by the Ministry of Culture, in Article 1 of the Cultural Councils shall co-determinate in the definition of cultural policy and propose the objectives and measures for its implementation. They propose programmes for public needs in culture for which funds are provided in the state budget. They provide professional assistance to the Minister in the adoption of the programme and provide professional bases, opinions and proposals. It is necessary to establish in Article 2 a clear section of each cultural council at the Ministry of Culture. In addition to the proposed cultural councils, we support the amendment of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture, starting with the Council on New Media Cultures, starting with a variety of areas involving media culture. We also support the end of the action of the Council for Architecture and Urbanism because its responsibilities are in the responsibilities of the Ministry of Spatial Planning and Construction. The composition of the Council, the selection of members and the mandate of council members shall be covered by Articles 3, 4 and 5. The Minister of Culture initiates the process of electing cultural council members at the Ministry of Culture by calling public institutions and associations in the field of art and culture, and appoints members of the Council from the accession proposals by the Minister of Culture. As soon as the process of appointment by the Government of the Republic of Croatia has been abandoned, which has not proved to be the best solution in the past two years because of the resignation and inability to resolve. In the opinion of the Croatian Democratic Community Club, Article 4 should add a new item that reads: "A member of the Council cannot be a person who has a share in the ownership or participation in the management of a legal person who carries out activities in culture in the field of the cultural council". The existing paragraph 2 would become paragraph 3 and the explanation reads: "This proposal advocates that the possibility of conflicts of interest be completely prevented, that council members may not be persons who have a share in ownership or manage a legal person who deals with a culture for whom the council is appointed." We have also proposed amendments to Article 10(2), if this amendment is accepted. The National Council for Culture under the Proposal for a new law in Article 7 shall be the advisory body of the Minister providing expert assistance in determining the strategy of cultural development. The Croatian Democratic Community Club supports the provision of the proposed Article 6 which, for the purpose of decentralisation in culture, requires the establishment of a cultural council for the county, the City of Zagreb, and cities that have more than 40,000 inhabitants. The act of establishment, number and mandate of council members shall be adopted by the representative body of the unit of local and regional self-government while other municipalities and cities may establish a cultural council if this is assessed as relevant for each area. Articles 1 to 12 and 13 have made it clear that the work of the Councils, with a special commitment by each council, is in place to consider measures to promote and promote professional, cultural and artistic creation and cultural amateurism and alternative creation with special attention to promoting the cultural creation of national minorities. The Croatian Democratic Community club also supports a new council for international cultural co-operation and European integration. The task of all councils is to pay particular attention in their work to promoting Croatian cultural and artistic creation, and to the stronger impact of the profession and employees in culture to direct cultural processes in the Republic of Croatia, and to determine the most appropriate angles towards the preservation of cultural heritage as a fundamental determination of national identity. The Croatian Democratic Community Club will therefore support the adoption of a proposal for a Law on Cultural Councils, with the final proposal for a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-31-0.u9060	I thank the esteemed representative of Mary Byte. On behalf of the SDP Club, Honorable Representative Antun Vujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-31-0.u9061	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Some two years ago, she was supported here at the Upper City Museum by a historical one interesting exhibition, called "20th Century", "Croatia in the 20th Century". In the 20th century, five countries passed Croatia. Five states. Since the exhibits were related to culture, they could be seen precisely, how many of these five countries and within each country, who knows what other number of periods determine what culture will be at some point. So then once there's going to be these colors, the next time there's going to be those colors, the third time they're going to be among the colors, etc. Croatian culture has seen many things and has done many things, the only thing it has not seen, and that is the autonomy of decision-making in culture. It did not develop in the way it developed in the Netherlands, first through a rich civil society, completely independent of any government, and then also in the wealth of all possible forms. This ours has always developed with a larger or smaller presence of the state, and that state has always, in all its periods except perhaps in this last one, sought to obtain from culture some kind of quite specific product, some sort of quite a certain value, very often and specifically, and simply apology. That was why we went into two major reforms. One is the reform of the material position of culture, the other is the reform of the way of decision-making in culture. The reform of the material position of culture consisted in precisely, we have heard here something that should be done, and this has already been done, in liberating investment in a culture from income tax and income tax along with a whole series of other reliefs, etc., and the decision-making reform should ensure that no current or future committees, any present or future party, any group or group can significantly influence what is to be decided in culture. The Ministry of Culture, at the address of the Ministry of Culture, comes annually somewhere over 10,000 different cultural projects through a public call to finance public needs in culture, and someone needs to decide on tens of thousands of individual projects. Who's gonna do it? He was looking for a way to do it? Since many projects are related to personal preferences, since this is often about artistic products, where I think evaluations are very difficult to be quantified. There are no rules on how to obtain goods and services, so it must be done in some institutionally guaranteed way that it may not be able to avoid any mistake, but that it will stand behind that mistake, who? – waist and primarily waist. That was the reason to go into this one reform, because so far there has been no such thing as, in particular, no more or less, better, than the less direction of new laws should go to be higher, autonomous than the administration and the current political government's constitution is whether it's like this or like that, it's left or right, or I don't know what other. And that's what happened. Of course, when it happened, and when some hundred people first found themselves in the decision-making space, not only in the decision-making area, but also in the decision-making area, that kind of harmony that some here unquestionably want and think is good for culture. No, I don't. There's no agreement in the culture. By definition there are no consensus, there are different options, there are different options, aesthetics there are different, preferences, and here there should be common content between different orientations, and even different political orientations, since some Council members have just been said by two main political groups, one common sufficient content has to be achieved to make a positive decision on this. Yes, there are, and naive, and there is a conceptual. That there are films and experimental and that there are documentary, that there are also played, that there are these or those books etc. It didn't seem perfect, because it can't even be done perfectly. But it seemed public, and it seemed in responsibility to know who, what, to say so within it fit. Nowhere has the last and determined role of the minister been questioned. He's the one who leaves the scene because of such or such politics, so if he's good, maybe he'll be celebrated, and if he's not good, then he'll be cooked. Therefore, his is the last one, he is responsible for the state budget, but he must make his decisions clear and transparent. There's been some criticism here, and I'm not going to look back at them unless they need to be individually. But what's the point of things? In some things a consensus was reached, either verbally orally, orally. One of the fundamentals of such a principle characteristic and such an event characterized, when the minister had just produced the Council's disdain for the film, and he took responsibility to finance 800 thousand kuna for three more films, since the four films we financed through the council cost 16 million kuna. Yes, and fortunately one of those films won all the awards in Pula, so the minister didn't have to resign. Otherwise, you might as well give it to me. That's the point. The point of co-decision is the autonomy of the two sides that co-determine, not just one. The point of co-decision is still the responsibility of the minister, but one that will be transparent and clear. That's the point of co-decision. Let me just say a few remarks, which is why there is no such thing as why this law, in short, is called the Law on the Elimination of Cultural Councils, not the promotion of cultural councils. All of what was negative in the work of the cultural councils was to be improved. Cultural councils last two and a half years. But not in a way that destroys the basic substance, which is relative to the independence of the cultural councils. We now have a case for the minister to appoint and resolve members of the council. And it's said to be very impractical when the government does. All right. And please explain this to me. How will an opinion be heard that may even be desirable to be different from a minister, if the minister and appoints and resolves members of the Council? It takes two sides to co-determinate, I'm sorry, this other side is simply derived from this first side. He solves them, he appoints them. The government is one procedure. That it is a procedure within the same group of political parties that the minister is sitting on. But here comes the proposal defined, with reasons, and there is someone third in the final line who can intervene in this process. This is where the third one is abolished. Co-decision without a call spot to the third to so say the element does not exist, it is not co-decision, it is a simple commission and in that sense nothing else. Why are you losing the Institute of Answers? Perhaps in all tensions and differing opinions, and it was not always a precise response, it may, in its own chance, refer to some smaller objects or where perhaps later a consensus was reached. But the answer principle is important. It is important to be public so that you can see what is being done, what was the subject of the dispute and what has been decided. Transparency, so it's the key to the methodology of how to make any decisions in thousands of different interests that swim in culture and where. No single, no single decision is such that someone with it would not be satisfied and everyone who is satisfied is very easy to come to the public and very easily express their opinions. It is impossible in culture to function in a way that this responsibility is not shared in the decision-making phase and that it is not taken at the same time in the decision-making phase if it is different. The National Council of Culture, which now has a fully-produced one status, is being convened by both the minister and the chairman of the minister, before it elected its president. Yeah, that's right. The National Council for Culture has not yet established its national programme team because, among other things, the strategy has served as such for a time. But that was 2.5 years ago. It's said that the councils couldn't work, the councils worked with the quorum all the time and it's said to have an urgent decision now because there's no council. The councils exist. They are gentlemen proposed and nominally passed the government, and nominally all the councils are full. That is why they now have the possibility of a quorum and so to say the internal structure to decide on everything that needs to be decided and to define a national programme in culture. How will this council establish a national programme in culture and will be called the National Council Programme if it is produced only by a decision of the Minister and at the same time by the Minister himself? It's a return to something we just wanted to leave. I repeat, I do not think that after 2.5 years of council work that some adjustments should not have been. However, not corrections in terms of going back to the old, losing and autonomy but in terms of promoting that autonomy. There's nothing to say about the launch of foundations and foundations, it came out as something that was an integral part of the council's decision and it was huge. So when we talk about what she should be in perspective then the same thing needs to be burned to the next question. Since the para-state body, the para-state body will be at the same time the bearer of those species and the trusts we think that, with the relief of the cuts we've received, we must also get mixed capital inside and various other types of funding and what's up in Europe. The Council for Architecture and Urbanism is being abolished, and as we have seen now that the Council for Media Culture will return, I certainly support this return. But why not for architecture and urbanism? That's why it's said to belong to another resolution ministry, it's a noncense. That's exactly not supposed to be in the one or the one ministry he's building, it's got to be outside of him. Because the purpose of the Council, the Cultural Council for Culture, is for, for urbanism and architecture precisely to agree with or disagree with cultural reasons and to act within that idiom and to act publicly within it, not to say that they have also said their opinions and associations of architects as we see who is reading today the press can see what it is about. The establishment of a Council for Cities with more than 40,000 inhabitants is prescribed. It's said in one place that it's not so far, it hasn't been established. And so far, the law has allowed them to be established and some have established themselves. Such Councils were established in Rijeka, such Councils were established in Koprivnica in a manner appropriate to those environments. It can't be imagined that the Council of a City of something more than 40,000 inhabitants, I won't mention any city not to be offended, might have a Council for Cultural Goodies, or that it might have a Council for Villa and Cinematography and I don't know what else. That's what I mean by noncens. I know that there may be something to be done in this regard, but we will finally come to the question why we are doing this by an emergency procedure and we have measured the consequences of these decisions. Finally, it's about the so-called. decentralisation. In this paper here there is absolutely nothing of decentralisation, because decentralisation as a problem in culture sounds and reads differently. It consists of that no monopoly determines cultural decisions and it is not possible to imagine in the overall production of film, publishing, art, etc., that some other Councils could measurely decide on those things where, as we have seen, it is quite difficult to collect and 7 members of the council at national level. It has nothing to do with decentralisation but it has to do with centralised in the sense that all decision-making forces are centralized. Finally, the number of council members from 7 to 5 members is changed. It's a way of saying that these councils that exist, which, by law, exist right now, have just come out of the crisis that some of them have resigned because they've been filled in, that means actually only that we're going to end these councils now, because when we bring them to be 5 and not 7, they're now being appointed, and they're counting on pluralism and even political orientations within the council members, so they're not going to be members of the council anymore. I don't think the difference between 5 and 7 is important. Maybe it's even better to be five than to be seven. Maybe it's better if there's nine of them. But please, in politics when there's something that wants to be abolished, then his frame changes, so it has to be lifted. And that's why it's another argument that pretty well reveals the intentions of this whole thing. I, as I see it, must finish, if I'm not mistaken, so let me just sum up. First Law on Cultural Councils, Mr. Vice President, that's the last sentence, here in this House was adopted in a regular procedure unanimously. Unanimously, gentlemen, gentlemen of power and gentlemen in position. This law, where we have already had a bunch of objections, technical ones, and also by the HDZ Club, takes place in an urgent procedure and with the consequences that we have been talking about. I think that's not only the conclusion of this debate, but the point of what we need to discuss. The SDP Club will not support this Act, it can support the adoption of laws in a regular procedure along with amendments that will leave space to be given. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-31-0.u9062	I thank the esteemed representative Vujic. We have several corrections of incorrect allegations. Dear Representative Martincevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-31-0.u9063	Mr. Vice-President, gentlemen of my colleagues, I am correcting the incorrect quote of the distinguished representative Vujic, who is as terminology as well as of a qualified nature. He was talking about past, present and future committees. About the past, perhaps, from their own ranks but today I guarantee them there will be none, nor will they be because they are inappropriate to the civilization's observation of this problem. So it's an incorrect quote about the current committees.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-31-0.u9064	Thank you. To correct the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative of the Czech Republic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-31-0.u9065	There are more allegations that should be corrected about what Mr Vujic said. First of all, I don't think that with this in any way disrupts the autonomy of the National Council for Culture because autonomy is neither arbitrary nor arbitrary or unwilled. And in the very fact that this National Council of Culture once met, we are clearly told that they were working both on their own and on their own free will, even if they didn't meet. And today we all agree that we do not have the cultural identity of Croatia. So we have to Exactly that, the correction must be made and it is not true that it will now violate the autonomy that the minister will chair but will now finally be responsible for having the National Council for Culture work once. [[Intruder: I ask you to correct an incorrect quote]] So far, the minister has not been responsible for this. Therefore, we must oblige the minister to chair, to convene and to be responsible whether we finally have a national, cultural identity or not?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-31-0.u9066	Thank you. Dear Representative Maria Byte, correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-31-0.u9067	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I am correcting it on the basis of Article 209. The Rules of Procedure incorrectly cite fellow Vujic who says there is nothing in the law on decentralisation and that cities and municipalities will have to set up cultural councils such as the film council, leading to absurdity. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The law states: “The Cultural Council is founded on the territory of the county, the city of Zagreb and the city that has more than 40,000 inhabitants, and can be founded by other municipalities and cities if it is assessed by purpose.” And also regarding committees, colleagues have already said incorrectly because now Mr. Minister and Ministry are taking responsibility, not for making decisions, so they are incorrectly quoted by colleagues Vujic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-31-0.u9068	I thank the esteemed representative byte. On behalf of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, Minister Bozo Bishop. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-31-0.u9069	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear MPs allow only one brief comment on the text spoken by a colleague Vujic. When it comes to decision-making, co-decision, I want to tell autonomy how to decide with cultural councils is exclusively at Ministry level being centralistic. Conduct under the cover of democratisation of decision-making, and now it is claimed to be a reform. As regards the reform of funding, the Law on the financing of public needs in culture has been applied as unchanged throughout the mandate of the last government, so there has been no reform either. And when it comes to autonomy, allow me just a quote from a member of the Film Council that says: “Decision decisions taken without consultation with this advisory body, without artistic evaluation and without publication of a public tender but for the second or third time fully marginalise the work of this Council.” It's not a conflict. In the present system, we have witnessed these reports that we have reported, which we have actually heard here, witness the conflict. In the film, the conflict as I mentioned was not settled legally. Then it was necessary to write to the Council, explain as the law obliges. When it comes to national councils, it would be good and it would probably be a lot more sessions if the National Council had been chaired by the Minister of Culture because then it would not have waited to be called or not by his president and I believe that it would have been and probably a lot more resolved than that, at least what was in the task. When it comes to the Council of Architecture and Urbanism, we have made a public statement in the media that the Ministry of Architecture, the care of architecture programmes, but we have said unlike the Ministry of Environmental Protection, Spatial Planning and Construction cannot affect processes in the field of urban and architecture except when it comes to protected construction heritage and protected historical units. So they have always been and are now, and will be members of the Council for the Protection of Cultural, Natural Heritage and Cultural Heritage will also be members of architects who are so far and who will be in the future. When it comes to decentralisation, I am here and mentioned that this is not a final solution, that without that financial part we will not actually achieve our intention to decentralise decision-making entirely and precisely with the proposal of this Law, it is actually starting the process of real decentralisation because the establishment of cultural councils at the level of counties and major cities that need to become cultural policymakers at these levels. It is therefore not the goal of increasing resources for culture at national level, as did the previous Government, but we must create real conditions for decentralisation and decision-making on the ground. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-31-0.u9070	I thank the Minister of God, Bishop. We have one correction to the incorrect allegations of the esteemed representative Antun Vujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-31-0.u9071	I'm not going to comment on Mr. Secretary, so I'm just going to look back on one of his allegations that something about the film council wasn't legal. Because of the expression that was used, I'm certainly disproved. It is legal that everything concerning this matter of the Council is done within the powers vested on the one hand by the Minister and within the framework of the arguments which otherwise exist in writing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-31-0.u9072	Thank you. Dear MPs and deputies continue the session at 3 pm, and the Association of Representatives of the HSS is up. Honorable representative of Harami at 3:00. Honorable MPs and MPs, please go to the bench. It is next to the club of representatives of the HSS, the distinguished representative of Zdenko Harami. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-31-0.u9074	Honored Mr. Vice President, Mr. Minister and gentlemen of the Ministry, dear colleagues and fellow MPs. The HSS Club discussed the proposal for a law on cultural councils at its meeting. The previous law on cultural councils was adopted in 2001 by example of similar regulations in the Scandinavian countries and the UK. It predicted that the funds allocated to cultural needs were allocated on the basis of Council decisions composed of 7 members of the same profession. Proposed by cultural associations and prominent cultural workers appointed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. These councils were also 7 as their members and covered the fields of music, stage art, art, publishing activities, architecture, film and media culture. They were joined by four other councils founded on the subject of other laws for museums, libraries, archives and cultural goods. And the presidents of these councils consisted of a national council to deal with the establishment of a national cultural development strategy. The possibility of the establishment of such councils at the level of the county, the city of Zagreb and other cities was widely envisaged. The Council's decisions had a mandatory power for the Minister of Kutlure by making it possible for the minister to invest what was very rarely used in practice. The proposal for a new law fundamentally changes the position and purpose of the existence of cultural councils, reduces their number and reduces the number of their members and no longer no longer appoints them as the Government of the Republic of Croatia, according to the proposal of the Minister of Culture, but appoints them himself as the Minister of Culture. The establishment of cultural councils for the levels of the county, the city of Zagreb and cities with more than 40,000 inhabitants is foreseen. And the councils that are left in relation to the previous law are councils for music and music and stage art. For dramatic arts, for film and cinema for books and publishing, for art, and as a new council for international culture of cooperation and European integration. Further remains the National Council for Culture as an advisory body, which consists of all the presidents of the councils proposed in the new law and as earlier councils established under specific laws. Thus, according to the previous law, the councils for architecture and media culture were left out. The HSS Club believes that the bill is not good for several reasons and that it is more important than the previous law. P First of all, we believe that the newly established way of appointing and resolving cultural council members per minister of culture is to narrow down and, in practice, probably to abolish the autonomy of decision-making in culture, since the proposed amendment to the previous law is not to ensure the independence of members of the council. Secondly, the decisions that the council will make for the Minister of Culture do not have any binding power. Since the minister is not obliged to bring his decision in line with council decisions, he is not obliged to respond publicly to them or to what he is derrogating, a very important institute for public and transparent cultural decision. Thirdly, by abolishing the Councils for Architecture and Defence and Councils for Media Culture, these areas of significant cultural activities have been completely abandoned and marginalised in some ways. It is hard to believe that the remaining councils, which are composed of expertise in a particular area, will cover both the work and the work so far and the councils that have now been abolished. As the fourth introduction of the obligation of establishment of both councils and at the level of cities with more than 40,000 inhabitants, and not taking into account the real possibilities of individual cities to form quality councils in line with the development of certain activities for us is very questionable. In the previous system, the ecclesiastical possibility of the establishment of the council did not benefit any of the cities. So the question of regulation is, by law, the obligation to establish such a law. As a problem, there is also a question of the financing of such councils, at this level and the example is questionable as to what is going to happen to every city with more than 40,000 inhabitants, for example. The film council. We believe that legal regulations cannot improve cultural development in some territory. As fifth, the reduction in the number of members is assessed exclusively as a way to replace seven members of the new minister to the law on appointed councils. This directly affects the continuity of these councils and what is important for cultural projects. As sixth, we believe that this law should still be passed in a regular procedure, not an emergency procedure. Because such haste gives certain anxiety that is absolutely unnecessary in the area of culture. Along the way, we point out that the proposed new law in cultural councils was arousing, the cultural councils were excited not only by cultural circles but also by the general public, which also confirms our opinion that the law should have gone into regular procedure and that if the existing law had to be amended it should have respected the views and opinions made in cultural activities and cultural associations. Given the words, the HSS club will not support the proposed law and will vote against it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-31-0.u9075	I thank the honourable representative of Harami. Correction of the incorrect allegation of the esteemed representative Martincevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-31-0.u9076	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, for correcting the inaccuracies of fellow MPs who say that in the cities of 40,000 inhabitants, a council for film will be established and that these councils will be held by such cities. That wasn't said anywhere in the law. It is said that councils will be set up as required by these environments. No film council has been mentioned in any city of 40,000 inhabitants.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-31-0.u9077	Thank you. It is next to the Club of Representatives Libra esteemed representative Željko Pavlic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-31-0.u9078	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary. So let me briefly give you on behalf of the Libra Club our position on the newly proposed law on cultural councils. The Libra Club will not support the proposed Law on Cultural Councils because we believe that we are taking a step backwards with the new law. On the way to the achievement of the autonomy of the decision-making of the cultural workers themselves, we are afraid that its acceptance would mean that the policy in cultural activity is returning to the big door. I can also remind myself that for a little over two years we have supported the existing law on cultural councils, stressing its intentions to work precisely on decentralisation, decentralisation, autonomy and transparency. If there are difficulties, then, in implementing the existing law, it is our opinion that this is not solved by a new law but by improving the situation within the system itself. That would be a more efficient and rational solution. This is how we open the way to further... and over-indulgence in the entire system, because unfortunately this is not an isolated case. [[You don't understand.]] So far, there have been several such laws in the House where the matter has tried to improve by passing new laws. So for us, it's an irrational solution, and we'll be against it. As far as I'm concerned, let me just mention the decentralisation process that has been going very well for the past three or four years. I can pass on the experiences we have in Međimurje County where many projects in municipalities received support from the ministry, so the funds and municipalities and cities and counties were pooled, and after a long time some cultural monuments or cultural homes needed to enable them to be restored. I hope it continues. As far as our concrete remarks are concerned, they are similar remarks that have been made so far in the debate, but I will briefly list them. Our examples therefore go to almost all articles of this law. In Article 2, where we oppose the abolition of the Council on Architecture and Urbanism and the same council on media culture. And for what? We think that these significant areas of cultural activity and cultural policy remain uncovered by measurement proposals and decisions. The Club LIBRE therefore supports all those who claim that the necessary articulations of space must not be left only to the will of the builders and that the independent culture must have its foothold in the ministry and therefore we also support the amendments of the Education Committee that it has proposed to remain or to change the council for media culture as it is now called. We also support those amendments that go towards putting the Council on architecture and urbanism into law. As far as Article 3 is concerned, we are opposed to reducing the number of council members from 7 to 5 because, in our opinion, more council members can also ensure diversity and plurality and stronger creativity, which is actually the basis of this activity. We are afraid that, in fact, behind Article 3, the intention of changing so far the members of the council to form a new council. And precisely our biggest remark goes to Article 4 which speaks of the appointment of members, these five members of the council whose powers are conferred exclusively on the Minister of Culture himself. After us, it's a step back. So far, the government has done so and the government has in some way controlled both the ministry and the minister himself. The government is heterogeneous in one way or another by avoiding the unification of members, the composition of council members, and if this is the case, we are afraid that the result would be that a narrow circle of people from the same mile could create a cultural policy, and that is, in fact, consistent with the essence of cultural activities. We also oppose the establishment of a cultural council for the area of the county, the City of Zagreb and a city that has more than 40,000 inhabitants as an obligation. So far, it's been a college thing, and it's a lot of funding. So, according to us, we should stay at the college level, that those cities that really have conditions, have a tradition, so they have an obligation to care for their cultural heritage that way. The obligations required by this law for these counties, cities and municipalities are high. Article 8 therefore states that the headship of the county, the City of Zagreb, or the municipalities, ensures that professional administrative, technical and other tasks are carried out for the purposes of the council referred to in Article 6 of this Act. Article 9 states that council members receive compensation for their work. So these are extra costs that aren't small. We also oppose Article 7 which further concentrates on the powers and powers of the Minister of Culture, because this article is chaired by the National Councils, and as we know before, only the Council has elected a president on a proposal from the Minister, which we think is a far better solution than this. Here is the point, therefore, of our general view that we will not support this law and it is indeed a step backwards for us in relation to that existing primarily to the preservation of the autonomy of decision-making in culture and art. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-31-0.u9079	I thank the honourable representative. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-31-0.u9080	Mr. Vice President, I'm correcting the incorrect assumption that... The law actually started the process of decentralisation in decision-making in culture. [[You don't understand.]] I'm going to explain it a little bit later in my presentation a little bit better. In fact, this law enables the centralisation and achievement of the narrow interests of certain members of these same councils, which I will talk about later.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-31-0.u9081	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS club, the PGS, Alenka Košisha Chichin-Shain.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-31-0.u9082	Dear Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Mr. Minister, the esteemed MPs and MPs. On the occasion of the adoption of the new Law on Cultural Councils, which the Croatian Parliament, on a proposal from the Government of the Republic of Croatia, should adopt by an urgent procedure at this session, should take into account its illogicalities and significant shortcomings. In full view of the law, we cannot take the impression that it is a violation of the system of freedom of decision, transparency of procedure, or the presence of the public in making decisions is abolished, especially at lower levels, and the concentration of all decisions in the sphere of culture within the ministry itself, i.e. in the direction of Mr. Minister. According to the final proposal, the number of councils in the Ministry of Culture would be reduced from seven to six suspensions of the Council for Architecture and Urbanism and the Council for Media Culture. It is that later the proposal of the Committee on Education and Culture kept this council for media culture in one slightly different form on the one hand, but the establishment of new councils on dramatic art and international cultural cooperation and European integration on the other. Two separate councils, one for stage art and the one for music are connected in one, but an additional council for dramatic art was established which is all together mainly just a change of term. This is by no means directed by the part-round of these councils to the important issues raised as one of the basic issues which is wanted to be regulated by the new law. At the same time, it is proposed to abolish the Councils for Architecture and Urbanism and the Council for Media Culture, leaving these significant areas of cultural activity and cultural policy uncovered by measurement proposals and decisions. Let me, as an architect, and on behalf of my colleagues, show dissatisfaction with this change, because it fully marginalises the cultural and artistic aspect of architecture, urbanism and related activities, while at the same time, whenever it is necessary, we stress exactly the space for the development of Croatia as the most important resource. The Council established by the Ministry of Architecture and Urbanism shall have in its composition prominent social workers, critics, architects and urbanists and shall take care of the activities for which the two in the Ministry of Environment and Construction have no hearing, which is publishing, organisation of thematic domestic and foreign exhibitions, theoretical discussions and opinions on individual projects of greater importance, etc. How much this council has contributed to promoting the cultural identity of Croatian contemporary creation speak exhibitions such as the Salon of Architecture, the Youth Salon, the Milan Triennial, the Venice Biennials and the like. The Council, based on the Law on Spatial Planning at the Ministry of Environmental Protection, does not cover the artistic and cultural aspects of architectural action in its work. It amazes this decision, even more, bearing in mind that at the same time this ministry is awarding prestigious annual awards and prizes for life's work "Vladimir Nazor", precisely to architects and urbanists. I hope that this House has not only declared itself to be the largest national good, but also that the executive bodies will also be engaged, not to mention budget items, to show just how important architecture is to recognise our country's cultural identity in the European context. Dear Minister, I ask you, on behalf of the profession, that, before your final decision on the same, you consult the Association of Croatian Architects who, on Saturday, met on this subject only from the media, the Chamber of Architects, the Association of Architects and related institutions, and individuals who, behold, there would not be any thoughtlessness nearby. I believe that the situation with the Media Culture Council is the same, but not knowing enough this sphere of action, I would not like to elaborate but simply warn you to reconsider your decisions to abolish these councils. The proposal for a new law makes the council immaterial because their decisions do not have any binding force towards the final decisions made by the minister. And which is further unimaginable, in the Bill that declares decentralisation in culture, the minister is not even obliged to respond publicly to these council decisions. Every form of transparency and public presence in decision-making in all areas of cultural activity and cultural policy is completely suppressed. The newly established Council for International Cultural Co-operation and European Integration, the rest of the councils are obliged to submit proposals on the promotion of Croatian cultural and artistic creation abroad and to meet the Croatian public with recognised values and contemporary efforts of other peoples' culture and art. It is, in fact, the establishment of a special body that would be competent for what the existing law is responsible for the council itself within its own part. This results in overlapping, unnecessary accumulation of administration, which does not ensure the achievement of the essential objective, the receipt of international cultural cooperation. The point of the proposed amendment is also asked to reduce the number of members from 7 to 5. This would directly put an end to the current legally formed councils and exclude continuity in their work. Furthermore, there is no mention of the way in which the President of the Council is elected, although he is given certain powers in the proposal. The amendment to the appointment and resolution of members of the council is proposed, the proposed amendment leaves fully in the power of the Minister for the appointment and resolution of members of the Council. This makes it completely impossible for the council to be independent and it actually grows into the advisory bodies of the ministry itself. Furthermore, council decisions do not have any binding power towards the ministers' decisions. The minister is not obliged to bring his decisions in line with council decisions, so it is completely unimaginable, nor publicly respond to them. The provisions on the exemption of members of the Council from decision-making shall also be illogical. A directly interested person should also be excluded from the debate and the decision on issues of direct interest. The criterion of direct, personal interest as a reason for the exemption is too narrow. In addition to persons who are directly interested in making decisions on a matter, because it personally participates or participates in a legal person in whom it has a share of ownership, members of the council should be excluded, although the subject of a decision should be made by an artistic or cultural project involving her or his or her family member, a relative or other person with whom he or she may have a significant impact on the definition of a council member in giving his/her opinion or vote. The proposal is prescribed as the mandatory establishment of councils for the county, the City of Zagreb and cities with more than 40,000 inhabitants, but no sanctions are listed in the case of non-basement. By prescribing the existence of these councils, there is no decentralisation of culture as suggested in the reasoning. In particular, certain cities do not take into account the real possibilities to form such councils in view of the development of certain activities or their roles and powers are in line with existing regulations and actions and decisions of the local self-government body. The councils established at the level of the county, the City of Zagreb and the relevant cities have almost no influence on the establishment of a cultural development strategy. However, it does not, in any event, constitute a step towards decentralisation in the area of culture as a consequence of this proposal. Finally, it has only a declarative character, and it does not mean anything, i.e. the principles of multiculturality that the councils in their work confirm. Since the existing Law on Cultural Councils was adopted unanimously and in the ordinary procedure, the need for a new law with the consequences of removing decentralised cultural decision-making is unfounded, as this creates an impression of impact on cultural independence. Taking into account the above-mentioned shortcomings and the illogical nature of the proposed proposal and the importance of transparency and public participation in decision-making processes, especially in culture, I propose on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the CNS and the PGS that this proposal be put into regular procedure and give a good second thought to what brings this centralisation of power in the field of culture. The criticism of the ineffectiveness of the existing system is an insufficient reason for centralisation of power already precisely the reason for more efficient implementation of the already existing system of cultural councils, which is transparent, autonomous and close to the public. And that's best for us is the round table that was held in Zagreb the other day where there were 200 artists and various cultural workers, which best tells us how sensitive the general public is on this topic. The HNS and PGS club will not support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-31-0.u9083	I would like to thank the esteemed representative of Alenka Koshasha Chichin-Shain. For the correction of the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Martinčević.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-31-0.u9084	Mr. Vice President, I am correcting the incorrect quote of my colleague from the point of view of the narrow profession of musicology when she said that the terms of certain cultural councils were only formally, therefore, declared. This is not true because the Music Council received its very natural and only possible connection with music and stage arts because before the opera and ballet it was in the drama category, which was quite burdensome to the work of the existing councils.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-31-0.u9085	Thank you. On behalf of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, Minister Bishop.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-31-0.u9086	At least allow the honourable MPs to comment. I think you've used hard words to disrupt and destroy the lower-level decision-making system, vice versa. We are very much able at lower levels to make a commitment to create councils, and others that these councils can form, in fact, allow them to actually decide their needs at their levels. And secondly, when it comes to architecture, the Council for, I also mentioned it in the introduction, that the Council for Architecture and Urbanism, that we do not have the authority to actually find these great powers in the Ministry of Spatial Planning. You said there was no hearing. Perhaps there was no hearing in the past term, now it is headed by the ministry, Mrs Dropulic, who is also an architect of the profession. So I talked to her too, it's not true that there's no hearing, there's a lot of hearing about architecture, about urbanism and about your colleagues. Secondly, you said we didn't support the activities of architects, though. Unlike the decision two years ago when the Venice Biennale of Architecture and when no one remembered being sent to the Venice Biennale of Croatian architects, I don't know why, but there were no. This year we have provided a menu for the Venice Biennale, the menu is doing its job, we have provided funds for the Venice Biennale and Croatian architects will have a secure performance on the Venice Biennale this year. Secondly, we support extremely three magazines of architecture, about... architecture and man and space and all other publishing activities that architects have. And I don't think we should do it that way, so I think we should comment that the Ministry doesn't make sense, that we marginalize. We do not marginalise the role of architects, I even mentioned that architects are located in all relevant councils where they can decide accordingly, such as the Cultural Heritage Protection Council.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-31-0.u9087	I thank Minister Bishop. To correct the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Vujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-31-0.u9088	If I were to correct the incorrect assumption that the Ministry of Culture had no ear for the Venice Biennale. This Ministry of Culture just in its first year and sent an exhibition of Croatian architecture to the Venice Biennial of Architecture, so it was not... And yet there were very noticeable Penezic and Rogina. [[/the speaker doesn't understand.]] So there's a lot of hearing. And otherwise, through cultural projects, the Council is just deciding whether some projects are worth coming for or not. So then that year it was decided not to go, which doesn't mean next year it shouldn't go again. And especially does not mean that some dramatic conclusions can be drawn, for they are completely unrelated to one another.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-31-0.u9089	Thank you. The following came to light for the debate, the esteemed representative Nenadic Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-31-0.u9090	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. Dear Ministers Biskupić, colleagues and colleagues. We have before us the Law, which actually has two basic characteristics. And that is, it represents a step back to the concept of state culture, so specific to totalitarian systems. And secondly, that he is remandist. These are two basic features of the proposed law, and everything else that it says in that law is just a fig leaf. A fig leaf to conceal these two basic characteristics of these two pubic places of the proposed law. The number of councils, their dioculars, it can be like this, there are reasons and justifications for one and the other variants anyway. But I hold that doesn't matter. That's not the most important thing in this law, and that's why I'm not going to wear myself out in this debate. The concept of state culture. It's that concept where the state on one side of the Mercen, and on the other side of the arbitration. So then the state, the minister, decides on what will be financed and at the same time arbitration, whether it's a cultural programme, whether it's a similar content or not. There's no such thing as cultural freedom. Culture is again being conducted, thus becoming a servant. She's becoming a servant of the state. And that's what this proposed law wants to achieve. Let us ask ourselves, what is the meaning of the Council, when the councils were introduced? What is their basic purpose? The basic purpose of introducing a council is to introduce co-decision, which is most important. Not if it's 7 or 6 or 9 of them, but that by introducing the council, we've achieved that the minister no longer decides everything. The council also decided with the minister. This bill abolishes it, and that's what's important here, and that's what's totally unacceptable in this bill. As you suggest, Mr. Minister, it will not actually be a cultural council. It will be an extended composition of your ministry. It's your office right now. It's an extended composition of the minister's office. You will receive another 50 advisors, 49 or how much, if you keep 7 councils or 6 how many you will have 30 counselors, who will advise you, and you will respect their advice or do not respect it. At the same time, you will decide who will be your advisors. You will choose them according to your will, and they will help you in your work. But they won't decide. If you wanted to democratisation the system as you wrote in the bill. You would have made one step that has not yet been made. You might suggest, as the Government suggests, for example, the amendments to the HRT Act announced, that the Council should be named, so that the profession itself is appointed by members of the Council. That you or the government or the state have no influence at all. So let the law itself suggest to you or appoint members of the Council, who will make decisions with you. Then it would be a further step in democratisation of the system that we have introduced. So this is a retrograde process, which I'm quite sure won't come across the enthusiasm of cultural workers. Now the second question. Why the new law? You could have made these changes through changes to the law, addition, amendments to the law. Propose a new law, and what's the other essential feature of that law, it's a reduction of the number of council members from 7 to 5. It's again, but it doesn't matter whether in those councils 7, 5, 9 members, it doesn't matter. It's important to change their numbers with a new law. Why? So these can change. 49 people will be replaced when this law is adopted by an emergency procedure. Same time. This is also why the law is offered as a new law and why it is offered by emergency procedure. Because what other valid reason is there for the urgency of this procedure? Except it's important to change them all urgently. So I think it's a proposed law that has two characteristics, that it goes back to the concept of state culture, and that in its essence it's remandistic. Not that I should be doing it in two readings, you should pull it out. And, Mr. Minister, if this proposal came for example from Minister Hebrang, I wouldn't be surprised. But I'm surprised when it comes from you. And I urge you to withdraw this bill, and confirm the opinion of which cultural public you are otherwise ruled by, is that you are a man who is prone to culture, who cares about culture, who loves culture and who wants to improve. Rescind the proposed law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-31-0.u9091	So, Your Honor, Deputy Prime Minister Hebrang can't give this law... The Ministry of Health and Social Services. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Injury of the Rules of Procedure, the distinguished representative byte.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-31-0.u9092	Dear Mr. Vice President, a fellow MP has injured those members of the Rules of Procedure who speak about the insult of ministers and the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and in that part has injured the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-31-0.u9093	Thank you. Please. For the violation of the Rules of Procedure of Jure Bitunjac, a distinguished representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-31-0.u9094	Infringement of Rules 214 paragraphs 1 to 6. Mr. Stazic simply insults Deputy Prime Minister and Health Minister Andrija Hebrang. And I think given what he said you were supposed to give him a public notice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-31-0.u9095	Well, I don't see any reason to be honest about the warning, between the lines to read the insult but he didn't say a sentence insulting Vice President Hebrang. For the violation of the Rules of Procedure, the honourable representative Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-31-0.u9096	Mr. Vice President, but you're in violation of the Rules of Procedure when you say there's an insult between the lines. I've compared two ministers, I don't know who that's offensive to. To Minister Bishop or Minister Hebrang if I compared two ministers?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-31-0.u9097	I've made my point. That didn't hurt the Rules of Procedure. To correct the incorrect allegations, the distinguished representative Martinčević.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-31-0.u9098	I am correcting the inaccuracy of fellow MPs who said that the former minister, along with the existing cultural councils, had co-determined and that I would support this by just one example that of the seven members of the Film and Cinema Council, a resolution was requested by 5 members in July 2002 and for the reason of submitting resignations, not agreeing with the decision of the Minister of Culture on film financing. And there's still so many examples. The minister therefore did not deal with councils, especially those who worked with one-third.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-31-0.u9099	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the distinguished representative of Roksandić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-31-0.u9100	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. A fellow representative, Stazic, I think he listed a whole series of inaccuracies in his presentation, among other things, said that this new law is a step back, that it has a remand. I believe this is a step forward in improving the work of these councils. Also, what my colleague has corrected, I also have the knowledge that the so far cultural councils have not worked fully, although they have appointed nine members. And I also think that the former minister often made up his mind because he had this discretionary right.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-31-0.u9101	Thank you. In part, you corrected the thinking of a respected representative of Stazic. The next one for an individual debate is the esteemed representative Antun Vujic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-31-0.u9102	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. A little bit of it has been said, a lot of the arguments have been used and they're not based on actual data, but it's very hard for me to tell the individual list to answer each one. If we had the opportunity, which I still hope this law appears in two readings, then not only would Mr. Bishop read some documentation but I would bring my own, so we could see what we did and how we did and how we decided. The fact is, however, that something best can be broken while it's still growing. And the fact is that as he grows up, he can't respond at all times to all the tasks and all the ideas we've had. The first and basic act of these councils was to say that I was going out towards that type of further decentralisation and demonopolization regarding the establishment of fully independent social institutions. The film council, it's a substitute in a situation where we didn't have organized producers, we had a fully retarded practice of film financing, we didn't have distributors, we don't have film law, we don't have conditions for film law, the cinema halls are gone, national film studies are gone, etc., etc. The whole cultural scene was to be reconstructed in certain areas. And how do you do that? To work across the council, to form councils as future nukes for in the field of film, film alliance, not this or that as they are now called, but either an academy or an institute that would bear the whole of this production. Similarly do with a book, similar to do with a number of other areas. If there was an opportunity for us to talk and to work together in a way that is quite common, the usual way of solving these things that are imagined to go far. Then we could do it ourselves, and we'd like to change some institutions in this law. But change forward, change towards the autonomy of culture, change according to the more independent decision-making in culture rather than backwards where the argument is roughly like this. Since the councils were not perfect, since there were such and such decisions, mistakes, etc., then it is best to abolish them, make them commissions, and then there will be no such problems. Of course, there won't be any of these problems because they won't be obvious. The minister has no obligation, to put it this way, they have no conclusions that are obligatory to the minister, the minister has no obligation to refer in any way to it, according to what we're talking about?- I'm sorry. They are really advisers at the Ministry of Culture, which, however, do not work directly at the Ministry of Culture. I wish I could in some way expand the circle of advisors, that the Ministry of Finance wouldn't give it then. Great. Maybe that'll be a step forward, too. But, please, with the question of the autonomy of culture which has been the direction of overall development and which should have gone further in that sense, has nothing to do with it. This, to us, means nothing to us that we hope that Mrs Dropulić, who is the minister and who I personally highly appreciate in this other ministry, because it is an architect, will make adequate decisions and concerning the potential work of the Council for Architecture and Urbanism. It doesn't matter, people don't just share their professions, people share their interests, their positions in the decision-making process, the one they represent, they share them even here between us and the party, where many of the plasible things we've said would probably support everyone as an individual, so they don't support them because the clubs have decided this or that. Therefore, this is not about the independence of this or that minister, this is not about the independence of either this minister or that former minister. This is about whether we are building institutes that can guarantee the independence and autonomy of culture and, in that sense, freeing it from permanent tutorship from the state or not. We don't do it with this law. In that respect, we're going back. There have been several hearings in the debate that there are no criteria. Please, nice. Just when the criteria finally exist, someone says that there are no criteria because probably when they see that the competitions the council decides should be reported according to the criteria, so when they find that some criteria may not be the best one to be better, then there are no criteria. The criteria were not before, this is the first time that the criteria for how to get to the film were publicly published, how to get to the book, how to get to the exhibition, how to get to this or that. And that's the first time that's happened. Maybe, I'm not happy to use one argument, but I hope we understand each other about some argument. Maybe the criteria were when we finally approved three times four and a half million for three films in 1999 at the end of the year. Were those the criteria of some at the time? Did you even know the basis for this decision? Who decided about it? I mean, if this is the way we're gonna talk. We've already had a chance to listen to the inventory of evil. There is one Latin proverb, I hope to quote it well: “Abusus non tolit uzum.” Just because something is not good and in everything it worked best does not mean that it should be abolished. And here's actually the argument of the whole we've heard exclusively about it. The councils went, they raised the cultural public to a significantly higher degree of self-awareness. What was happening, that this ministry in that term had to answer to this or that request, that it had to permanently have to conflict, that it was also permanently criticised because it was called in a manner of criticism, it was a new phenomenon in Croatian culture that had not previously been in the history of Croatia. It wasn't because I said, that there were five countries in this same space only in the 20th century and that each imposed its own vision of culture and its vision of its own policy appology. This was the step that it was supposed to, yes, resolve. We are talking about the resignations and we are referring to this as an argument as to why, among other things, the Council's issue should be resolved in such a way as not to be asked by the Government on a proposal from the Minister but by the Minister himself. The settings are consummated. In the period when a natural cyclical shift of one part of the Council was to take place, we launched initiatives to fill the Council because each of these Councils had quorum at all times. But distinguished colleagues and colleagues and Mr. Minister, we're not talking about those councils here, but we're talking about how to pass a better Council Act. And if that law here took two readings and was adopted unanimously, doesn't it at least a little burden on the conscience of those who think that here where the institutes of autonomy and culture change significantly, this way, they can push for the short process of this liquid to be abolished. Only one public debate was organised because it couldn't have been otherwise. She was organized by her colleagues in the city because they were also under pressure and were concerned about what it means now. There wasn't one single man on that... The debate and there were about two hundred of them who at least did not ask to go into the ordinary procedure so as to compare the arguments on how, how should this Council be further developed? [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is an insult to the Croatian cultural public, a way, this way of passing this Law even if we do not enter into the measure of the law itself. That responsibility will be borne by those who suggest it without trying to hear the arguments that are very good in order to give them here an adjudication why should this be reconsidered? Even in the name of the HDZ Club, a few were mentioned to say, in this way, proposals that could not have been put in here, nor were they expressed in the form of amendments, and they had a metric and my own would have been many. I mean, the amendments, they don't clear things up. We have, we have the pressure of associations, but not any association but architects, so to speak, as a whole, is not responding to that. So I think it means what? We'll bring the law in the dark, we'll turn off the lights, and you'll complain afterwards. Well, I think that's how we pictured these councils appointed and resolved by the minister, so we showed what our relationship to the cultural public in Croatia is like. That's an explanation for each other, maybe even enough. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-31-0.u9103	I thank the esteemed representative Vujic. We have several corrections of incorrect allegations. The first is the distinguished representative byte.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-31-0.u9104	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I am correcting the incorrect quote of my colleagues, Vujic, concerning Rule 209 when he spoke about the autonomy of culture and cultural councils and transparency. Well, this is an incorrect allegation regarding past law and council work because here is only on the basis of the Cultural Council for Film and Cinema, the Council proposed financing the Croatian film alliance with an amount of 900 thousand kuna in 2003. The contract is concluded at a sum of 700. The Council proposed co-financing of a film worth 200 thousand kuna, and the contract was concluded with 280,000, and then it received another 100,000. The Council did not consider many programmes that were later approved in the amount of 280 thousand, 80 thousand and so on. So much for the transparency and autonomy of cultural councils. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-31-0.u9105	I thank the esteemed representative byte. Next for correcting the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-31-0.u9106	Mr. Vice-President, it is incorrect that MP Vujic said this bill is an insult to the Croatian cultural public. Insulting the Croatian cultural public is the way the councils have functioned so far, or rather, the way they did not work, and where they worked, I have no time to explain to you now, but I will explain later, they only functioned in favour of those who sat in those councils. That's one thing. The other thing you kept dragging through the thesis as the cultural councils were abolished. That's not true. That's just not true. This is the Cultural Council Act. Therefore, your thesis on dodging, on the abolition of cultural councils, is completely incorrect and inappropriate right now.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-31-0.u9107	In the second part, you corrected an incorrect quote. In the first you corrected the incorrect thinking of the distinguished representative Vujic. Next for the correction of the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative, Zvonimir Puljic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-31-0.u9108	Although this incorrect quote has already been corrected, he deserves to be corrected once more. The statement that the adoption, the way to adopt this Law is an insult to the Croatian public is incorrect because the method of adoption is in accordance with the powers of the Parliament and in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. However, such a formulation by MP Vujic is an insult to both the Parliament and the Croatian public.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-31-0.u9109	Thank you. And once again, it is the thinking or opinion of the esteemed representative, Antun Vujic. The replica was reported by the esteemed representative Martincevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-31-0.u9110	Mr. Vice-President, colleagues, if the proposal for this law is an insult to the Croatian cultural public, then I don't know how we might call it a silent approval when members of the existing councils have been giving their money to the people of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-31-0.u9111	The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative Vujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-31-0.u9112	I am not familiar with such a case, but I am familiar with the case of a committee decision that Mrs. Jagoda Martincevic had a different opinion. Only reading it on behalf of the Committee on Education, Culture and Science, decisions instead of vice presidents say that such threats truly exist even in this House.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-31-0.u9113	Thank you. Next up for discussion, next up for debate esteemed...... I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[/The intruder doesn't understand.]] Minister Bishop. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-31-0.u9114	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear MPs, dear representative Vujic, I wanted to tell this to my colleague on the roundtable, unfortunately, no architects have been invited. They called me, the president of their society complained that no one had called them on a round table. But now just a few comments you've used here enough words, talking about the inventory of evil. Dear MPs, the documentation that we are serving here is not Minister Biskupić's, but rather the documents we found at the Ministry of Culture and all that we state here is the documentation from the term of office from the four years 2000 to 2004. We do not present any of our documentation, I ask you to appreciate what has been said here on the basis of the documentation that we found in the Ministry of Culture.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-31-0.u9115	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear representative Jelena Pavicic Vukicevic please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-31-0.u9116	Thank you, Mr. President, distinguished colleagues and fellow respected ministers, allow me to briefly say a few thoughts about this bill, although I will probably repeat a good part of the debate not only on behalf of the clubs but individually. After the debate on the 2004 state budget, the Ministry of Culture and the Government had previously been able to expect one regulation to amend the criteria for the allocation of financial resources for certain programmes and public needs in culture than this proposal, and this final proposal of the Law on Cultural Councils could therefore be expected and concluded that the work of cultural councils was, in fact, impeccable to the criteria under which these cultural councils were working, at least, correct and transparent, if not impeccable. I therefore think it is important to also look back at the very short history of the national cultural councils, so the councils appointed by the government to the Minister's proposal after a public call to cultural institutions and associations, and artists and individuals who line up in the cultural sector. In doing so, I tend to believe that institutions and associations actually cared little about whether their proposals were politically more or less prone to the then government and minister. In a situation where all of these have been given the opportunity to autonomously decide on the budgets allocated to the cultural sector. I am inclined to believe that all these proposals were actually expert opinions, professional solutions, and the elected members of the council of those persons who could really measurely decide on cultural programmes by individual activities. However, instead of modifying for the allocation of p-ro budget money to cultural programmes and after the two-year work of the councils, when these councils could and in substance say much on the basis of their experience, the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Ministry of Culture suggest the modification of the cultural councils on whose work I consider that there were no too many polemic concepts in the public. Instead of seven members in the council, there will be five members, with the docking of continuous work. To those whose newspaper actually looks like a convenient rationalisation, I note that members of the council, as it has been pointed out many times already, are no longer appointed by the government but by the very person of the minister. Thus, the cultural councils become a technical aid to the very minister who can and does not have to respect the proposals of the cultural councils without giving a corresponding explanation to the public. Thus, the cultural council loses the purpose of its existence, namely decentralisation of decision-making power, professional competence for certain activities in culture, and ultimately but also very important transparency of the allocation of public money. The question is also raised which will be recognised by a public cultural worker and artist in the work of such a cultural council, when he knows that he does not actually decide anything and that any decision is subject to the Ministerial Final Court. In this way, civil servants in the ministry could work equally if they had a degree in the relevant university, and in the sense of the rationalisation already mentioned for such work would not be at all financially compensated because they would actually work within their working hours. Let me also underline two other legal provisions of this proposal of the Law on Cultural Councils, one by which the Councils for Architecture and Urbanism are abolished, and it is also proposed that the councils for media culture be abolished, first because of the cross-section of work with the Ministry of Spatial Planning and Construction. It's as if in this interdisciplinary society it's something bad and unacceptable not normal and desirable. And the second council for media culture because it also interacts with other areas. It actually looks like one heretic accusation. As an alibi, it can be written in an explanation that this bill offers an improvement of the situation introduces a new council, a council for international co-operation and European integration. It's really inadmissible and a bad alibi. According to the criteria under which the Council for Architecture and Urbanism has become superfluous and a new council has already been proposed by its name, it enters into the partial interest of the same name of the European Integration Ministry, and its establishment would also be completely ostensible. Let's at least be consistent. If we were to think about it that way, there shouldn't actually be a European integration ministry. Because this area, and for a somewhat longer period of time and a longer tradition, deals with a whole series of government and government organizations. Let me conclude, today, indeed anyone who has any business in the field of culture and cultural policy knows that there are also very prominent experts in our country who deal with cultural policies. And not only cultural policies in European Union countries, but also beyond. The relation to the public interest in culture and the stretching of rural programmes, of course, is also different in these countries of the European Union. But each of these cultural policies is very well, in fact, with surgical precision exactly knows the difference between spending public and private money. I'm afraid such a legal proposal in Croatia will lift that line. And he orders that in Croatian public money it is as if it is money from a private fund there is a rich cultural illustration. It is a completely unacceptable position but I am afraid soon and practice, because Croatian culture in the 21st century is obviously going towards privatisation and will not be subject to public criticism in accordance with public needs, and open to a transparent allocation of public funds. And that's actually the real difference between centralization and decentralisation of decision-making in the kutlura. And finally, allow me just one more note or comment that, in fact, by amending the law, we imply that the laws will change again when there is a new government on the Croatian political scene. Because if the Minister of Construction will no longer be one day Minister and architect Marina Matulović Dropulić, who hears about urbanism and some coordination for urbanism and kutlura, it actually means that we write the laws for ministers and not for Croatian culture in the 21st century, which is really unacceptable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-31-0.u9117	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations by the respected representative Maria Byte.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-31-0.u9118	Thank you very much, Mr. President, my colleague has made several incorrect allegations based on Article 209. Rules of Procedure. I am correcting the incorrect assumption that decentralisation is lost in this bill, which is not true. Because in Article 6 of the Cultural Council, an imperative is based on the areas of Zagreb County and a city that has more than 40,000 inhabitants. And it can be founded by other municipalities and cities if it feels meaningful. This is the incorrect quote of a colleague, and she also said that in the previous bill everyone had the opportunity to decide on the basis of the cultural councils, so in Article 4...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-31-0.u9119	Thank you, dear colleague Byte. Correction of the incorrect quote by colleagues, the respected representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-31-0.u9120	Mr. President, it is a completely incorrect assumption that this bill will give us a law that will not actually take care that the resources of all Croatian citizens are being decided on but that it will allegedly be private funds for some who will decide in such narrow circles. That's completely incorrect. In fact, the current mode of action has allowed people who are sitting to privatise the maximum resources. Unfortunately, I'll also have to present the specifics he's talking about later...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-31-0.u9121	Thank you, dear colleague Matušić. Dear Representative Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-31-0.u9122	Mr. President, ministers and associates, colleagues and colleagues. At the beginning of my debate, I would like to look back at some findings that have been made from the opening presentation to some discussions. It is said that this is the first step in democratisation and decentralisation in culture, however, I estimate that democratisation and decentralisation can only occur in any area of activity if the decision is removed from power, so it lowers to lower levels to those working in such activities, and to decentralisation and when the decision goes with the means. In other words, it would be the beginning of both democratisation and decentralisation in this case in culture and in every other area of human activity. We have also heard arguments that a new law should be passed because there are some arguments about the time to appoint or resolve that is long, that this should not be a reason to abolish the existing way in which cultural councils work but must be a reason to respect the procedures. So if something does not work because certain institutions do not act in accordance with the law, the practice should be changed. And if something was wrong with this bill, it tells me that the fact that they were going into the procedure of this law, and it was immediately announced by many who work in culture, so obviously they should listen a little bit to these people, and as far as I'm concerned, at least take off the emergency procedure and go with this law in the regular procedure. And now there's something I'd like to say briefly about why this law is being passed. It is said that the current Law on Cultural Councils has certain shortcomings and indeterminateness and that this primarily refers to the absence of cultural councils at local level because they are governed by the existing law as a university way. I don't think that's supposed to be a flaw. I think it should be further developed. It is then said that the mechanism of appointment and resolution of council members was too demanding. This isn't the first time we've had this kind of explanation. When we discussed a set of tax laws last week, the government also told us that some things cannot be solved because they are complicated because they need patterns and so on. I don't think it's the government's function to run away from demanding jobs but to actually have to solve them. It is further said when it comes to the law that the council, the appointment and resolution of cultural council members will be implemented more effectively so that they will be appointed by the minister after the invitation to tender. I think it doesn't mean, however, that if the government calls them that it's more demanding, it just depends on whether it's up to date on the government's agenda. If that wasn't the case, then it should be fixed, and not because of that, changing the law itself. And one more thing to say about the emergency procedure. These changes could be found as amendments to the existing law. The government has decided on a new law. I mean, I'll repeat again, it would be better to follow the regular procedure because this is the only way we're reading that the reason for the emergency procedure is that before the deadline can be resolved by the existing members of the existing cultural councils. And now a few sentences about the law itself. What are the differences in the existing law? There are several of them, but they have already been talked about, so it is a new way of appointing and resolving which I say should not and there should be some assessment that it also abolishes the existing autonomy in decision-making, because this time there is no obligation to align the views between members of the council, i.e. the Council itself and the Minister. Therefore, the minister is not obliged or obliged to comply with his decisions with the Council's decisions or to respond publicly to them. If that hasn't been done by now, I'll repeat it again, it's not a reason to abolish the law, it's a matter of respect for procedure. As regards the regulation of the obligation to set up councils at the level of cities of more than 40,000 inhabitants, i.e. at the county level, I think that it should leave the decision of their representative bodies in what way they will decide, because unfortunately it should be said that in many cities in the budgets they are so tense that in fact for these purposes other than to say the basic one, which is for basic activity, material costs and wages very little remains funds and it has been seen in these tenders that most cities and counties of their projects actually, their projects appeared at the state level looking for funding or co-financing. And indeed, in the end, the question can be asked, what will be the function of the cultural councils if the minister remains the only arbitration officer, if there is no harmonisation of views and if the cultural councils do not decide on financial resources, that is to say, the funding that will be monitored by certain programmes. This loses the possibility of assessing cultural programmes, projects and projects in investment and financing them or co-financing from the state budget. Since we do not follow in the state budget in any ministry, not in any culture by project but by means, by individual projects, but by means of funds, it can really happen that some programmes that would be co-financed in this way will not be taken into account this time regarding local and regional projects. And finally, I would ask you, I think you'd like to take your word for it, to answer me what will happen to the existing open public tenders that were open at the end of last year, or which should have been this year. How will they get rid of it since we from the county are very interested in it because both our municipalities and cities and counties have applied for these competitions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-31-0.u9123	Thank you. Dear representative... Before Mr. Culture Minister, Bozo Bishop. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-31-0.u9124	Dear MPs, councils and that last year's competitions, the councils worked until last year, until the new year, did their job and those programs they decided on, the solution will be financed and those solutions will exist, we have not abolished anything. But I wanted to comment on how a few MPs were already talking about it, about college. The result of the Faculty of our Law, it seems to me in 98 years in libraries is that there is still a little more than 200 people's libraries missing in Croatia. Because in the Law at that time, we left the university so that municipalities could start libraries. Unfortunately, the result is very defeated, I think about 235 libraries are still missing in Croatia. Because of the college decision.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-31-0.u9125	Honored representative of Jagoda Maja Martincevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-31-0.u9126	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, gentlemen of the Ministry, fellow MPs. I must admit that the beginning of this contribution to the debate has changed one moving thought of the former culture minister who, if I'm not mistaken, said that the existing cultural council was in crisis. Yeah, he said so, she's been in crisis for two years, but they're good at it now, let's let them work on it. I ask you, gentlemen, at the beginning, is the state a sanatorium that has to wait two years for its legal mechanisms to work? I don't think so. And there is no rhetorical question why is the existing Cultural Council Act to be amended? The answer is very simple, because the bad is over in all its segments. The existing law did not primarily function in its basic determination, which means in the responsibilities of those who were to implement it. The councils, as has already been said here several times, worked in the bristles, not the prescribed compositions. The resignations were frequent, and the new appointments were lagging behind for a year or longer. Furthermore, the existing Law did not prevent a conflict of interest which the public was buzzing about because certain members of their own projects or companies granted large amounts of money, of course, to taxpayers, and that despite the frequent warnings of the public, it was never sanctioned. Furthermore, the existing Law has done nothing to decentralisation and democratisation of decisions in smaller environments and what, in my opinion, the most important existing Law did not commit to responsibility, but to no one, nor the Council, nor the Minister. Those who tried to carry it out were doing it wrong and that's why we had so many protests in public both the council and cultural employees. All these shortfalls, the new bill corrects. It is nice and popular to speak about decentralisation and democratisation of decision-making, but if these principles do not work in practice, we call such a declaration a mere demagogy. Because how else do you explain the protest that states the status of the National Council for Culture was offended when the current National Council in two years, except for the constitutional session, met only once. Who, then, has violated the status of the National Council? The ones that didn't work or the ones that suggest change? Furthermore, which means complaints about changing the number of council members from the existing 7 to 5, now proposed, because this reduced number allegedly abolishs the present, I quote: "On cultural pluralism, based councils", I conclude a quote, when it is known that the current councils have mostly acted on the mares, sometimes with only three members, and those who have resigned have not been found to replace, sometimes not after a year. After all, you've heard from the presentation of colleagues just before, a series of such examples. Do such examples need comments? I don't think so, because the data speaks for itself enough, or they speak for themselves about the irresponsibility of those who are so loud today, against the proposal for a new law. With regard to the establishment of councils at city and county level, the objections are also very loud with entirely illogical explanations that small areas do not require councils for certain activities such as film or publishing. This is certainly true and no one in this environment will establish such a council, but the fact is that the profiles of the councils in these environments will not be prescribed but will be formed according to the natural needs of the environment, which is precisely the essence of decentralisation of decision-making, i.e. providing the most democratic options in co-decision on the cultural developments of these environments. As for the alleged special international reputation, which I quote, "The model of the current cultural councils has brought to Croatia," it argues, "a great international affirmation", wonders that they are so shyly shown in the cultural development strategy of the Ministry of Culture in the past term of the government, because otherwise, it would be an accent of positive news in the vision of improving the cultural activities of the Republic of Croatia. Since that is not the case, which can be recorded and proved, I fear that our international reputation for culture was not entirely dependent on the current model of cultural councils. Finally, why is it necessary for a new law on cultural councils to be passed in an emergency procedure? It is very simple, fellow Members, so that cultural activities in all their segments would finally work as soon as possible, on the basis of new legal legislation and more importantly, so that those who propose this Law can be consciously responsible for its implementation. The issue of responsibility must be one of the most important issues in all of this because the new law will end the conflict of interest that has already been discussed with many words, which in the Committee on Books and publishing had its most drastic examples. The new bill simply prevents conflict of interest and that is one of its most important values. Resuming, therefore, the provisions of the current and the proposal for a new law on cultural councils, it should be argued on the basis of clear indicators, that the proposal for a new law clearly determines the responsibility of those who have to implement this law, that it provides clearer criteria for future councils to work on, that it abolishs even the slightest possibility of conflict of interest and that it brings particularly important and necessary decentralisation in decision-making, by establishing cultural councils in the counties and cities with more than 40,000 inhabitants. Furthermore, the establishment of the Council for International Cultural Co-operation and European Integration, the presentation of Croatian culture and Europe and the world will certainly gain the importance that is necessary during the period during which Croatia will be formally integrated into the European Community. It is also of paramount importance and a new commitment to cultural councils in the proposal for a new law that requires promoting the needs of culture and the art of national minorities and their cultural creation. Finally, by adopting amendments to the Assembly Committee on Education, Science and Culture on the establishment of a Council on New Media Culture, the Ministry of Culture is witnessing its openness to good ideas and initiatives, especially when it comes to an interdisciplinary area covering the most diverse cultures of the media, and especially those related to youth creation. By rounding up its proposal for a new law on cultural councils, the Ministry of Culture of the Republic of Croatia proposes a good and fair law that should certainly be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-31-0.u9127	Honorable representativeplatimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-31-0.u9128	Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor. I'm just gonna refer to a few things. I particularly think that this law is unnecessary, i.e. if, if already, it is unnecessary for him to adopt an emergency procedure, because he is working on a law that will regulate the decision-making process in half the financial year, and, as my colleague Zgrebec has said, asked, in fact, what will happen to the ones where cities, municipalities and counties have made a public call, and where solutions have not been made, so for funding from this financial year. Will it be decided whether or not we will wait somewhere in the middle of the year, because it will take about 2 months for the councils to be established, to establish, and to study these demands, will the new council then make a decision on the requirements for funding from the state budget? I personally think that the minister still has enough power to direct public needs financing in culture today, and that if there was a need to amend the law or to pass a new law, then it should have been termed so that it could come into effect, that the new cultural council would come into force with a new public call, so that it would decide what would happen for 2005. I think that this is how we create one uncertainty in local regional self-government units, because ultimately, for four months now, there has been no decision, no funding, no competitions, no movement in various works, so there is a danger that some of these funds will not ultimately be used. The arguments that are repeatedly mentioned here that there was a conflict of interest, that they were sitting like this or people like that in those cultural councils, they're a little absurd to me, because I'm asking the question, then who's going to sit in the new cultural councils? Are people who will sit in new cultural councils not going to be one of those who have sat down before, or will some people sit without vice, or will some people who are not creators sit, so in those four years, they will do nothing, nor ask for any funding from the state budget in order not to be in conflict of interest? In the end, I don't understand it at all from the discussion, is the problem in the law, or is the problem in people sitting in cultural councils? What's supposed to change? Or this is an excuse to actually change the existing members of the cultural council, which are being renewed every two years anyway. So if there was a problem then, it should have been done, and it might not go to a whole new law. Here it stands out for implementation, that the implementation of this law will not require additional funds and we are full of decentralisation. I must conclude that those who speak or who have mentioned today decentralisation in connection with this law do not know what decentralisation is. It would be good to read what decentralisation is. decentralisation does not mean that you establish a cultural council at the city or municipality level, because then decentralisation would be even greater if you could establish a ministry, then you would be absolutely decentralisationd. decentralisation means you get powers, but you get money for those powers. Here it is only prescribed that in part of the units of local administration and self-government, the way they will decide on money, which exists in the budgets of the local administration and self-government units. I have to congratulate the minister on the courage of the idea of introducing a cut because of culture is really brave. I congratulate you from your heart, I would be very happy if you were in a position to question the crop cut, that would be a very great achievement, which would mean that we have solved all the other problems and that we can discuss the crop tax. But the idea is great, I have to admit, the only thing we're going to wait until we're probably 2 o, 30 years for is for some city or community to make a cut to get cultural funding. If it were indeed decentralisation, then this law, namely the state budget, would provide for decision-making from state cultural councils to be brought down to the cultural councils of municipalities and cities and counties. Then the state budget would also provide for the money to be reduced to those levels of decision-making. Not to set up councils to decide what exists in urban, municipal and county budgets anyway. Otherwise, I don't think it's a well-defined article 14 that says that local cultural councils will have to be established, or act adopted by 31. 2., and the Council set up 30 days later, I think it is much better for the councils to set up, for example, by September 30th, or adopt an act, to call the council to meet the needs of culture and to establish the budgetary item in the budgets of the units of local self-government in the following year. So, I think that would be a lot better if we were going to that. We in Koprivnica have a cultural council, I don't see any reason why you should re-establish it. I have seven members, half appointed to four years, half to two years. One half expires at nine months this year. I don't see why I'd have to change that cultural council right now. And this specifically requires this law, specifically requires this law from me, because Article 15 says that the appointment of new members ends the term of office of existing members of cultural councils. Furthermore, I see no reason to establish cultural councils at County level. Countys do not have county cultural institutions, mainly the founders of institutions, cities and municipalities, the counties do not have that. and the funds allocated to the culture in the county are much smaller than the funds allocated to the culture in the cities, so now from the local city budget. I think there should be cultural councils in the cities, so that I've even made an amendment not to be 40,000 inhabitants of the city, because these cities are only 11, I suggest it be 30,000. Because we've allowed such cities to have decentralised primary schools, so I suggest that it be a criterion, that we have that criterion then as a criterion, and that these cities have 18, these are mostly county seats, and then we motivate them to actually set it up. But let's give them the money, because we have a totally dissonant discussion. We had the day before yesterday, or Friday's debate on the HNS's bill on income tax, where HDZ colleagues said it would not be good to decentralise income tax. Today, the minister told the opening statement that income would be decentralised for culture. And that would be great, it would be great if the state would decentralisation income tax for culture, encourage cultural development and local level. Because ultimately about a lot of problems or needs and meeting public needs in culture are better articulated and recognized right in cities, in cities. And it would be good if we could do it. It was mentioned, and there are 200 people's libraries missing. Libraries are desirable and necessary institutions. However, libraries are expensive. It is impossible to establish 200 libraries in Croatia and to be financed by the local community. For this, the money currently detached from the state budget should be spent approximately. It should be seen that the parent services that will then be served by municipalities that cannot have it or to continue the library project, which started in Croatia 4 Bibles were created, I think another four or five are planned. So I think it would be good to put this law in the first reading and that if it were necessary to amend the law because the cultural councils didn't work well for us, or because people in these cultural councils were in a terrible conflict of interest, but certainly to do this budget year in a stable way, and then to start with a public call for a new budget year, so from the 9th month on. And it is also prescribed then in Article 14 that the Government amends that those who establish cultural councils in municipalities and cities that these cultural councils must, for example, be established by 30 September to make a public call for a new budget year. And I suggest the motion to leave out the county as a place where the establishment of cultural councils is mandatory. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-31-0.u9129	Thank you. Dear Representative Jozo Topic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-31-0.u9130	The debate on this Proposal for a Law on Cultural Councils so far led primarily from the big cities' point of view while neglecting the situation in smaller areas. While this bill seeks to correct this situation, I fully welcome the urgency of this Law with the particularly mandatory establishment of cultural councils in cities that have more than 40,000 inhabitants. In this way, and this is the position of all Bosniak cultural institutions would ensure the direct impact of direct cultural factors in deciding on the cultural policy of a particular whole. Especially with regard to public needs in the culture of these environments, which contributes to further decentralisation in the area of culture. Then, with this Bill proposal, there is a link between cultural constitutionals, i.e. their administrations, with the establishment of especially those institutions that do not have administrative councils. In this way, it is possible to co-determine the allocation of budgets for cultural programmes, and thus have a direct impact on programme, programming policy and the needs of a particular environment in the cultural segment. Only those cultural councils that are needed would be established in these environments, thus denying the complaints raised in the debate so that the establishment of all councils in these areas would be counterproductive, i.e. they could not be properly teamed. Such a legal proposal is good and acceptable to respected colleagues and colleagues. And from the point of view of economics because it will not require greater burden on city budgets, given the small number, five council members and the administrative technical needs of these councils are easy to secure within the existing city administrations. From all of this, dear colleagues and colleagues, I invite you to join and support this bill that is before us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-31-0.u9131	Thank you very much. Correction of an incorrect quote by a respected colleague, Pavicic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-31-0.u9132	Thank you very much. I would like to correct the incorrect allegations in the work when Mr. Representative says that therefore the cultural council will be established as necessary in the units of local self-government. Namely, this proposal, i.e. The final bill actually foresees the formation of only one cultural council, which I repeat for the city of Zagreb will indeed not be possible to implement.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-31-0.u9133	Dear Representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-31-0.u9134	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Minister, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs. Today we were able to listen to this debate of this Law on Cultural Councils a lot and reasoned but also quite unargumented discussions, so let me start with the fact that we could actually explain to the Croatian public what it is when we are talking today about the functioning of cultural councils and the current law. Namely, the first and most basic fact that needs to be pointed out is that the national council that was founded under this Law has been formed, all once in the past two years, met. That's enough alarming information for all those who deal with culture to amend a complete law. Just based on this fact, then, not to mention the following facts now. Thus, the fact that the national council in charge of the national programme of culture and cultural development did not meet but only once sufficiently indicates that the law and its implementation were ineffective and that certain changes had to be made urgently even in the term of the former minister. Furthermore, as these councils worked, I'm going to give a very clear picture of what my predecessors actually made me do when they talked about that there was no conflict of interest, etc. I'll take just one example of the work of a council and that's the Council for Book and Publishing. So let me now present to the Croatian public the fact that this Council worked. The Council was attended by persons, respected persons from this cultural area, who were of course related to certain publishing houses. So they were either co-owners of these same publishing houses or editor-in-chiefs or in some other direct relationship with these publishing houses. Since this Law on Cultural Councils did not prevent conflict of interest, it did not prevent these same people from voting and making a proposal to finance their publishing houses. So specifically, I am the President of the Council, Mr Lucanovic, whom we can link to the publishing house... Let's say that house got 540,000 kuna. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Furthermore, the charge of the Left One whose member sits in the Council is more than 2.5 million kuna is assigned to that same load. Next, Mr. Golstay is a representative of the house antibarbarus, 710 thousand kunas were assigned to this same house. Mr. Viskovic, representing the publishing house of the consortium, has been awarded a million and 200 thousand kuna to that same publishing house. Mr Maleš's Lunapark, which is also a member of the 650, 2,000 kuna Council. Former Assistant Minister Mr. Chegec, whom we can link to the publishing house... His here, the publishing house got a million and 600 thousand kuna. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So only when all of this is summed up is we get more than 7 million kunas. In one council alone, the cultural council has a clear conflict of interest where people who are connected to these publishing houses actually give to each other in this case 7, over 7.5 million kuna. So such an eclectic example of conflict of interest does not deserve our attention and attention to the Croatian public but deserves to really ask ourselves what sanctions to be taken in this case, in particular in cases. So I think this kind of radicular council doesn't deserve to change the law, but it deserves a lot more attention from those who should take care of culture. So, the talk of this Law was about decentralisation completely opposite of the truth. This was about centralisation of funds and the ability to decide on these funds a narrow circle of people who allocated these funds to their homes. So that's what this is about. That is what the Croatian public should be familiar with. Therefore, I am sorry that Mr. Former Minister Vujic has no knowledge of these matters. As he said: “I have no knowledge, no, I am not, I don’t know what this is about. Here's a fellow MP, these are the specific data that's been verified. We can give you, I can give you the information. I made a little effort to collect it. Besides, these councils had other duties. For example, they could have proposed certain amendments to the law, they could have listened a little to any public, so they could have, for example, been able to say, if we were talking about the Council of Music Stage Activity, they could clearly hear from professional associations that it was necessary to amend the Law on Theatres. It is not clear why the amendments and additions of the laws that have come from professional associations have not been considered at all, nor have the Council encouraged the amendment of that Law. A short time ago also mentioned the Law on Film and Cinematography, which has not been mentioned in the last three, four years. Therefore, it is clear that the councils operating over the past period have functioned solely for the sake of the personal interests of the individuals sitting in those councils. I'm not going to say that they were all or that all the councils worked like that, but this example of the Book and Publishing Council points out unfortunately that it was a practice. Therefore, such practice should be urgently interrupted and it is absolutely necessary for this law to be adopted in an emergency procedure. I think this is quite enough for the Croatian public to know clearly what this is all about. Also, if we talk about the role and powers of the cultural councils under the new proposal for the laws, the cultural councils continue to co-operate in the definition of cultural policy, propose programmes, provide expert assistance to the minister, provide expert basis opinions and proposals, and so on. Therefore, all these improvements that are adopted in the new Bill Proposal are indeed going towards decentralisation by the very fact that cultural councils are set up, the founding obligations, the under-level commitments in the counties and cities of more than 40,000 inhabitants clearly state the intention of this ministry to indeed be at these levels and to co-operate on the issue of culture. It is also an exceptional intention, as Mr. Minister said, that the funds were maintained, specifically decentralisation. to bring them down to lower levels and allow local self-government units to finance cultural programmes from these funds. Here I think this is clear enough and accurate enough for the Croatian public to know why we are going to change the Law on Cultural Councils, what are the real reasons? And these are the real reasons because it's about, uh, concrete persons, it's about a particular conflict of interest and it's about really alarming things for the Croatian cultural public who unfortunately may not have all the information or could have come to them, but here I hope that from today's debate one complete picture of it will be able to have [[Good job! Give it up. /]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-31-0.u9135	Correction of incorrect allegations, respected representative Jelena Pavicicic-Vukicevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-31-0.u9136	Thank you very much. And now apropo of this conflict of interest of the members of the Council, given that the members of the Council are actually persons who have proposed different associations, the institutions in culture are really about people who are domestical in culture. There is, therefore, an article in this proposal regarding the exemption of members of the Council from decision-making. So there's no change, and you can't put it as an argument. A member of the Council who is directly, personally interested in making a decision on a matter may take part in the debate on the matter, but... from the decision-making process. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] So it's an incorrect assumption that you treat it with this law, and that the law so far has not actually been consummated.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-31-0.u9137	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative Antun Vujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-31-0.u9138	Mr. President, everyone has an opinion of their own, so I'm not going to engage in opinions, although they're just a set of allegations. However, repeatedly speaking of how to suspect some councils that they were sitting there just because of personal responsibility is something not only unacceptable but also very ugly. And the difference between this law and what's about to come is that based on what you're going to have and what you had information you can say this at all otherwise incorrectly, and in the future you won't be able to do it.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-31-0.u9139	Thank you, colleague Vujic. Dear colleague Alenka Kosisa-Cicchin-Shain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-31-0.u9140	Thank you. Dear Mr. Minister, I have not answered your comment earlier, my debate, but as much as this topic is sensitive to the fact that these days in Zagreb, in Zagreb, I have brought a round table of two hundred public workers, and it is precisely from the culture, and all of them have written to you one, one request, one letter asking that the amendment of this Law be made to a regular procedure, in a normal procedure so that there may be further discussions on it, so that certain things may be considered more specifically, and also the Association of Architects, or the Association of Croatian Architects, has sent you a public letter for the same reasons, asking that the Council for Culture, for architecture and urbanism should not be excluded from this, from the list of the Council that were so far. The Ministry of Environmental Protection, and especially not the Council, which is the basis of the Law on Spatial Planning established by this Ministry, certainly does not have in its part a promotion, I reiterate the cultural and artistic aspect of architecture and urbanism, the activities, but if the name itself says it is the Ministry of Environment and Construction. As just before, a fellow Member pointed out by changing the profession or by changing the minister in that ministry, which means that someone who will have less hearing than the minister so far will not make any contribution at all? The affirmation of this area as part of the activities of the Ministry of Culture has barely been seen in the past term as crucial to the recognition of the cultural identity of our country, especially in this new European environment of the United Europe, and by abolishing this Council, the increasingly significant area of culture and activity and cultural policy remains completely uncovered by measuring decisions or proposals. In addition, what I advocate is the return of this Law only in a regular procedure, giving it to the general public, and also to us, through public debate, to express our opinions and opinions, and to you, too, the time to reconsider your decisions. As far as we're concerned, we're a little bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a college thing, but it's true that in the previous meeting, there wasn't enough engagement, let's call it cities and councils at the level of local self-government units, but the fact that the law didn't consistently implement is not enough reason for the law to change. I allow the lack of a cultural strategy that has not been adopted, however, these are not all reasons for changing the law or at least not for such a change of law and not for changing the law by an urgent procedure. The style of lawmaking is just a reflection of the way this law regulates changes the content. Change style. And once again I appeal to the detention of the Council for Architecture and Urbanism and to the regular procedure for the adoption of this Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-31-0.u9141	Thank you. Just a little bit of minister, we still have, uh, the speaker list is exhausted. We only have on behalf of the SDP Club a respected representative of Vujic for five minutes discussion. Are you going to have ministers now or wait for this final debate? You'll wait. Dear Representative Antun Vujic on behalf of the SDP Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-31-0.u9142	Thank you, Mr. President. Instead of the resume, out there? No, I can get out of here. All right. Instead of the summary I would actually ask a few questions on which we have heard here about the government's side and representatives and representatives of the leading club, i.e., the majority club several different opinions. So I'm curious about what's true. First, Mrs. Martincevic said she needs to go to an urgent post-opportunity of this law so that decisions can be made. Drugo Mr. Bishop said that on the question of Mrs. Zgrebec, what will happen to the programmes that are under way whether to finance it and so on. That there would be no change or that I at least realized that it would somehow make up its mind the way it was going. However, decisions have not been made, as far as I am told, there were no council meetings to confirm any decisions concerning this current budget. There are somehow commitments to what goes according to the contract and what is financed over the years that is different. But there is therefore a vast eternity is not that nature at all. Which is actually true then. And secondly, not to point out enough about this debate, maybe it's my fault that I didn't say it hard enough and hard enough at the time, so some of them may not have paid attention, but Mrs. Zgrebec noticed it in particular. According to this concept, the councils don't even discuss the funds. So the councils are not discussing the funds, but are giving strategic advice in order to make decisions, it needs an urgent coup. Under current law, these decisions can be made if these councils ask what decisions look like, they are not called together. This is not very complicated what I'm saying, although it seems logical as if there are five, six sentences that follow each other. But it points to one contradiction. This law should be adopted by an urgent procedure in order to be able to make decisions which are not based on either these councils because they have not been made and will not be charged for future councils, because even the future councils will not, in fact, make decisions primarily concerning financial nature. So please give it nice to see what it's all about. I think the question is enough as a finding. Thank you very much. Please, it's our conclusion of the club that we're asking for a prolongation and a law to be passed in a second reading. This is our proposal, and we pray that soon it will come in writing hope that it will be there now.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-31-0.u9143	Thank you. Thank you very much. Minister of Culture Bozo Biskupić please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-31-0.u9144	Thank you, Mr. President, I thank you for the debate. There have been unwarranted fears, there have been good proposals For the fear of the Daleks in Article 1, paragraph 2, which says, in the achievement of the tasks set out in paragraph 1 of this Article, provide expert assistance to the Minister in the adoption and implementation of the annual and long-term public needs programmes in culture... For the Republic of Croatia and their funding there were questions that people would be sitting in new cultural councils, people would be sitting who enjoyed the trust of institutions. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Which will be proposed by the culture association. And who can't create a conflict of interest. This time, the law says for every case, it has to say that I hope that there will no longer be an excerpt of interest in that we are in several articles, and of course we are ready to work on it. And you emphasized it yourself. But that's also what certain articles about who might actually be invited to those councils are talking about. I hope that it will even be in new councils and I am happy that it will be one greater width by analysing the current composition of the council, it can be seen that the concentration of the large association is in Zagreb but over 90% of the council members are here from Zagreb. And I hope that in the next debate of this competition that associations from other parts and cities of Croatia will appear, that we will have such complex councils that people can recognize the needs of their regions. And when it comes to this decentralisation, I am firmly convinced that we will succeed in this year as well in our wishes, that this is the first stage, that with this second step and impact of course on the tax income and income law, we will succeed and thus provide funds for local self-government units so that they can decide for themselves the programmes that are most important to them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-31-0.u9145	Thank you. Since the respected representative Antun Vujic announced on behalf of the SDP a proposal for a conclusion on the putting of this bill in the ordinary procedure. However, given that there is a decision by this Assembly in determining the agenda that an emergency procedure has been adopted in the adoption of the licensor's bill on your proposal if and when you submit that the amendment of the Parliament's decisions on urgency will be decided by the vote on Friday when there is a vote on all others and also on the legislative proposal. I am concluding a debate on this bill, Final draft law on cultural councils, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 64. The debate on the text of the law is over. In accordance with the SDP Representatives' proposal, I am voting on the next conclusion. The final proposal for a law on cultural councils was discussed in the first reading. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Restraint? I find that 75 votes against the proposal for a conclusion, 37 for and 1 abstention. Accordingly, the conclusion was not accepted to go, to go to first reading. Let's get to the amendments. There's a list, a table divided by MPs. I ask the Minister of Culture, Bozo Bishop, to show himself about the amendment proposal. Amendment number one.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-31-0.u9147	It's unacceptable. The same article states that the work of the cultural council is public.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-31-0.u9148	Dear representative Jelena Pavicic-Vukicevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-31-0.u9149	Dear Minister, such a sentence has indeed stood in the current Law on Cultural Councils, and the fact that in modern society the issue of public work should actually be imperative and that it should be incorporated into all legal norms. And this sentence that the public works of the council are provided by the presidents of the council, and that they are responsible, I also consider it necessary in this proposal, the final draft of the law. And for that reason, I demand a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-31-0.u9150	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? I'm saying he didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment number 2, also Ms. Pavičić-Vukicevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-31-0.u9151	It's unacceptable. The Ministry of Culture is not the parent ministry of urban and architecture, but it is the Ministry of Environmental Protection, Spatial Planning and Construction and therefore we see the purpose of the council in the ministry. Architects and urbanists are not left out of participation in the work of the council in the Ministry of Culture.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-31-0.u9152	Dear Representative Jelena Pavicicic-Vukicevic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-31-0.u9153	Thank you very much. With respect indeed to everything that has been said, not only in the debate on this final proposal for a law on cultural councils but indeed all the information that has been made public and even the reactions of the organisations themselves that are directly interested, I believe that the current Council on Architecture and Urbanism has justified its existence by doing so, I hope that by actually voting on this amendment, this irregularity could be corrected, that this Council is left out from the final proposal of the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-31-0.u9154	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. I'm saying he didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment number 3. HDZ Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-31-0.u9155	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-31-0.u9156	Thank you. It becomes an integral part of the Law. It also became amendment number four. The Education Committee...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-31-0.u9157	Consumed.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-31-0.u9158	...science and culture consummated because it was voted in the previous amendment accepted. Amendment number 5 of the same HDZ representative club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-31-0.u9159	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-31-0.u9160	Thank you. It becomes an integral part of the Law. Amendment number 6 of Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-31-0.u9161	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-31-0.u9162	Thank you. It becomes an integral part of the Law. And amendment number seven. HDZ Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-31-0.u9163	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-31-0.u9164	Thank you. It becomes an integral part of the Law. Thank you, Minister. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? I find that with 75 votes in favour, 37 against the Law on Cultural Councils in the text as proposed by the Proposer together with the amendments adopted. It would now be on the agenda of a point, a proposal for a decision on the list of companies of special national interest. We have no conditions because the board has not completed its debate and sent the report to the plenary session. The next item is the Report on Pension Markets in the Republic of Croatia in 2002. This is where the Committee on Finance and the State Budget proposed that the report carried out by the Committee on Finance and Budget should not now be discussed. It is to conclude that the Pension Funds and Insurance Supervisory Agency is bound to submit to the Croatian Assembly the basic characteristics of those markets in 2002 in the Report on Pension Markets in the Republic of Croatia in 2003. So before the debate is opened in view of this proposal for a Committee on Finance and the State Budget, I am obliged to put this proposal to the vote. I'm putting it to the vote. So, please, who is this proposal's conclusion? Thank you very much. Against? Thank you. Abstained? Thank you. I find this conclusion came from the 93rd vote for and one abstention.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-31-0.u9167	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Assistant Minister, colleagues and fellow advocates. As you know, in the last session, the Croatian Parliament adopted amendments and additions to the Act on the Part-Corruption of Ministry and State Administration Organizations and in this law was created, so this law formed a new large state administration called the State Protection and Rescue Authority. The law also determines the part-time work of that administration and stipulates that the administration will start work, and that the law itself will apply from 1 January of next year, which is good. So it was time for the government to prepare several laws and also for sublegal acts, above all, in the regulations needed to apply the law. It is precisely on the trail that the Croatian Peasant Party sent the Croatian Parliament the final proposal of the Protection and Rescue Act because it believes that this law is important for the functioning of not only this administration but for the offices to apply in this area. As you also know, the conclusion of the Croatian Parliament has been removed from the emergency procedure and this law is in the first reading before you. What did we want with this law? We wanted to propose to the Croatian Parliament that not only the issue of firepower should be settled. I repeat, many times in public, it is wrong to point out that this is a fire law rather than to determine regulation, i.e. that the state regulation determines the behaviour of all entities in disasters, as well as in disasters that can take catastrophes, which has not been regulated anywhere so far. I have to tell you colleagues and colleagues that finally for the first time in this space is formed, created, that is, from 1.1 next year, one state administration and that all firefighters, as well as the entire Croatian civil protection, the mountain rescue service as well as all other services will finally get what I have to call the ministry, of course it's not called the Ministry of State Administration. In this law we tried, not only tried, but indeed wrote it and proposed it to the Croatian Assembly and part-time work by determining the exact jurisdiction of such administration, i.e. specifically that administration. As far as I know, the Croatian Government is preparing draft laws, and it is likely to send new laws to this Parliament very quickly, or proposals for a law on fire and proposals for civil protection laws, believing that this is important and considering that these laws should be passed before this law is passed, and that is finally seen from the government's opinion on this proposal by the Croatian Peasant Party. I believe that this law has nothing to do with these laws directly, but I still think it is good that the Croatian government is proposing new laws because the situation in both fire and civil protection is unsatisfactory and frequent changes to these laws, and in particular the frequent changes in the last ten years have not naturally changed into many states which are the same as it is. What is further important is that this law uses legal standards when you have carefully read the text of the law. In fact, we have come from the fact that we do not define the names of the service, i.e. the bodies that will deal with protection and rescue, for a very practical reason, that by changing the legislation in the areas governed by the regulation, i.e. the state administration will not necessarily have to amend the other laws and, above all, those two laws, but also the regulations in the Mountain Rescue Service, and also the regulations in emergency medical care and regulation relating to centre 112. In fact, it wanted to agree, through the legal standards, one possibility for the state to continue, of course, regulation in these areas, but that this does not mean further complexity and added amendment to those laws. This law actually wanted to concentrate three things in one state administration. It was intended to really be in one state administration a maximum concentration of knowledge, so people, concentration of material goods and concentration of power. I only mention to you colleagues and fellow MPs that in the previous government, literally 7 ministries took care of only the fire department. If I'm not mistaken, now the new structure of the State Fire Department is taking care of four ministries. It's hard to convince me that something can work very well for the four ministries of care. Their interlink is the government, the government is a link, but we don't have the power to decide in one place. When we wrote this law, you saw for yourself that there is no assessment of the necessary means, and I will tell you two reasons why it is. The first reason is that it is difficult to assess how much funds will be needed to implement this law, but it is quite certain that the means that will be needed for the implementation of this law are, before that, the means to form a state administration and to put it physically somewhere, so to find a building. We believe that, in fact, the implementation of this law will not require more resources than it is otherwise used for the work of these services, because in fact all people and all material goods will be united in one place and surely this administration will be more efficient and, by some assessment, even less wasteful. Of course, at this interval which refers to the start of the work of the administration, i.e. By 1 January of next year, the Government will not only because of this law, and I have no illusion of what the result of the vote will be in the Croatian Parliament, but I repeat because of the law proposed by the Government itself by the Croatian Parliament, I must also pass several laws, I repeat first of all the Civil Protection Act and the Law on... but it will also have to adopt a regulation on the internal structure of this administration, this state administration of protection and rescue, and that is why we did not deal with its structure in this law because it is not the subject of this law. [[You don't understand.]] It will also have to be whether I'm the Director, whether the Government adopts a series of other regulations, and the director himself will have to adopt a rules on the system of job systems, of course, along with all the procedures that must pass in the Government. Not to elaborate on your condition, I repeat, in civil protection, neither in the fire department nor in the mountain rescue service, and I must stress that it is an integral part of this law, because it has begun to get the more difficult that we have forgotten them, that they are not important, and we have, of course, included them in the proposal for this law. What I'm saying is, as far as the ambulance is concerned, emergency medical attention. Of course, this law does not touch ownership of institutions engaged in emergency medical care, this law only regulates its work, i.e. the possibility of state intervention in the work of that service when necessary, or when it comes to disasters. It is no one's idea that this law changes ownership of emergency care facilities, nor is it the subject matter of this law. What I want to say further, I want to emphasise the special importance of the center 112. As you know when you need something or when you really find yourself in a position to call someone called an ambulance, firemen and other services doing this job, you actually have a few numbers. There is no unique connection between the user and the centre. Unfortunately, we still have a center for excitement or for alarming as Pero says, so I repeated it, and observation that works within the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Croatia. If I'm not wrong, the centres that are territorially divided around the Republic of Croatia employ 500 and some people. I repeat, the centres are not part of the main headquarters, so they are not part of the Croatian Army, but they are with the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Croatia and we consider them so-called. military business. Whether I admit it or not, what was at the Department of Defense was either at headquarters or not at headquarters is military affairs, and it's about extremely important civil affairs. Let's not forget that when the World Bank borrows such programs, and we have the right to credit such programs, it doesn't lend military programs. He's crediting the so-called. civil programs. Thus, there is no division between military and civil affairs and what is important for the functioning of these centres. Of course, I'll look back on your debate, doubtless there will be questions, there will be suggestions, etc. But I'm still obliged to say something about the government's opinion. The government therefore states in its opinion that it writes its own text of the protection and rescue law. I agree that finally that law sees the light of day whether this one is adopted or not. We think we should use the time as soon as possible. In fact, time is a very important factor, and I'll tell you why. There's a fire season coming up. You know, Mr. Assistant, what are the problems of every year, for which all the government answers, and you will surely, colleagues and colleagues, when something is wrong with that, ask the government a question, you will demand a debate about it. The government, in effect, refuses to manage one area, but has not given up its responsibilities, and it does not give up its responsibilities. In its complaint, the Government's written objection, which is its opinion, is that it is strange, and we have indeed written in the proposal of this law that the Director of State Administration be appointed for an 8-year term. That's what we wanted to do with two things. First, to separate his function from any policy. That it is not connected to the political mandate at all, because we believe that the expertise of these jobs is too important for the director's mandate to be confused with the political mandate and we think that this is not good. And the second reason we've been running ourselves was that in four years and hardly in this area to do anything and it takes at least 8 years, according to our assessment, for a certain person to be called the director or however one such system is run and because of the very system itself, and because of the person who runs it. And in the end, you saw for yourself that we gave certain employees at the Administration, the State Department of Protection and Rescue so-called. BEN internship as it likes to be called popular, benified internship or exactly what the law calls it, an internship with extended duration. In the objection of the Government, it is said that it is done in... Which simply isn't true. [[You don't understand.]] Namely, a well-fused internship or lengthened internship is established by law, the government's regulation, which has at least two ministries, which are the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of the Interior, are prescribed which are the jobs for which so-called jobs are introduced. Ben's internship, we've put 12 here for 14, not 12 for 16, and that's what our bill says, it describes, it describes not what the jobs are for which it is needed. And finally, colleagues and fellow MPs, I ask that after the debate, although I say, I have no illusions to pass this law in the first reading, or to conclude that the law is adopted in the first reading. The theme is too important, and time is too short. I don't even ex-government, and I'm really sorry that this bill hasn't been passed. This Law is extremely important not only because of the fire but also because of the overall regulation in this area. This may be roof law, but it needs to be passed as soon as possible. Thank you very much. I'll look back later after the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-31-0.u9168	I thank Mr. Vresk for speaking on behalf of the motionary of the HSS Club. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Here you go, Mr. Jarnjak, on behalf of the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security. Here you go, Mr. Capricorn.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-31-0.u9169	Dear Madam President, colleagues and colleagues. The Committee on Internal Policy and National Security on the 7th session, held on 25 March 2004, discussed the proposal for a law on protection and rescue submitted to the president of the Croatian Parliament by the Association of Representatives of the HSS on 16 February 2004. In the opening statement, the proposaler's representative met the Committee members with the reasons why it is proposed to adopt protection, the Protection and Rescue Act. It states that today's civilization catastrophes require quick and effective action by the participants in the protection and rescue and their coordinated work and one precautionary action. The applicant therefore considers it necessary to regulate this area normably, i.e. to adopt the proposed law. The Committee for Discussion has had the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia which does not support the Proposal for this law because it considers that the proposed legal text does not cover and elaborate on all areas of public protection. It also highlights the shortcomings in the proposed establishment solution of emergency services, the appointment of the Director of the State Protection Administration and the lack of a more precise assessment of the financial resources necessary for the implementation of this law. In his presentation, the Government of the Republic of Croatia also supported the further explanation of the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and pointed out that the Government of the Republic of Croatia will soon refer to the text of the law which will thoroughly and systematically regulate the area of protection and rescue. After the debate was held, the Committee adopted the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and by majority of votes, 7 votes against, adopted, the adoption of this legislative proposal, 3 votes for acceptance and 1 abstention, the Croatian Assembly decided not to accept the proposal for a law on protection and rescue for the reasons set out in this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-31-0.u9170	I thank the president of the Committee. Other committees? There isn't. Thank you very much. We're moving on to a debate. The first to discuss clubs was Mr. Pero Kovacevic, on behalf of the HSP Club. Here you go, Mr. Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-31-0.u9171	Vice President, Mr. Assistant, colleagues and colleagues. The HSP Club will support the adoption in the first reading of the Proposal for a Law on Protection and Rescue for the following facts, as it also gives the Government enough time to prepare the final bill on the basis of this whole debate, and I hope that today it will be complete, which will be carried out in this House of Commons, because the situation in the field of structure, equipment and the activities of the protection and rescue system is particularly chaotic and catastrophic. We're free to say that at this point we don't have a system of protection and rescue. We have a system of protection and rescue only as a legal statement, as a definition of one area, and in the full sense of that word we do not have protection and rescue systems. Why is that? There's a lot of reasons. Do we have civil protection at this point? We don't have it. We only have civil protection on paper, we've seen the situation, no more civil protection units, no more general purpose units, no more special purpose, the equipment is catastrophic. We've seen the situation with the shelters themselves, shelters are abandoned instead of renting to keep it that way. We know that part is committed to the jurisdiction of cities and municipalities, which is good. So, on that plan, nothing was done. That's why what happened to us was what happened to the fires and any incidents where the protection and rescue system had to be used. We saw what our situation was like last year during the tourist season. We don't have equipment, our equipment's 20, 30 years old, fire trucks. That's what I'm talking about the better part, so professional fire departments. As far as Croatia is concerned, it has this truly great tradition of voluntary fire company and there is no situation. We know what's going on and we know what's going on. Unfortunately, they have bicycles and they have nothing else to go to the fire extinguisher. Furthermore, the situation we're in, we're using the military, the military is also normal, it's neither equipped nor equipped to take part in actions of protection and rescue. We know what our situation is with the Canadians, what is the situation of the unsolved status of the pilots involved in the management of the Canadians. In fact, we might have canaders this year, but we won't have pilots. So there are a really huge number of reasons to systematically move, to finally regulate this area and set up a real system of protection and rescue. The situation at present is unauthorized because we have in various situations when something, meaning, happens, whether it's a fire, whether it's an incident, whether it's an elemental accident, we don't have an organized force, so we don't have a state administration and we don't have the strength to immediately be used in protection and rescue actions and what happens is, let's say, a tanker with oil goes over, which we've had cases on Plitvice Lakes. You don't know who's doing what. The police come, they don't know what to do, instead of that system, the body, immediately calls, and automatically reacts, so it comes to resuscitating the terrain and removing it, the police come and the inspectors and everything in one place. This is the same situation in the field of protection of the Croatian Adriatic, so we also have many different entities, various competences, and we come up with this situation that in all these areas everyone cares about, and in fact no one cares. As far as access is concerned, we at the HSP Club are in favour of getting everything settled in one place under this law. So this part that is now contained in the bill itself. But we think that all areas should be codified in one place, so the chapter on protection for civil protection, the chapter on fire, and also further chapters on natural disasters and other situations. We now have a situation that in the event of elemental disasters, it is known that the obligation of all able citizens to participate in an action of protection and rescue is known. We don't have that system anymore. Look, when it was tourist seasons, people watch what's going on and worse at his house. I mean, these are really situations that are totally inadmissible. But as I must also point out, the government in its response says that in the first quarter of this year, which means today is the first quarter of this year, as far as I know on March 31st, that it will send a bill. So the government hasn't done it yet. But I'm afraid of this whole thing, from the government's response that the government doesn't have a vision either. Why do I say that? I say because of the fact that we saw in the last session when we were changing the structure of the state administration, when the state protection and rescue administration was established, which was the proposal of the Croatian Party's right already at the first session of this Parliament, which we are pleased that it was accepted, because of the very establishment of a part-round business. There was only one section of professional work, and there remained a very important part, which means leadership, so on. Command and command. Therefore, it is already evident that it was merely an attempt to find some possibility, and in particular remember the fact that, in this law, it is in our proposal that the Government gave it its amendments, it was not even said when they began the work of the State Administration for Protection and Rescue. So we, the HSP Club, are really warning the government that we can't deal with this area in this way, and that it has to be done in a hurry in two readings, and let's assume that the first reading is prepared to complete the system. We need to equip this system with modern equipment, so that it can be answered and that full prevention can be achieved, but in the meantime we need to regulate it properly, because God forbid the same fire story happens again this year in the tourist season last year. We know what the situation is about tourist activities, and in this way, we can cut off that branch that still holds this situation tied to the huge debt of the country related to the huge deficit and all the other variations, if we go to the tourist season, where will we be? So, this is a very serious topic, so setting up a real system of protection and rescue, but let's regulate it in a way that we really have a system of protection and rescue and to be effective, let's not argue about whether emergency aid should be on the number proposed, some other number, it's a completely insignificant thing, let's turn to what's important, we establish a system and therefore I plead to support the first reading, I say, happy that an emergency procedure has been taken down, because for an emergency procedure this law is not and we have a lot of objections. But now the possibility is that, on the basis of all this, the government will soon mean two, three months from now, with the final bill, but that it is already taking care of the measures so that it does not happen, or repeat, the situation with the fires on the Adriatic, which happened last year. Because, look, there's Easter's the situation moving, we see there's a fire now. I'm afraid we need to take measures, so this doesn't happen to us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-31-0.u9172	Thank you, Mr. Kovacevic. On behalf of the SDP Club, Mr Antun Peru. Here you go, Mr. Peru.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-31-0.u9173	Dear Madam Vice-President of the Parliament, Mr. Representative of the Croatian Government, colleagues and colleagues. I agree with the opening argument of my colleague Vrska, and we are aware at the SDP Club that it is good to discuss this law on the HSS initiative here today. However, we already have an indication of the government, and we are aware of the fact that the government's proposal is being prepared. I've even been able to see him. and today the amendments to this text are indeed missed and in this sense I welcome the procedure for this important service to be set up and that there will probably be an additional impulse to the Government, that as soon as possible, it will come out with its proposal. However, several basic things, whether or not before us, were proposed by the Law on Protection and Rescue, which was referred to in the parliamentary procedure by the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Peasant Party. The proposal was to pass the law by emergency procedure. Which is not clearly adopted and the proposal goes into the procedure into regular, first reading, because surely the Government will make its proposal. After the 4th session of the Croatian Parliament, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Construction and Diocular of Ministrys and State Administrations, which established the State Protection and Rescue Authority, should be adopted and the relevant Protection and Rescue Act should be adopted, which would regulate and regulate the area of protection and rescue in the Republic of Croatia as an area of special importance and interest. The Law on Protection and Rescue is a law which is essential for the Republic of Croatia and should be a law that unites all subjects of protection and rescue into a uniquely efficient and rational system. Since the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law establishing and part-rounding of Ministries and State Administrations, which amended the State Protection and Rescue Administration, was not adopted by a single amendment of opposition MPs, primarily by counterpart Valter Drandic, who primarily aimed at treating the Fire Organisation as a core from which a system of protection and rescue will develop, this is now worth accepting reality, the State Administration is set up and passed a law that will regulate this important matter as soon as possible. According to the latest information yesterday, there was also a meeting of the Firearms Community of Croatia, which as one of the important entities and in the future state administration supports the establishment of a state administration and the adoption of an appropriate law. I am convinced that until today, all of our services in the Republic of Croatia that are engaged in the protection and rescue of their tasks have carried out extremely responsibly, professionally and self-pronounced, both as services and as individuals of the dangers of their own lives, in order to provide assistance to those who need it. As a result, it is necessary to give recognition to these services and persons within the institutions, and the key deficiency in which both my colleague Vresk and his colleague Kovacevic fully agree with each other and with his colleague Kovacevic, is a lack of evidence, and it has been related in certain situations to the coordination between the entities and, accordingly, possible failures only as productive coordinated activities, not a lack of professional spirit, and, of course, to the lack of certain technical means which my colleague Kovacevic was talking about, and I do not want to repeat it. By establishing the State Administration for Protection and Rescue and by certainly bringing this, i.e. the relevant law because I know that this will not be passed must not be touched in the jurisdiction of the national authorities and other legal entities whose activity is under special laws or by international conventions signed by the Republic of Croatia and which are related to the prevention of protection and rescue. And that is why I would especially like to point out here, and as some kind of let me give a warning to the Government of the Republic of Croatia in making an appropriate law on protection and rescue. Here I primarily mean protection and rescue at sea. Because the Republic of Croatia as a maritime country has its own search and rescue service at sea well organized and I dare say that thanks to the high professionality and maritime spirit of our citizens, this service is also very effective despite the evident shortcomings in human, technical and material terms. As a result, I also asked for the adoption of the state budget and for the importance of this service to be a special item for search and rescue operations, however, the proposal did not go through with the will of the ruling size. Croatia is a signator of the 1979 International Convention on the Search and Rescue of the Sea and is in line with its international obligations arising from the convention and organised its search and rescue service at sea. Croatia is government based on Article 13. Law on port captains and adopted a national search and rescue plan at sea and set up a National Search and Rescue Centre at sea based in Rijeka. We at the SDP Club are at a standstill and we will especially focus on the need to organise the coast guard in the Republic of Croatia as soon as possible and not on coordination, on forming coordinations as is proposed with the proposal to reach such a conclusion in the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The services, thanks to the sense of responsibility and despite the shortcomings in terms of lack of personnel, technical equipment and lack of vessel, are still very successful in carrying out tasks. In addition to staff and vessels of the Ministry of Maritime Affairs, the funds of the MUP, the Croatian Army and especially our shipmen, fishermen, lighthouseists and all those living from the sea and sea are included. And indeed, our sailors never failed in situations where help was needed at sea. That's why I was talking about the need to allocate the last funds for this service. If there are shortages sometimes and there are, they are, I agree with the predecessors and the consequences, and I am convinced that they are the consequence of the interference of jurisdiction, poor coordination and attempts of individual entities to adopt a jurisdiction that does not belong to them under positive laws and these positive laws are also based on, signed international conventions. In this text, I also observe the recent media expansion of missing pedals in the part of Makarska that has inflicted damage and left a mark on the search and rescue service at sea, on some of my colleagues who have not had the opportunity to adequately respond. And it's also here, I'm convinced of that and the knowledge that I have, which is available to me, that it's also been a lack of coordination and an already said attempt to interfere with the jurisdiction of individual subjects. My colleagues and colleagues, why am I saying this here today? So I'm talking about it for the very reason that I am convinced that order should be put into the service of protection and rescue, that funds and personnel should be pooled, but I am also talking about the reason why I want to stress at first that there is no really going to be any interference in the responsibilities of the services that operate under special regulations and comply with the country's international obligations. That it is necessary today and here to say it because in the final bill it is worth thinking about this fact when it comes to the sea already in the beginning to clarify possible dilemmas if they even exist. How we are discussing today the proposal for the text of the Protection and Rescue Act, which was referred to in the procedure by the opposition party in this case of HSS and aware of the fact and knowledge that the Government has already given its power to demonstrate and that in the procedure of poor practice it will refer its proposal, mostly less prescribed law. I do not want to submit concrete proposals for the amendment of certain articles in the first reading on behalf of the club today, but we will make it clear when the time comes and in the form of amendments. In any case, we at the SDP Club support the initiative to pass the Protection and Rescue Act that the Republic of Croatia really needs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-31-0.u9174	I thank Mr. Perushko who spoke on behalf of the SDP Club. Now it is the turn of the HSS Club, Mr. Agent Ante Markov, please welcome Mr. Markov.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-31-0.u9175	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. A colleague, a colleague and a colleague. The proposal for a law on protection and rescue is a natural attempt to create a legal framework for the implementation of a decision on the establishment of a protection and rescue administration. Of course, this matter has been sought before and colleagues who were in the previous meeting remember that often during the debate on certain laws that have touched this matter, there have been often talks about the need for this matter to be resolved in full but clearly that they are touched and do not enter into those institutions that are good and very good for the general benefit and become primarily about the Croatian Fire Department, which has its place, which has its role, which in the new circumstances has found its role and which will, in fact, have its place under such or similar law and within the framework of the Protection and Rescue Authority. It is not only a legal reason for the passing of this law but also for the changed circumstances that are reflected in the fact of various elemental disasters, different disasters affecting both people and space, different forms of men, any space, different situations that the modern world has brought to man and nature. It is precisely these reasons for changing circumstances and new realities that suggest that it is very important, that this problem is important and that it is a problem of both man and nature, which means what is most important is solved by one law. Of course, the laws can be different, the views in the law can be treated differently, but I think the goal here is for all and the positions and the opposition to adopt one such or similar law. That this bill proposal by the HSS Club first and foremost directed itself to complete this void, initiate and, of course, it would be best for the Government to adopt its proposal for legislation in the second reading and that everything in the end and that is similar to us as representatives of the public to take what is good from one and the other and by the nature of the matter, we do what will serve the basic task of law, which is to be enforceable, to be effective and to be fair in the nature of our functioning. I believe that both the facts and those events that took place not only in the field of the summer tourist season at the time of the fire threat and the fiery verse but also in various other disasters, but also in our Adriatic means at sea what the colleague talked about is an opportunity to warn us that the coordination of the body of the state administration is often lacking, that often and a little waste of time is crucial and very important for removing the consequences of the elemental threat because the most effective means when it comes to fire is to put out as soon as possible as possible until it is small. And in order to do so, efficiency is necessary and it is necessary to have those efficiency and those instruments that will do so. And the existing disaster centre in Divulje as one body which will be clearly resolved by the regulation is one of the examples that can be used very well on the international agenda and within the framework of the law itself, from it the thesis on the leading role, the role of Croatia in terms of protecting and saving not only on our part of the Adriatic Sea but also on our aquatorium in order to create, in the context of such good initiatives, a truly international disaster centre, which will act by nature of its own matters, act in accordance with its capabilities, and make it all those institutions that have their place in such forms of action from the Croatian fire community, professional companies, future coast guard that clearly must represent the basis not only of protection and rescue but also the foundation of the regulatory seas, the foundation of all that has been missing at present time, because there was a lot of good but there were also the lack of results and the results of the disasters which were not according to the results. Therefore, the state has reasons, in particular, to reflect this matter as quickly as possible, as efficiently as possible and as high as possible within the framework of the legislative proposal if possible before the tourist season not so much as possible, but through the co-ordinated activities that the law itself will certainly specify to enable the authorities of the state administration to act more effectively in the upcoming tourist season, to know the unity of the system of command, to know the possibilities of action and that it can and must act preventively. I believe that the HSS Club has struck in its intention to encourage all of us in this Parliament as soon and as effectively as possible, and above all, the Government of the Republic of Croatia to propose its proposal to resolve this important matter, and I believe that we will still be able in some way, and this proposal of the law which the HSS has referred to in the procedure, of course, as well as my colleague, do not want to prejudge it, or do not believe that it will pass in the first reading, but I am sure that it will give that contribution which, in the nature of the matter, is also the first, which is to initiate the problem, to lead it to a solution, and whether it will be resolved either one of us in the HSS Club will be satisfied in any way to be resolved, and to be more effective and to be brought in time and to serve what it should be served. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-31-0.u9176	Thank you. We're going to an individual debate. Dear Representative Joseph Leco.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-31-0.u9177	Thank you very much, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. It is indisputable that Croatia needs one law on protection and rescue. The Republic of Croatia is an open country, I hope it will soon be a member of the European Union. We take part in the exchange with the world and want to participate as much as possible. We participate in procedures and anti-terrorism coalitions, we participate in rescue at sea, air and elsewhere, and we don't have a regulated system in a legitimate way. If this adds that globalisation also has positive and negative effects on everyone, in all parts of the world, then we cannot rule out that there may also be excesses or incidents in Croatia that require systematic from the level of the state, the functioning of the body on the elimination or reduction of the consequences of such incidents. It should be added that we are a tourist country, that even in this economic segment, we can and should make sure that any haemorrhaging, excise or excise happens, and again we do not have a local or regional system of protection and rescue. She got me to report for the hearing one more fact. The Republic of Croatia really has urgent medical protection that it can be proud of, which has proved to be very capable in the Homeland War, and we do not have a united action of emergency medical services at the state level. And imagine even worse. We have a medical service that covers the area so it can happen and it's not a fictional case on, that on the border of two cities, two municipalities or two areas that operate, the emergency medical service doesn't know who the event in practice belongs to. And if we need to intervene and more, we don't have a solution from which center is managed by such urgent medical interventions. And we've had cases like this in practice, unfortunately. So there's no delay. It is very fast to act in a legally systematic manner. In particular, I think new technologies, new communication opportunities can help at least in the area of emergency medical care to act regardless of whose area is closer, who can enter and help those who are unhappy more effectively. Another aspect I think is that we should consider when we are discussing the need for designing, legal design, and also the organisation of protection and rescue in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. It's all kinds of junk. All kinds of junk. Zagreb has already had several public alerts in the past year because under bridges, materials that could pollute the whole of Zagreb have been found. Do we know who can be informed that he intervenes in such a case? Well, if we know, it's not enough. They must know which number to turn to and warn that chemical material, poison or something like that can pollute larger, larger, larger spaces and more citizens. We have no regrets I repeat systematically solved this matter. That's why I called. I support my HSS colleagues for at least detecting a lack of system organisation for this area of protection and rescue. I hope that this law will not be passed in an emergency procedure, but that at the next session we can bring the revised law and solve at least a part of the problem, but that the tourist season did not mention the fires, I did not mention the fires, but it really bothers me that such goods as the wanted medical service cannot be established in a way that, at the state level, there is a dispatch centre one number and that it can be intervened in all parts of our country in an effective way to protect people, property and respect our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-31-0.u9178	Thank you. Dear Representative Jagoda Martic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-31-0.u9179	Dear President, dear colleagues and colleagues. I think we're all gonna go down if I say that the system for protecting and saving people and property is a significant link to the stability of the state and contributes to its reputation in the world and also a signal for safe investment in the economy. After all, protection and rescue is an unsustainable civilization of one society and a prerequisite for the international compatibility of the Republic of Croatia, which is also important if we bear in mind Croatia's desire to become a member of the European Union, and the Euro-Atlantic security military association. It is important that the Service of Protection and Rescue acts simply to unite all potentials of protection and rescue, to exploit all personnel and material potentials, and to achieve unique management at national, regional and local level. This is exactly what this proposal for a law that is before us is about, and the current state of affairs is an example of what kind of system should not be. Here's what we have in the Republic of Croatia today. Civil protection is inert and has no law of its own almost not to be invested in training and equipment, separated from the information centre there are no conditions for regular monitoring of the situation in the field. After the end of the Homeland War in which we all know they have made a great contribution to themselves, these centres are currently in the Ministry of Defence but without specific tasks. Firefighters are a significant link and potential but they cannot find their role in this problem. They have failed to build their fire structure to the end in the interests of volunteering, professionalism and state fire work through the Ministry of the Interior. The Mountain Rescue Service is the most prominent of all citizens' associations in protection and rescue actions, especially in the rescue in outside urban areas where many other structures cannot simply come. So far they have participated most in the protection and rescue actions as an intervention unit of civil protection. In many cases, their activity was a pronoun, and such activity inevitably requires partial professionalisation. The number of accidents outside urban areas is growing from year to year, as a result of the increase in the number of participants in transport and the change in the way of life and the movement of modern tourism towards more active facilities in open spaces. Let me just list some, like rafting, paragliding, dragondom, planning, and so on. Saving at sea is what the state has managed to do in the framework of regulations governing safety at sea. ALL activities were not coordinated so far from the unique centre of protection and rescue, and therefore the situation as well as the situation that we had last summer in front of Baška Voda, which is why because of the lack of coordination of the rescue action, did not escape the disaster that could have been a tragedy that es could have avoided. There is, of course, an emergency service operating under the Ministry of Health. There is no law on protection and rescue that feels the most about those who directly implement protection and rescue actions. All innumerable elements of the system as well as others who also work in the service of protection and rescue already have their own internal and internardon rules of the profession. Finally, they are already doing this actively, and they only need a common framework to bring it together. And co-operation to learn regular. With no time-free walk, this could encroach on joint procedures or harmonising and stalking simple procedures, synchronising training programmes and others. That way, the cost would not be lost in precious time. Why do I say this after the legislation has been passed and all available resources have been imported, which so far, as I have already cited, have been fragmented and operated through different ministries, costs will be reduced and efficiency will be increased unmistakably. This will avoid both human losses and material losses. In fact, so far, we have a lot of examples that precisely because of the lack of harmonisation of the notification of system failures happened to be delayed by interventions, that it is waiting a few hours to get a helicopter permission to take off, and that is how it happens, or that the injured person who is unhappy about unfair hospital driving remains either a permanent disability or even worse to perform and death. This law establishes, among other things, a single coordinated system, in which all those factors that have worked in different ways and in order to protect and rescue are involved. But they were torn apart, and they often overlapped in their own ingenuities, and they didn't know what it was in whose jurisdiction it was. It has also been established in action which is equally important, means from the state towards local communities, counties, cities and municipalities. The measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed, And what is and how particularly important is the regulation of the training and training system, because without knowledge and expertise, the effect of action will be significantly reduced. We can have no idea what quality and expensive equipment, but if we have people who aren't trained to handle it, then surely even the effects won't be what they're supposed to be. Of course, it would be much better if the law was passed before the budget was adopted, as the funds needed to implement this law could then be foreseen. But as we can see, the government has given a negative thought to that, I'm also saying the arguments that the government has given in rejecting this law are not very convincing nothing is so that amendments can't be fixed. But that's not surprising, because it's already somehow we're used to it being the government's usual practice of apriors rejecting everything that comes from the lines of opposition. But I'm only surprised that it didn't continue here and that practice is that, in parallel with this law, it is also the government's bill of law that would surely have been accepted. But I hope, as in that rejection, that the government is preparing its proposal, so I hope that it will be included in the 2005 budget. This law should be a platform on which to build other legal and sublegal acts, so a civil protection law, the Fire Protection Act, the Law on the Croatian Mountain Rescue Service, should be adopted. Bring regulations that would regulate training equipment, financing and other. In the end, the system of protection and rescue should be unique, and all the potentials of society should be united, and everyone should find their place and role in it. And that is why it is not good and it is unacceptable for me to prevent different lobbyings from passing the Protection and Rescue Act because certain structures were not satisfied with their role in the whole system. To be precise, they wanted to be the bearers of protection and rescue. The introduction of administrations and systems of protection and rescue is built in the long-term and planned use of the state's personnel and material capabilities, not in the interest of only one component. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-31-0.u9180	Thank you. And respected representative Marin Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-31-0.u9181	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. I want to support the proposal of this law and I want to say only a few sentences for those brave, selfless and bold people who have spent all these years, and I especially know that in Dalmatia and certainly in other parts of Croatia, saving other people's lives without saving themselves. Some of them, unfortunately, died, disabled, and never made it into the system. Unfortunately, neither the former government in which my party was, has passed an adequate law that would in a certain way, hence a law that would manage to frame complete protection and rescue into those regulations that would then allow people who did so without the law to do so, and often without the means and adequate equipment to enable them to become part of the whole system. My colleague Jagoda Martic mentioned the mountain rescue service and indeed in our area, here she is from Makarska, so it often happened on Biokova, those people were saving lives. Among them are some of the most prominent Croatian athletes who have thus threatened themselves. I would only mention the Dot of Christmas, and I really think we should support this law in the first reading, because if we rely on the government to bring it, I believe that there is, someone said that they saw this draft, my colleague Perushko, but I think if we support this law in the first reading, so if the government sends their proposal, if this will stimulate at some speed a bigger one, then we've already done a good job, so let me combine what's proposed in this law and what the government will regulate. I would just mention that the tourist season is coming, with it comes a number of amateurs, free climbers, climbers, climbers, boaters, swimmers, unswimmingers, paragliders, speleologists, amateur divers and other miracles, divers, divers. So it's really often they are, I'm only talking out of experience from the sea, in such situations that these people who rescue have to put themselves to death to get them out of these deadly situations. They're exactly why I called. Many of them had come to the Assembly before, lobbying with parliamentary representatives from all parties, praying that it would not happen as it happened in Slovenia that only when three rescuers were killed during the night would they quickly, urgently and without a problem pass a law that allowed them later to become part of the system, to have the means, to have the equipment and to have their most humane jobs that exist in the world at all, which is to save other people's lives by jeopardising their own lives, so that they are doing their job with as little risk as possible. That's why I'm asking you to accept this law in your first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-31-0.u9182	Thank you. Does the Proposer want a representative? Yeah. Dear Representative Josip Vresk has concluded his presentation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-31-0.u9183	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'll be very brief. My colleagues and fellow MPs already have much to say about this issue. In fact, this is an important thing, although it is difficult to say, I hope that the Parliament will reach a conclusion that supports this law in the first reading. Believe me, this law is more important than anyone who proposes it. We are unfortunately about the disaster of a high-risk country and we will not be able to change it, at least then change what we can suggest, and that is the regulation in this area. I'll tell you, there's been one remark that there's not enough firepower represented in this law. This law does not suppress fire either voluntarily or professionally. You can trust me with colleagues and colleagues just to improve, it does not prevent the development of fire. Unfortunately, in the work of the administration, given the climate and general conditions in our country, fire will be most represented because we are a country that has all the conditions, I say all the conditions for the creation and development of fires and we must centralisedly take care of what must not be centralised. I agree with you that this law must not be consumed by fire law but must be the subject of a special law, the firefighters deserve it, but not only by them, but also by all other services that are components of the protection and rescue, that is, the operation of this administration. Thank you for the discussion. I hope for understanding, and I ask that the importance of this topic be understood. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-31-0.u9184	I would like to thank my esteemed representative, Mr. Vresk. I'm closing the debate. Proposal for a Protection and Rescue Act, first reading, P.Z. No. 45. The proposer of the law is the Club of Representatives of the HSS. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal from the working bodies, I am voting on the next conclusion. The proposal for a Protection and Rescue Act proposed by the HSS Representatives Club is not accepted for the reasons set out in the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the reports of the working bodies. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? I find that with 76 votes in favour and 38 against the proposed conclusion. What? Dear Ljubica Lalić, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the HSS. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-31-0.u9186	Thank you, Mr. President. If we are going well on schedule, now should be a vote on the amendment and addition of the Pension Insurance Act, since we discussed it quite late last night. We haven't had time to carry out definitive consultations, please 10 minutes off, 5 minutes off.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-31-0.u9187	It's not my classmates' turn yet, so when she gets here, we'll give her a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-31-0.u9188	I'm just following the order, so I thought maybe that's it, that. But we're looking for a break before we vote on this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-31-0.u9189	I agree, when it's your turn, there'll be a break. It should now be a teaching point - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Pension Insurance Act, first reading, P.Z. No. 24, but there are no conditions for discussion and in agreement with the HSS Club as the legislator of the law, we'll leave it for tomorrow's debate. We go to the next point – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Defence Act – Proposers of MPs: Vlado Jukić and Pero Kovacevic, first reading, P.Z. No. 36. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply to the adoption of laws. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislative and Internal Policy and National Security. Reports we received at the session. The government of the Republic of Croatia delivered an opinion. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Representative Vlado Jukic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-31-0.u9191	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. This Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Defence Act concerns a proposal relating to two articles of the Defence Act. The Croatian party of rights club, and we de facto put this proposal on behalf of the club again, it is well known to you colleagues who were in the previous meeting of the Croatian Parliament, and to those who are not and because of them we will also tell more about our re-proposal of the law. In 2003, we tried to put into procedure a small amendment to the defence law that we tried to bring into the very text of the Defence Act that was passed in the last term. We wanted to point to one in our opinion the large legal gap that exists in the Law on Defence, which, in our opinion, poses in itself a threat to the national security of the Republic of Croatia. On this proposal of the law in the last term, we received a reply from the Government signed by the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia in the previous meeting of Mr Ivica Racan, which is about to explain that our bill does not provide for the Constitution, so it does not comply with the Constitution and what we are proposing as a new concept, the Constitution does not speak of it. When we discussed this bill, then we received support from our colleagues from the opposition in the last session, and today the authorities for our bill. Today, when we reiterated our bill, we received the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia in today's meeting with the signature of today's Prime Minister, Dr. Ivo Sanader. These two opinions, and they will be shown to you by counterpart Pero Kovacevic, do not differ except by signature. So there's a Racan on one, and on the other, Doctor Ivo Sanader. So, it is obvious that the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia has not changed, I say, except by the signature which amazes us and gives us the opportunity to comment on how it is possible that this proposal of the Law on Defence was not even read by anyone in the Government of the Republic of Croatia, because given the opinion that even in the text is equally, of course, only with the second signature, it clearly gives us the suspicion that no one has even looked at it but simply prescribed the opinion of the last Government, and I repeat, we have received the support of colleagues of the former opposition, and today the authorities for our bill, and this is also saying something about our political practice and the value of the arguments in Croatian politics. Because obviously, by changing the position and opposition completely, in this example, power will be proven, political thinking changed, and thus arguments go into another plan. In particular, we propose that in our Croatian state, in its legal system a legal gap is resolved which speaks of the use of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia. As you know, after constitutional changes where the provisions of the Constitution that speak about the powers of the President of the Republic and the relationship of the Government and the President have been amended, there has been a new Law on Defence, and we have already requested that this legal void be resolved. However, we did not find understanding with colleagues of the ruling coalition in the past. What we have seen as a legal void is the fact that in our Croatian country the shortest legal procedure possible to use the Armed Forces provides for the government's proposal, the co-signature of the Prime Minister and the President of the Republic. It is the shortest possible procedure possible in Croatian legislation, and it is the use of the Armed Forces. Of course, the Law on Defence in these other provisions lays down a procedure that provides for a session of the Parliament, a proposal from the Government, a co-signature of the Prime Minister and of the President of the Republic, even more extensive and wider procedure. The shortest possible procedure in Croatia is the signing of the Prime Minister, the President of the Republic on the proposal of the Government and after that by the President of the Republic. And we saw it as a legal void, given the fact that the Armed Forces, when it comes to the use of the Armed Forces, what is necessary is our duty and obligation as representatives and as persons representing the Croatian people, it is our duty to do whatever is possible in the legal procedure in order to predict all possible scenarios and any possible threats that can happen both to the Croatian people and to the Croatian state and to regulate them legally as accurately as possible. Therefore, we proposed supplementing Articles 104 and 110. The Defence Act that we have provided and proposed to add, exceptionally, paragraph 1 of Article 110, that the Supreme Commander may order the use of parts of the Armed Forces in order to prevent and eliminate the threat of a sudden armed attack on the Republic of Croatia. I stress, parts of the Armed Forces. In the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, I say, prescribed by the Government in the former assembly, the basis of the rejection of our proposal for a law is to the Constitution which does not, relating to the state of war and the situation directly... The Constitution does not provide for these terms, even though the Defence Act, is in force, for example, the Defence Act. knows the concept in Article 108 which says "and the procedures necessary to prevent and eliminate the danger of a sudden attack on the Republic of Croatia". [[You don't understand.]] So, the Law of Defence itself, the Law of Defence itself has a concept similar to our concept in its content, and that is one of the arguments that says that in the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia the argument that the Constitution does not foresee, and the Constitution does not foresee anything, so there are laws. We propose an amendment to the law, not to amend the Constitution. That there is no argument, the foundation of the argument of the Government of the Republic of Croatia both in the past and in the current convocation that our proposal cannot be accepted because it is not foreseen by the Constitution. In particular, in the case of a concrete majority of people and you colleagues, we only suggest that an emergency emergency manual be lifted because if a citizen called emergency medical aid and told on the other side of the wire that the manual should be passed, it is something similar to what we now have in the legal regulations. The Croatian State is a member of the Anti-Terrorist Coalition. Let us now aside from the fact that we have not yet succeeded politicians, let alone ordinary citizens feel from someone metrician in Croatia to explain to us what it is the Anti-Terrorist Coalition, which is its content, the content of this concept and everything behind it, but we can read from the media, from our documents and from the Parliament and the Government that it is a member, Croatia is a member of the Anti-Terror coalition. The issue of terrorism and the fight against terrorism is one of the most important issues in the world today when it comes to national security, and the Republic of Croatia wanted-not in that car. If it were brought to Croatia, God, 11 September or something like that, we would ask ourselves a question of what would happen if we knew that Croatian laws foresee the procedure of signing, the Government proposal and the subsignation of the Prime Minister and the President of the Republic. There would be no armed forces intervention, because that 11th September would have happened to us. We as promoters can, we deliberately didn't want to change the text, but we can, for example. in Article 2 of our proposal instead of the term "suddenly armed attack on the state", we can say as promoters that we are making an amendment and saying "terrorist attack". And then Mr. Secretary could say so the Constitution does not predict a terrorist attack. I hope he doesn't say that. Because a terrorist attack could happen to us. That the most responsible people in the country and on the Committee on Internal Policy and National Policy are speaking in a way that cannot happen to us, we cannot accept it in HSP. We are obliged to overlook everything in our power that could possibly happen, including the worst scenarios, and for what might happen, to overlook the measures because it is our responsibility. And that's what we propose to this bill. Without the intention of politicizing, without the intention of partying because we've been doing it in the past, we've been doing it both in this assembly and without the intention of obvious, given the procedure, to get some or some kind of political so-called. points. We ask and expect from you fellow MPs to understand the filling of a large legal void that does not exist in other countries. I hope the defence minister will come forward and tell us in which country in the world the use of the Armed Forces, parts of the Armed Forces, is regulated as it is in the Republic of Croatia. Nowhere. Nowhere, because the Armed Forces have several functions, and one of their basic functions is to serve citizens in the event of sudden events. We are well-regulated on the issue of eco-accessors, the issue of helping the civilian population, because according to the Defence Act then, partial mobilization and orders are given by the defence minister. We've settled this legally. And if we took the context of the government's opinion, that might come into question. But of course it is necessary to resolve that question and that question we have solved. But the use of the armed forces has not been resolved. Of course, this does not mean, if we logically think that land forces will need to be used, and that means infantry. When it comes to the use of armed forces, it is primarily thought of that part of the armed forces that represent the force of the Air Force and the Navy. Because infantry doesn't make sense or predict that it will need to be used, because we have special police, we have technical means for that kind of reaction. But for that kind of reaction to a field attack, where an event would be an essential Navy intervention, or the Air Force, we don't have a legal solution. First of all, the reaction in real time to our legal regulations is not possible, and then the question of possible serious consequences is raised because of this legal solution. Because if something in the system got stuck, and you believe it would be stuck, and I believe that my opinion is shared, and everyone who knows something or a little more about what the situation in the armed forces is, this legal solution could easily lead to paralysis, and not be the reaction that is realistically possible with the technical and human resources that the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia have, and that, after that, we, who are responsible and should have thought about it in advance, are asked why we have done nothing, after the terrible consequences have already arisen, as some other countries in the world have already come under the example. I repeat, we only suggest that the use of the armed forces should be lifted when it is called an ambulance. There is a possibility of a solution that the defence minister can do the same. There are other solutions. We here in our bill of law suggest that it be the President of the Republic, because it is in a state of war, otherwise by the position of the Constitutional Supreme Commander of the Armed Forces. And to come down into the frames, within the frameworks that are both other and most other countries in the world, where exactly what is called the person and the position and function that can pick up the phone and use the armed forces in the shortest real time possible. Thank you very much, and counterpart Kovacevic will come forward as a proposer with a legal part of the proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-31-0.u9192	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? The Legislative Committee. The Committee on Internal Policy and National Security? No, I don't. He wants a government official to take his word? Defence Minister Berislav Roncevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-31-0.u9193	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Normally, the defence minister as a representative of the government will not say that Croatia is not exposed to a terrorist attack if the terrorist attack is not explicitly listed in the constitution, as it would be both irresponsible and irresponsible. However, the Minister of Defence, on behalf of the Government, wants to say that the government does not support this bill on amendments and additions to the Law on Defence, because in its proposal, the Proposer proposes the introduction of two new states, threatening the threat of sudden armed aggression against the Republic of Croatia as an amendment, i.e. supplementing Article 104 and proposing an institute or a new state, the danger of a sudden armed attack on the state although I assume it is a matter of one condition. However, the Government of the Republic of Croatia considers that the existing Defence Act, as well as the Constitutional Provisions, is sufficiently clear in the event of these events. I refer to Article 100(2). The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, which states that in the event of direct threat, independence, unity and the existence of the state, it is one condition where these conditions are declared in the Law and the Constitution of the envisaged procedure, but also has a continuation of its text, so I quote "or when the authorities of the state are prevented from exercising their constitutional duties on a regular basis, the President of the Republic may, on a proposal from the Prime Minister and with his co-signature, adopt regulations with legal force". This part of the text of this Constitutional Law, Article, or paragraph, describes exactly how this situation is regulated by the sudden danger when it is assumed that the law and the constitution prevents the authorities from performing their constitutional duties regularly, then the President of the Republic not on a proposal from the Prime Minister, but on a proposal from the Prime Minister and, with the co-signation of the Prime Minister, may adopt regulations with legal force. Although this is not nomotechnically highlighted in the proposal to amend and supplement the law, it is clear from the reasons that the proposal's leading motives have raised the question of not regulating the state of absence of the President of the Republic. However, this is referred to in Article 96. The Constitution, where it clearly states that in the event of a shorter prevention due to the absence, sickness or use of the annual vacation, the President of the Republic can trust the President of the Croatian Parliament to replace it, means that this situation is arranged. And the Law on the Government of the Republic of Croatia has been arranged, and who replaces the Prime Minister in the event of his absence. I can say here that Croatia, which is ahead of further reform of its armed forces, will expect and require certain changes and the Defence Act. However, this proposal does not bring any better quality. All possible conditions are well covered and existing legal and constitutional regulations, and the Government does not support these proposed amendments and additions to the Defence Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-31-0.u9194	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Pero Kovacevic, just tell me to see that part, that the promoter. When the debate begins, please. Let me just open up the discussion. You know we had a situation yesterday, just to open up the debate and then when it comes first in the debate, then after that as a motionary. On behalf of the club debate. And on behalf of the HDZ Club, respected representative Krešimir Cosic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-31-0.u9195	Dear Mr. President, with the proposed law of the Alliance MPs Mr. Kovacevic and Jukic, it is proposed to regulate the issue of jurisdiction in the event of sudden aggression against the Republic of Croatia through appropriate amendments and additions to the defence law. It stands in the assessment of the situation, in the case of sudden armed aggression on the Republic of Croatia, no one is authorised to order the use of armed forces as a whole or in its individual parts, until the Croatian Parliament determines the state of immediate threat or war. Therefore, it continues in the assessment of the situation, in the event of sudden armed aggression against Croatia, no one can order the use of the armed forces or its individual parts until the meeting of the Croatian Parliament and determine the state of direct threat, and then the use of the armed forces is ordered by the Supreme Commander but, with the co-signation of the Prime Minister, the law does not provide for a procedure in the event of the absence of the President of the Republic or the President of the Republic of Croatia. In the assessment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia of that proposal and what the Minister of Defence has presented, it is clear that in the current Law on Defence and the Constitution, the procedure for how to react has been clearly established and in any case the Republic of Croatia cannot be found in a situation where the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia will not know how to organise. It's part of the story, the legal part. However, when it comes to such changes to one basic, important, I would say an important law such as the Defence Act, then some other general, political circumstances require changes to the law because of some hypothetical scenarios which unfortunately today, not unfortunately, but fortunately today are not a real reality. Today in the Republic of Croatia there is security, stability and peace, and we believe that it is also a feature of the entire area. Today to change in the Croatian Parliament the Defence Act because of the feeling that the Republic of Croatia is threatened by possible armed aggression, because it is assessed by its intelligence services I think it is not politically wise, it is not current, it is not acceptable. Certainly a special circumstance is also the situation in which it was located. Therefore, such hypothetical scenarios will, when properly amended by the Defence Act, exist objective and realistic needs relating to the accession of the Republic of Croatia to NATO and to some other requirements expressed towards the Ministry of Defence, the Republic of Croatia and the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia as a whole. We will need it, I would say very quickly, but also systematic regulation and harmonisation of national legislation as part of the approach to NATO. There are now certain specific requirements and reasons for not only the Law of Defence but also for some other laws to be changed in this regard. But I would say first and foremost through a well-organised procedure that will respect political circumstances, which will respect priorities and will not respond to the amendments to the Defence Act because of possible, I would say a little bit of probable hypothetical scenarios. For all these reasons, the HDZ Club used this form of the Defence Act to talk about sudden armed aggression and we saw that the promoter was changing some circumstances, linking it to terrorism, these are essentially different circumstances and types of threats. Therefore, this moment and in this form of the bill, the amendment of the law on the defence of the HDZ Club cannot be accepted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-31-0.u9196	On behalf of the promoter, Honored Representative Pero Kovacevic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-31-0.u9197	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues, here you can see that the government has given this answer to our proposal as has been given by the distinguished General Cosic it would be quite different... We don't plead to have this law passed today, we're pleading with this to launch a full debate and about the situation in the Armed Forces and the reconstruction of the Armed Forces and everything else. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And because of this, it was particularly symptomatic that I also told the Prime Minister himself that it was someone irresponsible either from the Ministry of Defence or from the government who gave the same opinion of the former government. And I can list here 10 simulations, 10 examples from which you will see that at some point there is no one to use the parts of the Armed Forces, like anti-aircraft or our military air force, we know what kind of border we have. And this response to the government, I have to say the same thing doesn't know the true state of things. There's Mr. Shakespeare knows 91. Luka Bebić as well as in what way and what was done. The defence system of each country must be so constructed and simulated that it can respond to the threat and amounting to 0.001%, we must agree and that is the most important. Because if we don't have what we need, then the defense system. Here, I will now give you an example where you will see that there is no one to order the use of the Armed Forces, we have information that something will happen and we need to react in a short period of time. Let's just take the next variant that I made on the Legislative Committee, which is next, let's say, that's to be careful, we need to simulate when doing the regulations, so it has to be answered, so that's what we're talking about. We have the next variant. For example, the Prime Minister is in Brussels today, Croatia is being admitted to NATO alliance with the fact that one of the conditions for us to send troops to Iraq, let's say hypothetically we speak, I'm not saying that that's how it's going to happen and he's getting ready, he's traveling to Croatia, right, the Parliament is here in session, and normally he's already having this part of the debate, so the government president would come to us and expose us to ratify the international treaty to enter the NATO Alliance, the President of the Parliament normally went to the airport, the Parliament is there, so the state authorities are working regularly, he went to the airport. President Mesic, he's not in the state, he's somewhere else, let's say you go, you can be there, so I'll tell you again that you won't do anything. I already have a variant when you're here. Here, I'll tell you that you're here if you want to. And now it's happening, let's say he went to India to the elephant orphanage because of the fact that he's with the Prime Minister our esteemed colleague, Slaven Letica, and he has a man reason, right? He's angry that the government did it to HDZ and the presidential election is under way, it's normal to hit him. And now there's a scenario going on, we know how Al'Qeida works, the Americans are surprised, let's not think there's any surprises, and they're well surprised, they're doing the next scenario, they're having a bedroom, they're stealing a submarine of the Black Sea fleet, we know that the situation in the Russian army, they will, in an hour and a half, they're going to enter Laura, and they're going to sink all our ships. The game is, in Belgrade, they stole three moments of 29 from them and they don't know who's doing what, which is possible, three moments of 29. The game of Dinamo-Hajduk... And they'll bomb. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] On the other hand, from Ljubljana, they can make, steal a regular plane and crash into the Parliament building. So the state authorities' situation is working regularly, it means everything. And we have, we have knowledge. to the Parliament because they want the top of the legislative power, right? [[Intruder: Stab into another building, not the Parliament.]] Here, let's say in the Ban Courts, he can go to the Ban Courts, he can, he can do it. A better version of the Ban Court, but it can. And now you need to react, we have all the information, we have... So we can beat point 29. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We have, we have a plane that, a plane, we have our ships, we know how far his submarine can destroy. So all we have to do is do it, watch American movies, do we all watch American movies, it's a variant, in American alpha 1 movies, you know what to do, alpha 2, there's almost no more Serbian planes in the air. Now, that's what we're warning you about. So the situation is gender, you can't tell me Mr. Minister that the bodies of the state authorities aren't, they're working. They work regularly, you can't tell the Parliament... 'Cause that's where we're sitting right now. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Everything happens on a regular basis. It happens all the time. We can stop it. And now in this variant if we go. Let's say even President Shakespeare who knows what the defense is he learns from the service and says let's immediately determine the immediate threat, so we've done a lot but we haven't done anything. We need Sanader to sign off with Mesic now. And this one and the other over there. So what would be wise for the right man? At least to say I can get a phone on the team, to consult, not to subscribe, right? By subsigning, you understand, it's a telephone version. So you know that fifth plane that was shot down in America. It's down to normal. Everything's going on, they're calling the president and they know what's going to be done. Let's go to the next version of what I'm warning you. Watch out. The same situation predicts that only then can mobilization be done with us. Let's say we have operational data and we here in the Assembly on time come to this variant that there are two, that comes a state of direct threat to independence and unity of the state, right? We're coming, but we're going to start working, so the defense system has to execute the mobilization. However, the Defence Act says that only when we declare the direct threat to the independence and unity of the Republic will mobilization take place. So do you know, Mr. Minister, what's the preparedness plan? What's the mobilization plan? The preparedness plan in our statement has a first, second and third degree. In America, they have it in colors. Here's General Cosic, he was there. And already in the first degree, the mobilization of the part in the armed forces is being carried out. You understand. It's that variant when we win, let's say the situation in Serbia happened when they killed the Prime Minister. All neighbouring countries don't know what's going to happen, they're rising to the first degree. They're rising to the second degree. That's what we're talking about. So we have a situation where he can't react. So you know what they call it in other countries. They call it extraordinary circumstances or state of emergency. We've had this before in the Defense Act, now we don't have the Defense Act. And on those things..... Don't fuck around, you know the situation. [[/The intruder doesn't understand.]] Therefore,... We're constructively offering, and now look at one thing here's the vice president, now I'm just going to tell you that our government doesn't know the situation. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Look, the government tells us in response that there is, uh, the government says like this, "there is a state of direct threat to independence, unity and survival of the Republic of Croatia." There is no such condition in the Constitution. There is no such condition in the Constitution. The Constitution states, in Article 17, the direct threat to the independence and unity of the state, and in Article 100, you have a situation of direct threat and independence and unity and the existence of the state. That's what we had in the former Constitution this condition. So now we don't have that condition. Therefore, at least when the answer is written read this part of the Constitution. Let's move on. The defense law doesn't speak to any of this, of these two states, but it introduces a new state that has no direct threat anywhere. And now it's being defended that it's a constitutional category. So are we lawyers here or what are we? So this is well-intentioned. That's the situation. The defense system must be such that it can always respond. So let's be serious about these situations. We don't plead, so this is the first reading. This, I can give you other examples of where you're going to see that this situation isn't like that, and what you're saying is, what do you think the president of the state would do if he went somewhere on the way to the power of President of Parliament Shakespeare to replace him? It should be written in accordance with Article 96. Right? There should be written authority when you talk to me about it. What do you think he'd get at this point, or did you get one authority that the president went to replace him as president of the state in accordance with Article 96? You're not. Show me that then pull this all back. So let's be serious. Did you get it? What does it say in there? What does it say in there? Let's be serious and plead like this. If you don't, we have a bill of defense, a new one, a whole one. Otherwise, if you'd start to analyze the hardworking Defense Act, then you'll see that you don't know what the order is, what the directive is, what this is, and therefore you can only vote for our bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-31-0.u9198	My colleague Kovacevic, I'm not allowed to comment, but he put it very vividly, so don't think one thing I have is a suggestion for a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, colleague Jukic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-31-0.u9199	Mr. President, I have an objection to you because you, as President of the Parliament, are obliged to make peace in the assembly, and it was not peace. I couldn't just hear a fellow Kovacevic from a fellow MP's marble, I beg you. .../Intruders don't understand. The speaker doesn't understand... [[... well, I'm not, I don't hear well...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-31-0.u9200	What? The replica on, it wouldn't work. You're the proposer. You can talk. Oh, yeah. Okay.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-31-0.u9201	My colleagues and colleagues, I'm very sad as a defender, and I've been a very sad advocate for eight years, laughing when it comes to such serious issues as the Defense Act. I am very sad and sorry that I could listen to laughter in the assembly when it comes to a possible terrorist attack on the Republic of Croatia. I would just remind you of us and those who, who, who may be funny, are sitting here, people who can testify if they want to come forward for the word that, we had a situation in our short history that the day before the planes flew and bombed here in front of the present Ban Courts, there was also laughter among the MPs and there were also general claims that there would be no war or aggression. I'm very sorry that one serious proposal is perceived in this way. We, we had no intention of making you laugh, but we intended to warn you of a big problem, the same laugh, believe me fellow colleagues and colleagues I heard with my ears from fellow representatives of foreign embassies, military representatives of foreign states who when we as members of the Committee read to them here our legal solution was just as smiling as you were. Believe me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-31-0.u9202	My colleague Jukic, I don't think anyone laughed at your proposals or your proposal, your club, or your solutions, I don't think so. It was a bit of a mood. Dear Representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-31-0.u9203	Mr. President-in-Office of the Parliament, gentlemen of the law, legislators of the Law, distinguished ministers, colleagues and colleagues. I fully understand the intensity of the HSP Club that I fully understand the intensity of the HSP Club to fill in this void. As I recall, I think the HSP Constitution has also warned about this inconsistency, perhaps inconsistency. And the HSP is probably right when it claims that no country has in one way or another solved the use of the armed forces. That is, the President of the Republic, as commander-in-chief, has the right to use armed forces without subsignation. The will of the Constitution was different when the Constitution was adopted. And I think she was rightly different. Not only to limit the power of the President of the Republic, but to prevent possible abuses. I'll only list some possible abuses. The law says in its article 100th direct threat, does not define the threat to what? He's talking about immediate threat. If we were to now give the President of the Republic authority to assess what this is a direct threat then imagine the situation, I think it was in 2000, a demonstration on the Split coast. The government is called a traitor. It is called upon to threaten the death of the President of the Republic and the Prime Minister to be eaten by black crows. So you attack most of the system's institutions. Let's imagine the situation of the President of the Republic sending an army to the protesters because he considers it to be a direct threat. We've had a gathering before in Ban Jelačić Square when they run 101 abolished concessions. When, as you wrote by the President of the Republic then abroad, he asked the Minister of Interior to intervene. So this guy said no. But let's think the President of the Republic says it's a direct threat. It's the military's way of dissipating it. These motives were managed by the constitutionist when he introduced the Institute of Supotis. It means preventing any possible abuse. And I really think that the opportunities in our country, given the events of 2000, are still such that this restriction is necessary. Less is the possibility of abuse if two people have to decide it than just one. On the view of the Government, I think Mr. Yukuqi that the set is quite right to say that it is wrong because he calls for Article 100(2) instead of referring to Article 99(4). A constitution that says. In the event of direct threat, independence, unity and survival, the President of the Republic may, with the co-signation of the Prime Minister, order the use of the armed forces even though no war situation has been declared. This is the situation you describe, when we have a peaceful state and when the President of the Republic orders the use of the armed forces with the undersigned prime minister. It is an item and it is an article of the Constitution that regulates the issue. A little something and this text of yours, if you'll excuse me, we have a few terms here. The Constitution therefore mentions the direct threat of independence, unity and the existence of the state. The law says there's no telling what the immediate threat is. It would be good for him to prescribe a constitutional provision. It would be good to know the danger of what, if it wasn't for the threat of the President of the Republic or foreordaining or not knowing who. And you're talking about the threatening danger of sudden armed aggression in one article and the other of a sudden armed attack. So now we have one whole mess of terms. Now look with the threat of sudden armed aggression and almost contradiction in action. Because on the one hand, we have a threatening threat, so it's one condition that's predictable because it's been threatening for a long time. And on the other hand, you have a sudden armed aggression and the word suddenly implies that something is happening without the hope that it will happen without the previous predictability that it will happen. So it's one illogicalness in this whole expression, so for these reasons, this was not an instruction in this way to accept. On the sudden armed attack, it's now the third, all of which should be harmonised in some way. But then we come back to the right question. I can understand, as I said, your intensity. Perhaps that void should be filled in somehow, perhaps we can conclude that society is mature enough not to fear the powers we would give to the President of the Republic. In the interest of protecting national interests. But I'm afraid we won't be able to do it by law. We should change the constitution. This lever is not long enough for us, it is not appropriate because it cannot legally change the Constitution that is so explicit about the use of armed forces. Therefore, with all the understanding of your wishes to accept this Law, it would mean knowingly to accept the legal text that is contrary. Or it is contrary and it would be contrary to the Constitution because the Constitution in its two articles decidedly says that armed forces can be used. So I think you've raised an important question. It certainly needs to be discussed, but I think the instrument you reached out to is unfortunately insufficient and inappropriately the size of the problem both at the end and on these constitutional fences, which we can't skip as if they weren't there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-31-0.u9204	Thank you very much. Defence Minister Berislav Roncevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-31-0.u9205	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. I may not have heard the best part of Mr Kovacevic's exposure due to a cheerful atmosphere. But if I heard correctly what he said, then I want to say he's wrong. Since the conditions of direct endangerment and the state of war are clearly defined by the defence law in Article 3(1)(6) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The law defines the state of direct threat. And point 7. defines the condition of war against it does not stand your claim if you say it I allow it not to have heard you correctly. And to Mr. Stazic, the answer is why the government did not refer to Article 99. The Constitution. Because he overesaws the declared conditions of direct war danger and this is the basis of Article 6 of the Law on Defence of the jurisdiction of the Croatian Parliament. The Government therefore called for the Law, Article 100, which allows the President of the Republic to be able to work regularly and make its decisions, together with the sub-signation of the Prime Minister of the Regulation with legal force, in the event of a situation where the authorities of the State are not able to work regularly. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. For this reason, not Article 99, but Article 100. The constitution, and that's why it's the government's argument. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-31-0.u9206	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations by the esteemed representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-31-0.u9207	Well, I mean, just for the sake of clarity. Article 99(4) speaks of the use of armed forces even though no war situation has been declared. So that's what the article of the law reads. So even though it wasn't declared. If not declared, it means that it is a regular peacetime state. And that's just a classic example of what gentlemen are referring to.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-31-0.u9208	Dear Representative Niko Rebic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-31-0.u9209	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Before us is the proposal to amend and supplement the defence law, in the section relating to the addition of Articles 104, 110, which discusses mobilization, or the use of armed forces. The applicants consider that there are legal gaps in the law and that there is no authority to mobilise armed forces or certain parts of it. I suppose the promoter made it clear that it was the same condition only defined it differently. In the case of the Akona for defence, the situation known to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia was the state of war and the direct threat to independence, unity and survival of the Republic of Croatia. These two states are subject to the content of Article 3 of the Defence Act, so that the state of direct threat to the situation of the security environment of the Republic of Croatia in which there are obvious indicators of direct operational preparations of other States for the taking of proceedings and activities aimed at breach of sovereignty and independence and the situation in the State which, because of their armed terrorist or other national activities, are being challenged by independence or by the state which, because of their armed terrorist or other national activity, is being challenged by the independence or integrity of the Republic of Croatia. I believe that the above definition contains in itself the definition and threatening dangers of sudden armed aggression against the Republic of Croatia and there is no need to define the conditions proposed by the promoters, as it would be really difficult to define, or impossible to distinguish. It is also important to note that the Republic of Croatia has a security system and in the security environment in which the Republic of Croatia finds it almost impossible to imagine a sudden armed attack that could not be envisaged. It is true that the state of war and the state of immediate threat are determined by the Croatian Parliament on the proposal of the President of the Republic, with the signing of the Prime Minister. However, in Article 100(2) of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia knows the situation where the authorities are prevented from exercising their constitutional duties regularly. The President of the Republic may, at the proposal of the Prime Minister and with its co-signature, adopt regulations with legal force. One of the regulations can certainly be to mobilise the Armed Forces, or parts thereof. But the proposings continue to ask the question of the absence of the president of the Republic of Croatia or of the president of the Government of the Republic of Croatia outside the country at the moment of a sudden armed attack. I believe that the absence of the President of the Republic has been resolved by Article 96. The constitution that says, "In the event of a short impediment due to the absence of the President of the Republic, he can trust the President of the Croatian Parliament to replace him." As far as the Prime Minister is concerned, in accordance with the Law on the Government of the Republic of Croatia, he may leave it to be replaced by one of the Deputy Prime Ministers. And finally, I would like to say that the proposings themselves have disavowed their proposal to the Law on Defence by giving up the term of sudden armed aggression on Croatia. Now they're formulating it into a sudden terrorist coup and so on. and that's something else entirely, it's not really about mobilization and general threat, it's about prevention that's only effective in that, and then it's about the functioning of secret services, special forces, actually the question of how the system that already exists in the Department of Defence and the Ministry of Defense segments works. Therefore, despite a good intention to adopt such a proposal of the Defence Act, I think it would, in the end, be inconclusive for this House and therefore not get my support.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-31-0.u9210	The debate following the reports has been concluded. I'd like to ask the proposer's representative to give a final review.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-31-0.u9211	Before the final part, I must say first, Mr. Niko, we were at a meeting of the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security yesterday, we saw what is the situation in the security services that there is no coordination, conclusions we have reached, don't please read what is in the government's report when we saw for ourselves that the situation doesn't work, that a lot of things have to be fixed so that this situation works and don't read what the Government wrote. I've said nicely that these many things that are written don't stand and we just, the difference between you and me don't tell me. This is about one diction. That means it can be terrorist. So this is about a surprise armed attack. It could be a terrorist act, it could be any other way, an act, but it's an act where you have to solve the issue of using a part of the army. So we don't live in the Middle Ages anymore, we know how the technique and everything else is developed. Well, there may be one variant that someone wants to throw chemical poisons, that that plane needs to be crashed. Let's not live in an illusion. There are various situations. That you put in the Constitution who did it, the electronic signature, could have gotten rid of it, but when you were doing the Constitution, you made that part. Okay. I agree, but it's not the same situation. I've already said once that in other states in the defense system they're called extraordinary circumstances, an emergency whatever you want. And Mr. Minister, I've said nicely how the Constitution uses these two states and yes, and the Defense Act uses the notion of direct threat you understand. That's not in the Constitution, that's what I was talking about. It's that failure he doesn't have in the Constitution. Therefore, the situation is quite clear. The defence system of each country must be such as to respond to any threat. We, therefore, taxpayers are normally financed from taxes and defenses and everything else, and let's be serious about these situations in things like national security, the functioning of the rule of law, other things we have to be unique, we have to solve this problem. We can't leave that problem unsolved, we know what kind of situation can happen, it happens in the world. We know the variant that parts of Al'Qida's media have gone from Zenica to Spain, so let's be aware of the real situation. We have to, we say these are variants where they have to react immediately, and we can't show any confidence in the Prime Minister or the President of the State, they're legally elected, they've sworn an oath and there's no more of our government, your government. The government is the Republic of Croatia, the president of the Republic of Croatia, is that how the constitutional people were determined in the elections. But let's be aware of the situation, let's not stick to what the government said when we're drunk. The situation is like this, no one can answer me in a variety of different ways how they'll react. She can't react, and only then comes if something like that happens, a situation that has consequences for not saying what the consequences can be. Therefore, we must be aware of both seriously and in accordance with this awareness and seriousness of the club HSP suggests a conclusion to this High House, which is to oblige the Government of the Republic of Croatia to rush, and no later than 60 days, submit to the Croatian Assembly an annual report on the preparedness of the defence system, the implementation of the human resources policy and... in the Armed Forces, a report on the implementation of the defence plan of the Republic of Croatia and the implementation of defence preparations. [[You don't understand.]] This is the obligation of the Government to comply with the provisions of Article 8(4). ... Article 6(2), second subparagraph, 4 and 8. Defense laws. [[You don't understand.]] Let's face it, we don't have a defense plan anymore. The defense plan has been the last since 91. We don't have a plan to use the Armed Forces. Is that clear to you what kind of situation he's in, and it's said to be a reconstruction of the army? What kind of military reconstruction? We don't have anything. What are we talking about? Let's be aware and responsible for why we've been elected here. So, as well as any, we do not plead that these solutions in this statement enter, but be aware and responsible we must have a defence system that will be in function of protection. That's what matters to us. We must have our constitutional role and the task to perform, not that anyone has not read it in the government as it is said, that is, what the Ministry of Defence and the former team has done, the same answer they have done before, they are thus reluctant to justify their own. Thus, the situation is not so simple. I can tell you a lot of examples, but vote by conscience, not by party path. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-31-0.u9212	Correction of the incorrect allegation by the respected representative Niko Rebic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-31-0.u9213	It's not really my intention to sharpen this debate, it's actually to change, I mean it's simply not true that we need to change this law, the Law of Defence so that we can use some terrorist groups or Al'Qide, or I don't know what it's all about. Because we have to build it through our system at the Department of Defense, and besides, I think this House is making too many laws and too many laws and we're too much to change the laws and we should actually pass a law on not changing the law for at least two years, to finally learn something in those laws.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-31-0.u9214	Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Željko Krapljan.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-31-0.u9215	Dear Mr. President, I'm correcting Mr. Kovacevic's guilty allegations. It is not true that Croatian defence forces are not ready and that they cannot respond to the challenge because it would be a demeaning of the Croatian defence forces. By the elite guard units that we have, next to the reserve assembly that is ready and not to say at any time and at any given time can carry out its tasks, next to the Croatian Air Force, the Croatian Navy cannot accept such a fact and I responsibly argue that it is totally in error.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-31-0.u9216	Proposer, Mr. Representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-31-0.u9217	Mr. Representative, I didn't say the defense forces weren't ready. I said we don't have a defense plan. Plan... What are you talking about to me? [[You don't understand.]] I didn't say they weren't ready. That's why we're here to make that whole run.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-31-0.u9218	Thank you very much. I'm concluding a debate on this agenda point. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Defence, First Reading, P.Z. No. 36. Lawmakers are representatives Vlado Jukic and Pero Kovacevic. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal from the working bodies, I am voting on the next conclusion. The draft law amending and supplementing the Defence Act, proposed by representatives Vlado Jukic and Pero Kovacevic, is not adopted for the reasons set out in the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the reports of the working bodies. Who's in favor of this conclusion? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? I find that with 81 votes for, against 20 and 7 abstentions, the said conclusion is made. In accordance with the proposal of the HSP Representatives Club, I am voting on the next conclusion. The Government of the Republic of Croatia undertakes to submit to the Croatian Assembly in a hurry and no later than 60 days. One, an annual report on the readiness of the defence system, the implementation of human resources policy and the overall state of the armed forces. Second, a report on the implementation of the plan of defence of the Republic of Croatia and the implementation of defence preparations. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? I find it unanimous with 112 votes for the proposed conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-31-0.u9221	Dear President Shakespeare, colleagues and fellow MPs. I even feared it would come late, and I didn't work well at night when the wise... What? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So I'm going to make this very important declaration to me and suggest that I explain it to you with a little digression that I think is very important to the very intention of the Declaration that we have proposed. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] In fact, many of you, my friends and journalists, have asked me why I didn't react last week to the controversy of our esteemed President Shakespeare, where he referred me if I wasn't satisfied or as he said, if I wasn't satisfied to meet myself in another way. I didn't do it for pedagogical reasons because we have to get used to tolerance, deal with different moods, different opinions, and in its polemic leap there's nothing that would be forbidden, that is, by the Rules of Procedure of this High House. So it wasn't even a hate speech, it wasn't even an intolerant speech and it wasn't an offensive speech. It was some kind of Infantile Vengeance on the Mah, and this is the situation that happens to each and every one of us and every one of you...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-31-0.u9222	A fellow Flyer.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-31-0.u9223	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-31-0.u9224	I'll interrupt you in a moment. I ask you not to pollute in your presentation, and every time, this is the third time that you in a stable way with the President of the Croatian Parliament, who I am at the moment, are making your remarks, you represent your valuable courts. Last time and last time, and you apologized to me for the first time in a way that you have repeated what is the case of a criminal case against you two, so you have expressed your regret, you apologized and repeated what you are, for which the court is being held between us. After that, in my absence, you chose to say that someone called you and that some representative here looked, and you mentioned that leader from that TV show, Jaran, and you said "and that's not the President of the Parliament". I'm really sorry that I'm the last time you brought my one interpretation of my quote of an interview on the topical morning, calling it a morbid one, and again you led me into the controversy. I was wrong to give myself an unnecessary, uncontrollable vent and to say those words about it, if you're not satisfied to settle otherwise. But I'm asking you now not to pollute again and not to take me as chairman of this Declaration. You're talking again about my infancy.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-31-0.u9225	I didn't, if I didn't use the word "outfall."
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-31-0.u9226	I listened very carefully, I beg you...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-31-0.u9227	There's a phonogram.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-31-0.u9228	... you're talking about the Declaration, about the proposals in the Declaration, about all the reasons, but don't go to the demeaning and insulting of the chairman, no matter who he is. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-31-0.u9229	Dear President Shakespeare, I have no idea that I'm disrespecting anyone. If you're asking me about this little depression about Jajan, it wasn't about you at all, it was about the former Minister of Pancic. I don't even know how you figured out that I would deal with your person, it was one convenient and post-nightly remark. Please, allow me, if I can say something in ten minutes because it is about being alone these Declarations of free expressions of opinion, views and beliefs in this House. If you won't let me...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-31-0.u9230	Yes, I allow you, but don't take me for an example or...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-31-0.u9231	May I mention, do I, in fact, what I, I don't know what you're suggesting?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-31-0.u9232	I want to tell you what every chairman will tell every MP that you stick to the general rules of conduct in relations between the MP and the chairman and that you do not disrespect or insult the chairman.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-31-0.u9233	Make sure that never happens. So my civic education and my professor's profession and manner of public communication are such that I will never offend anyone. I just need to explain what this is about. I just said that in your statement it was one step at a time, I didn't even use the term you attributed to me and that's what happens to each of us, in our families. When we get one piece of news that's embarrassing, but certainly that bringing up one of the news in this High House that concerned one of your interviews, I'm not going to repeat those words at all now, has led you to an unpleasant situation. But this situation is not my fault personally. I don't even blame you, who knows what the context of that conversation was. The man said something publicly, and what you said was very embarrassing. Therefore, that inconvenience has resulted in one of your steps at a time that you may be assessing or others rated as rude, but I didn't evaluate it that way. Because I'm generally offended by opportunities and feelings of my own guilt, not what people think of me. You've generally brought me into a situation where I'm going to have to talk a little bit different about this declaration. Namely, this declaration, or proposed in the best possible way. In order to expand the level of tolerance, the notion of tolerance is confusing because it acts as persuasive, as well as all foreigners in Croatian, the notion of tolerance is much more pleasant, the correct term and it sets out, among other things, both your and my and our colleagues, the ability to submit different opinions, different worlds, different professional beliefs, different professional prejudices, and that through this joint debate we try to penetrate according to decisions and laws that are in favour of the common good. This proposed declaration did not have much debate or voting luck on either the parent committee. It was voted against by representatives, or members of the HDZ Committee. However, they were in direct favor of this declaration as I recall, in fact no one had anything against the contents of the declaration. By the logic of the party... they were against the declaration, which I can understand. Two members of the committee who had politically discriminatory socialised in the time of the verbal delinquency and who were carrying with them constant problems or trauma and early socialization were also against the declaration. For the declaration he was a professor of the distinguished and dean of the Zagreb Faculty, Professor Davor Krapac, who in his discussion pointed to the objective subsidisation of Article 75. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, which regulates the parliamentary immunity of members of this high and member of this high house, has only proposed to delete the concept freely from the title of the declaration, as it is assumed. The bodies of the world’s supreme legislative authority, mostly referred to as the concepts of those parts, were derived from three verbs, from verbs to gather, think or think and talk. Mostly in Slavic nations and states, such as the Parliament, the Parliament, the Assembly, the assemblies, the fairs, the concepts that relate to the concept of gatherings, because these peoples were hard to find in history and opportunities to gather together, to get together in a literal sense... so that they could get together in an adequate way, have enough space, freedom to express their beliefs and opinions. There is something, the authorities of the Supreme Authority who make their name out of the opinion and most of the Supreme Authorities carry out the name of their pronunciation. and that is why it is very important that the system of speech or freedom of speech is extended in such a assembly. As for the very speech in parliaments, each of us who has the idea of ourselves as a relatively good speaker, I would suggest a pedagogical measure, which each of us can easily make, to take his own phonogram, so he will see that he is a disastrous speaker, including me, and I must not mention the President of the Parliament. Namely, and a great friend of the Croatian people, Alan Fingel... in his book published in Croatian, ingratitude, begins this book with a small escursion from rhetorical modesty. He says that for the first time in his life he tried to escape a very dramatic and difficult act of torment with his own letter and agreed to write a book saying. And when he read the transcript of his own speech, he said he strongly ruled against him. That is why, in modern societies, especially in the televised transmissions of parliamentary debates, and it is good that this debate is not television, there is a large part of non-verbal speech, which can only be understood if you are present at sessions, otherwise very... saying, if I may, since my limits of speech in this presentation are quite substantially limited, I will try to improvise and I will perform a very modest sketch of the possible discriminatory strategies that we are facing in this House. The first of these discriminatory strategies could be called hyperpolymic dialectic-marksist discourse practiced by many senior SDP representatives and members of other parties who once belonged to the politburo. Another strategy could be called a conspiratory dissent, which is either based or can be found in all parties among representatives who have been subject to either political persecution or incarceration or immigration. There is a ten-time folk discourse, which is based on rhetorical pranks and farts, however, in the Assembly more than I can see. There is a scientific educational discourse, which is practiced by professional researchers, scientists, professors, professor Josipovic, professor Banac, Tadic, Zlatko Kramarić, Ljubo Jurčić and many others. There is a medical and experienced diagnostic treatment discourse in this House that has as much as Marko told me, a 10- or more doctor who has one specific view of the world, that should be talked about once. There is a healthy rational experience discourse, where the best example is Mr. Damir Cain. There is a pathetic patijan discourse, a large number of MPs in different parties. There is one respectable experience political discourse, the best representatives of it are Zlatko Tomcic, Ante Djapic, Ivica Racan and others. And there's a quasi civil discourse, because it might seem offensive, I won't mention it. and disappeared from our discourse, a mere tribune discourse, the best of which was once the late father of the former minister. And because it is so rich, this discriminatory practice should be nurtured. And as for direct causes, motives and the purpose of this declaration, I will try to illustrate it only with the results of one research. Two years ago, a large survey conducted by Gallup in 47 countries was conducted on a large sample of 34 thousand respondents on the reputation of large state and social institutions. Unfortunately, the technology of this House is such that I had to and in general my technical work opportunities are very modest, I returned to the Middle Ages, because there is no modern technology, these are the results of research that shows that the most prominent institution in all 46 countries is an army, and then NGOs, education systems, United Nations, religious institutions, police, health, then government, media, trade unions, World Bank, judiciary, global companies, large national companies and the least respected institution are Parliament. It's not an accident at all. Among parliaments, that is, second, such primitive technology, the least prominent are parliaments in the Middle East and Latin America, then Eastern and Central Europe, Asia, Africa, the European Union, Europe without the European Union and are the most prominent in North America. To comfort ourselves a little, but that comfort should be found with a steady dose of goodwill to adopt such a declaration. Of all the new democracies, the most prominent Croatian Parliament. So Croatia is first, Bulgaria is behind it, then Belarus, then the Czech Republic, then Moldova, Poland, Serbia-Montenegro, Hungary, Romania, Estonia, Lithuania, Slovakia, Latvia and the least respected Parliament has Russia. It is because of these circumstances that we in HSP have tried to propose one declaration that is trying since you have all won I will not repeat its contents and I am sorry the President of the Parliament has made it impossible for me to express an introductory digression that would be useful to most, and also to him personally. I'll say, two are, they're basic two orientations and two basic goals are those declarations. The first is to expand freedom of speech and increase tolerance. Because there were plenty of opportunities when some awkward, unusual metaphors of a mere saying, scientific sayings interpreted here as offensive I don't know about the government, for some member of the Croatian Parliament which is not good at all. It is also a second purpose and to increase the responsibility for a publicly spoken word. Especially for people who have no chance of defending themselves in this House. For ordinary citizens, for that reason, and here I return to Professor Krapco's discussion on the parent board, because it is really Article 75. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia under the norm and practical parliamentary immunity protects us practically from all kinds of possible judicial persecution and every type of responsibility for all practically what we can say in this Parliament and all that we can say in public and can potentially be connected to our work in Parlement. I'm going to conclude this exhibition with another expression of regret that the President of the Parliament couldn't, he wouldn't let me say what I wanted to say about the anxiety, the uncertainty and the feeling of fear that arises among people when they run out of arguments. And it's trying to turn it into some kind of athok, or I've called it Infatal Vengeance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-31-0.u9234	Yeah. On behalf of the Representatives' Club, I hope the committees have no intention, the committee's rapporteurs. On behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, the respected representative, Ingrid Antičević. - Marinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-31-0.u9235	Thank you, Mr. President, dear fellow MPs, fellow MPs. I think this is an opportunity for us at the SDP Club to discuss the proposal for a declaration of free speech in the Croatian Assembly by the HSP Club a little bit about the work of the Parliament itself, because our work is just speech. A speech in the Parliament, working in the Parliament, both in his bodies and in his plenary session. But in order for us to speak at all about free speech must be respected, or respected, a basic assumption. And the basic assumption of freedom of speech in Parliament is that Parliament is meeting, to provide an opportunity at all to speak. So, to meet regularly, to be active, and not even to wait for legislative proposals by the government that still do not arrive as it would be expected, and to what we are ultimately and compulsory in further adapting our legislative, regulatory standards to the European Union. We were already at the beginning of this term a few witnesses that the government somehow did not feel as if the Parliament were a loving terrain and then it was an occasion with the Parliament to object to topics which are of general interest to the Croatian public and not waiting for legal proposals from the government. After all, the opposition was quite active and there were elements to discuss these legal proposals. The same on our constituency bodies. On committees that need to have one greater independence. And that makes it seem like an initiative. And it seems to me that freedom of mind at all, freedom of speech, is something that everyone who has a need, or freedom, should be interested in is free to speak. And even independent witnesses to it are often exaggerated party disciplines. What happens in a particular party, so they were different interviews, we all know, here we had a follow-up if it's true, if the media and passed it the way a particular party is run, whether it's an iron hand, and so, that's something that we'd say from the beginning that it's actually the inner thing of a political party, but it's not like that. Because then it's being re-experienced into the entire democratic world. There can't be no Democrats in the house and a Democrats out there. So we need to talk about these questions here. Parliament is a place, a decisive place where it happens precisely because of the adoption of social change laws. But from there it follows and vice versa that Parliament is not working or working actively in this regard to which it can retain them or be the final part of a certain progress. I think the biggest credit to the former government is for democratisation the country. The work that has become in Parliament, you'll be moaning at your club later, which demorated the country. which is right in the Croatian Parliament, even when ruling was the most harsh attack on some of the topics that are now shaking Croatia and that are really not pleasant for Croatia and that do not come at all on the agenda. [[/Intruder: Please, ladies, let's not yawn.]] But at that time exactly similar currentity, of course in a very mild form, was heard in this House the words of hatred and intolerance to which it did not correspond. And it's a good thing it's not. And that's why it seems to me to be one of the gains that we might have to endure to enjoy more. And that is why the merit, not only of merit but also of commitment and especially of trying to make sure that the degree of democratisation achieved by the country and the development of parliamentaryism is not diminished, but rather of improving it. There is certainly also the responsibility of the opposition because there are no rights resolved. They need to be kept on watch, and they are constantly in danger but ultimately they belong only to those who fight for them. Paramentarism and the development of parliamentaryism that I only understand this topic as we in the SDP, the SDP Club understand, is the guarantee that absolutely preserves democracy from totalitarianism and freedom from depravity. I think these questions really need to be spoken out in the open and without any. I'm saying there have been some situations that have been caused by our parliamentary representatives, but not just with the MPs, but with one mishap in public, and that has caused a serious concern for us as well. It is our job here to raise the integrity of Parliament, Parliament, and everyone in it is invited to do so, not to reduce it and humiliate it. That's why it serves parliamentary immunity. Immunity is precisely that right as a guarantee that he will not be a parliamentary representative distracted in the freedom of his expression. But I would disagree with those who say that he is absolutely free to say whatever he wants and how he wills to insult, slander, defamation, and ultimately humiliate his home. It is the responsibility of the public word, but in the end, that freedom of speech itself means the answer, and as any freedom above all does not mean anything because it seems to me the essence of freedom is in responsibility. So the one who dares only uses freedom of speech to slander, to speak even of some legal proposals, and we are obliged to bring them rationally, to make such suggestions that are expendable. And that responsibility lies because just using it against the law seems to be abuse of law, and abuse of law is a negativity of law. In this regard, it seems to me that the greatest role and great responsibility of the first among the same ones as the Rules of Procedure and the President, or the Chairman. His is big and he doesn't have any special rights. It is a great honor and therefore his conduct is ultimately being followed by parliamentary representatives in particular opposition, but also by the public very critically assesses whether he is just and just. Not just to his club, but to everyone. In this lies I mean his and his personal reputation, but also the reputation of the whole Parliament. But also special sanctions given to the president, or chair, that he may recognize and combat abuse especially when spoken in hate, intolerance, exclusion. Those are forbidden speeches. And they have nothing to do with not only freedom of speech but with no freedom of any kind. So what I think is very important here to say is that this democratic political system is not only important in a large and mass participation in political decisions but also politically responsible decisions. This is certainly also a major role for the public who in some way also politically socialises our public and therefore raises great concerns about whether what is done in Parliament will reach the public, to the necessary measures. At the end of the day, citizens know who represents what, what kind of commitment there is, or why who advocates being freely elected in the elections. Because if there is no necessary information, then neither his, that mere freedom of choice is a right of freedom because it is not determined on the basis of full insight into this, in fact, or in a situation specific to certain parties or advocates who are independent, who represent certain ideas and why they specifically advocate and why they fight. Therefore, Parliament is not a place as it is, at least we had a chance to read in the media, so to combat exactly the opposition and give it a chance to speak. Well, yeah, that's exactly the point of parliamentaryism that it is, the opposition is offered to the public as an alternative to power. That's what it has to be and that's... and the power of the ruling to even encourage it and, despite this, to impose such a state of affairs with the strength of its argument. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] In this sense, talk about saving, about economics, about the economics of behaviour, certainly because various abuses are possible and it needs to be contained. Controling the spending of funds and of each individual representative, the club generally rational and thrifty to act but not at the expense of holding sessions, not at the expense of resolving important things because whenever it was saved on such things democracy paid dearly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-31-0.u9236	I thank the respected representative, Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic. On behalf of the HDZ Club, respected representative Drazen Bosnjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-31-0.u9237	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues and our HDZ Club respects the good intentions of this declaration. As far as the contents of the declaration are concerned, what is going on is that our performances in this House are either tolerable or tolerable as my colleague Letica says, that they are based on checking the facts, that they are based on the respect of colleagues who are here and who are not here, I think there is really nothing unacceptable about it. But the reason why our HDZ members on the Constitution Committee and the Rules of Procedure did not support this declaration, which is why we as the Club will not support it, they are purely formal. We already have one correct, normative framework for freedom of opinion and expression in this House. It's like the first constitution that guarantees freedom of thought, and then we've already talked about where we have certain provisions regarding immunity, and everything that we've told our colleagues and colleagues about, we've sworn at a constitutive session in this House. Article 7 of our Rules of Procedure, we have made a commitment to conduct this duty knowingly and responsibly. So all of this, in this declaration, is quite correctly written, I believe it is covered by this concept of conscience and responsibility. It's our thing to stick to it and actually base our performances on it. And that is why the position of the Constitution Committee and the Rules of Procedure was such that the declaration because we have things regulated in both the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure. Because we have sworn that the declaration as such is not necessary as another act. In particular, we were not satisfied with one solution to establish another separate parliamentary commission that would then arbitration whether someone was offended or not. But, uh, as far as the contents are concerned, there really wasn't any polemic tones or anything else, and we think that the normative framework that I've listed here is quite enough. It's just a matter of our application. And if I can look back at Parliament's work so far, I think that if we see it here for almost three months, I don't think anyone has been denied the right to state their views and opinions. It used to be in a little atmosphere that was more emotionally crowded, sometimes weaker, but I don't think anyone can complain that, uh, his word was taken away and that he couldn't say the word, in front of this Assembly speaker and in front of the Croatian public what he wanted. So here's why we're going to push forward in our responsibility work, for tolerance, but here's the formal reason we think that because the matter is regulated by both the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure, we don't think there's any formal reason for this declaration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-31-0.u9238	Thank you very much. The clubs are gone. One individual debate. Dear Representative Nenad Stazic. He's not here, so he can't. He's losing his word. And do you still want the proposer, the esteemed representative of Slaven Letica? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-31-0.u9239	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues are late. Once it's above all, it's my fault I'm particularly sorry now because it's obvious that the HDFort Club has nothing against the content it doesn't even have the opposite form and it's perhaps one document against which there's no arguments and it's probably not going to be adopted. During his time in this House, the distinguished Croatian actor and great representative Zlatko Knightz claimed to give this House of Chickens, however, he was not aware as an actor of the sociological research on the structure of the power in hens. And these are classic studies of Chicago schools that are very educational for this parlament. In classical hens, as you know, there are those stalls where hens sleep and the hens that are on the bottom ladder are in the worst position. Those who are worse in power are in the best position. In the worst position, they showed signs of physiological research measuring chickens hygienic research of chickens that are below are always unfavourable having messy sex lives, rarely clucking and a very sad situation. Chickens that are quite worse are a very privileged position. I don't want to be put in a position in this House that I don't deserve even for my public sharing, and that's why I am truly disappointed with the censorship of our President Vladimir Seks Jeer is his real metaphor failed to allow the Parliament to become a chateau, something that they asked me not as it was written in the paper before I don't know how many years ago by the press of the New York Times. It is, by chance, by one strange coincidence related to the statement of one very unpopular in the European history of man. Which is why Vladimir Seks himself was convicted in a well-mounted political process in his own time. I've defended him and I wouldn't want to treat this Parliament like a chateau. And in the end I'd just read something about what Mr. Havel said about people who choose to hate themselves whether it's individual hatreds of representative or club hate. We're like we said that we said that spine of the Parliament we're chickens that we're always up there, actually better exaneous drinkers or wolves. says Havel in a brilliant speech about hate anatomy. People who hate at least those I know have a deeply rooted sense of injury, a feeling that is, of course, beyond all the limits of reality. It's like these people want to be infinitely esteemed loved and respected. As if they suffer from chronic and painful knowledge that others are ungrateful and unforgivable to them. Not only do they disrespect them infinitely and not like them, as they should, but because they ignore them. And he says further, a man who hates a man who hates a whole lack of sense of taste, shame of objectivity. He lacks the ability to doubt and ask questions, the consciousness of his own passing and the passing of all things, the lack of experience of true absurdity, the absurdity of his own existence, feelings of his own alienation, powerlessness, failure, limitations or guilt. The common denominator of all of this is clearly a tragic almost metaphysical lack of feeling for measure. I would like this government and this assembly majority to be right to succeed, however, if you behave in such a way that the documents against which you have nothing in substance or formal terms and you are against them because I don't know them, Slaven Letica and the club HSPa this country will not have a great perspective. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-31-0.u9240	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. Tomorrow we'd move on because we'd have a debate with points 11 and 12. State audit reports on the work of the State Audit Office for 2002 In particular, the audits carried out for 2002 should vote on the conclusion of an proposal from the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security from the download of the official secret. Report by the State Office on the work on the implementation of the revision of conversion and privatisation, the report on the audit of conversion and privatisation carried out. And after that, we'll go back to point 7. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Pension Insurance Act for the Supporter of the HSS Club. For Friday, we will start voting and after voting today in accordance with the political agreement between the presidents of the clubs of all parliamentary parties, we will discuss the interpretation because during tomorrow we will receive a written response from the government to the interpretation submitted by the HSS, HSP and the SDP's advocates who supported it. So on Friday, with a debate and a vote on impellation. And the proposal for a law on the safety protection of merchant ships and ports opened for international traffic, it may come tomorrow if it is all almost in line with the Committee on Law and Ministry. And after that we would conclude this session on Friday. And the next one should be about 22. 23. So on the 21st day of April this month. A colleague of Bošnjakovic, please speed up the work on the preparation of the Rules of Procedure, as this also indicates that today's debate is necessary. I'll see you tomorrow at half past ten. Proposal for a declaration of free expression of opinion, views and beliefs in the Croatian Parliament. The proposal is the club of representatives of the HSP. The debate is closed. I am voting on the proposal for a declaration. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Who's restrained? I find that with 75 votes against, 37 for the not-proposed Declaration.
