ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24397	Your Honor, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. The government of the Republic of Croatia and the Ministry of Justice as its representative have proposed to this House the adoption of laws on amendments and amendments to the law on the lease of business space. Made as an incentive for craftsmen and small entrepreneurs. It should not in particular be pointed out that the business space of craftsmen and small entrepreneurs is one of the main preconditions for the normal performance of their activities. Article 6(1) of the applicable Law on the lease of business premises provides that business premises owned by the Republic of Croatia of municipalities, cities, county and city of Zagreb and legal persons owned by them are to be leased through a public tender. A part of the craftsman was able to reach a vital business space thanks to the stated legal possibility. However, a large part of such tenants will face a new problem just this year 2004. According to the present state of affairs, after the expiry of the deadline on which the lease of the business space was concluded, the leaser is obliged to return the business space to the tenant. In such a situation that could force craftsmen to close the doors of their crafts, for example, will be found. only in Zagreb about 1400 entrepreneurs. In view of such a situation in the vote on this draft law on the amendments to the law on business space law before us, the question arises whether the current tenants to which the contract on the lease of business space has been concluded are to be left to the market, in such a way that the creditor may terminate the contract or provide them with some kind of support. So I can continue my business normally. In this respect, it should be borne in mind that the tenants are therefore both state and county and municipality, cities and legal persons owned by them. And the tenants are mostly craftsmen and small entrepreneurs. So in principle, the question is whether the state, units of local and regional self-government, should encourage craftsmen. If the answer is yes, then this question is an example of a couple of excellencies where it can be done. Why? It is precisely because these legislative changes propose to allow the tenants to continue their business in the business premises they are currently working in. Otherwise, if such a law were not accepted, a large number of craftsmen would find themselves in suspense of what would happen to their work space. Therefore, by adopting a strategic decision to encourage craftsmanship and small entrepreneurship, the government proposes two incentives for craftsmen and small entrepreneurs as current tenants to carry out their contractual obligations neatly. First, Article 4 of the Law gives such tenants the right to the championship in the conclusion of new contracts in this way, and the hockey is resolved by a critical situation for craftsmen and small entrepreneurs according to which, in this year 2004, a large part of them have lost their business space. In the long term, the second Article 5 addresses the issue of business space for craftsmen and small employers who, as employees, regularly fulfil their contractual obligations in a way that gives them the opportunity to buy space owned by the Republic of Croatia. On the first question, I believe that there is agreement with the government's strategic decision to give the existing tenants the opportunity to continue their activities in the leased areas. I do not believe that someone would short-sightedly put the interest of the state or local self-government units to fill their budgets from the leases on the principle of who to do more, in front of the interest of the same state or local self-government unit, to contribute to economic growth through the development of crafts and small entrepreneurship in the long term. What can be discussed is a tactical decision on how to implement such a strategic commitment. There were different proposals in the debates in the cabinet and in the working bodies that could be grouped into two basics. The first proposal was to provide the existing tenants with the lease championship before the call for tenders. And the second is the proposal to open a public tender first and to give the right to existing tenants in the context of a public tender. This proposal for a law which is before you in Article 4 so minor that the current tenant of business space who fulfils all the obligations under the lease agreement has the principal right to conclude a new contract on the lease of business space if he participates in meeting the conditions of the tender and accepts the initial amount of the lease published in the public tender. However, I can announce that the Government will propose to the amendment another, in my view, a better variant that the creditor before the deadline on which the contract was concluded offers the conclusion of a new lease contract first to the current tenant of the business space that fulfils the obligations under the lease agreement. In order for the current tenant not to accept such an offer, the creditor would open a public tender. That way, as I said, the dangers of being in existence under the current law will be removed, so that in this year many of the craftsmen will be forced to close their crafts. And here's because there's been a lot of initiatives about solving the business space issue I think there's a high and good will in this home to make small but for craftsmen an important step forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24398	Thank you, Minister. Committee rapporteurs, Legislative Committee. The Justice Committee. The chairman of the Justice Committee, Honored Representative of Rade Ivas, please be my guest. I'm asking the MPs and the peace advocates.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24399	The Honorable President, Madam Minister, the Committee on the Justice of the Croatian Parliament discussed the 13th session held on 4 November 2004 a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the lease of business space with the final draft law submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the Croatian Parliament on 6 October 2004. The Committee discussed the law in question on the basis of its competence as set out in Article 73. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament as a parent working body. The Proposer's introductory representative pointed out that the final legislative proposal lays down the right of the Championship to enter into a lease contract, subject to participation in a public tender and acceptance of the initial amount of the lease. It also allows the current tenants to buy a business space owned by the Republic of Croatia, under conditions and under the procedure that the Government of the Republic of Croatia will prescribe by a special regulation. In the debate, the Committee members made certain comments and proposals on the proposed legal text. It is noted by the members of the Committee that the same legislative proposal regulates the lease of business space and the sale of business space owned by the Republic of Croatia. It is the Committee's view that the proposed sale of space owned by the Republic of Croatia to small business entities is a privileged position, compared to a number of other entities. the proposed provision of Article 5, in the opinion of the members of the Committee, doubts are given to the systematic legal position of the principle of the non-limiting of ownership rights and the equal legal position of all persons before the law. Therefore, the members of the Committee propose to delete the proposed provisions with the name of the law to delete Chapter 4 and Article 33a. the sale of space is regulated by a special law and the scope of the space owned by the Republic of Croatia and the area owned by units of local administration. The members of the Committee supported a proposed solution which rules the right of the Championship to conclude a lease agreement under the proposed conditions but also raises the question why the proposed Law does not apply to business space owned by units of local administration and self-government. After the debate was held, the Committee proposed that the applicant, in accordance with the observations and proposals, lay down its amendments to the Final Proposal for the Law, which was also adopted by the proposer and after the debate was held, for these reasons, the Committee on Justice unanimously proposes to the Croatian Assembly the adoption of the Law amending and supplementing the law on the lease of business premises. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24400	Thank you. The Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system. President, Honorable Representative Drazen Bosnjakovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24401	Mr. President, Madam Minister, colleagues and colleagues. On 3 November, the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System discussed the draft law amending and supplementing the law on the lease of business space with the Final Bill. The Committee discussed the Law on the basis of its competence as set out in Article 57. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament as an interested working body. In the debate, the applicant proposed, in accordance with the observations made, that the Government should establish its amendments to the Final Proposal for the Law, in particular Articles 4, 5 and 6. Final bill. The Committee shall keep the provision of Article 4, Article 6a. It was necessary to reshape it in a way to comply with the reasoning of the law. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Committee shall be questioned from a constitutional and legal point of view. The Committee maintains the proposed provision to the questionable constitutional principle of unlimited, non-limiting of ownership rights and the equal position of all persons before the law. The Committee also maintains that the provision of Article 6 should be regulated in a way to open public procurement on the lease of commercial premises to be completed under the provisions of a law that is more favourable to the tenant. After the debate, we unanimously propose to the Parliament, with all these remarks that the Law on Amendments and additions to the law on the lease of business space is adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24402	Thank you. The Committee on Local and Regional Self-Government. The Committee on Economy, Development and Reconstruction. The President, the Honorable Representative Drago Pukleš, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24403	Thank you, Mr. President. The Committee on the Economy, Development and Reconstruction of the Croatian Parliament at the 17th session held on 3 November 2004 discussed the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the law on the lease of business space with the Final Proposal for a Law submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, acting on 16 October 2004, with a proposal to comply with Article 159. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament shall adopt the proposed law by an urgent procedure. The Committee shall be within the meaning of Article 140. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament discussed the proposed law as an interested body. The opening presentation was submitted by a representative of the applicant. The debate was attended by members of the Committee and after the debate was held, the Committee proposed, with 7 votes in favour, 1 vote against and 1 vote abstention, that the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Chamber on the lease of business space be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24404	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. A club of representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community. Dear Representative Drazen Bosnjakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24405	Mr. President, Madam Minister, colleagues and colleagues. We have before us a law already proposed by both the HSS Club and the DC Club, and so there is obviously great interest in changing the existing regulation in this area. There is, of course, an initiative and there are views both of the Chamber of Commerce and of the Chamber of Commerce which also have certain requirements regarding the lease of a business space and therefore is one important issue that needs to be regulated in a different way than is regulated by the applicable law. In view of these observations made today by the Committee on Justice and the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system, we can say that this proposal should be amended in certain segments. I think we have until the end of this session just enough time for the government to go along with certain amendments. This is not an easy question to regulate, nor is it easy for all participants to be satisfied. On the one hand, we have the interests of the tenants of the business space which some of them have been in business space for many years and invest in this business space and want to remain in that business space and are not interested in having someone unfairly enter their game through a public tender, to unfairly raise their price. On the other hand, we have the interests of the tenant, the municipalities, the cities, the county, and the Republic of Croatia to provide certain activities and protection through more favourable lending to the lease of business space and when all, and we also have the interests of other economic operators who also reflect on business spaces and want to enter them. So when we see everything together it's pretty hard to find one solution that would satisfy all the participants and all the interested here. In our opinion, Article 4 concerning Article 6a would be questionable. This Act, which provides for so far the tenant of a business space which fulfils all the obligations under the lease agreement, shall have the primary right to conclude a contract for the lease of a business space if it participates and fulfils the conditions of the tender and to accept the initial amount of the lease published in the public tender. We believe that this should go with one less imperative norm, in a way that, as the Minister has already announced, as one of the possible solutions, I think it would be much more appropriate, that the existing tenant of the business space, the tenant, who regularly fulfils the obligations of the contract, and if there is a special interest in that, means the tenant, should be invited before the end of the contract, to make a new contract with him under conditions which, of course, will be re-determined by the borrower. If the tenant does not accept these conditions, then there is no obstacle to going to a new one, to going to a public tender and to who is interested, to report for that business space. I think this is one less imperative norm that doesn't order anyone, who doesn't penetrate the rights of the owners, so that only provides the possibility of such an act to be far more appropriate than this standard that's being offered here. And that's why as a club, we'll still see and analyze the situation if the government doesn't go along with its amendment, I think we as a club are probably going to set up an amendment like this. We are also in doubt regarding the provisions of Article 5 and Article 33a. whether to go with such a provision in this Act, about selling business space. For the sake of this provision, we also change the name of this whole law, so now the Law is no longer the Law on the lease of business space, but it is also the law on the sale of business space, although the sale would only apply to those premises owned by the Republic of Croatia. In our opinion, it is doubtful whether this should be implemented in this way in this Law or perhaps it would be much better to go with a special one law that would actually be better suited to both the way and the procedure, so that perhaps the number of issues that would be regulated by this regulation mentioned here would be narrowed down. And we think there's plenty of time for the government to, with eventually own amendments to fix this, a proposal for this law, because there really is an interest in a number of economic operators, and I think that what this law sees to welcome the government's intention and decision to help small businessmen, craftsmen, and there's a transparent will and desire to actually make these spaces as accessible to them as possible. However, the point is actually to implement this goal which is justified in any case. The HDZ Club will in any case support this law as a good intention, and by the end of the debate we will also see and analyse the situation and possibly submit amendments in terms of what I said here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24406	Thank you. NNS club PGS respected representative Srecko Ferenčak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24407	Dear Mr. President, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs, Your Honor, Madam Minister. This Government's Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Hire of Business Space, with the Final Proposal for the Law, confirms that this Government, since it does not have its own idea, usually cooperates, listens and respects the suggestions of those who understand and are aware of the importance of solving this problem. The Croatian People's Party also showed that. What exactly is this about? As you remember, the Club of the Croatian People's Party and the PGS proposed at one of the previous meetings of the Assembly amendments and additions to the Law on the lease of business space in such a way that the existing tenants have the right to a championship in the lease of business space if they participate and meet the conditions of a public tender and if they have a contract concluded under the existing law and if they carry out their obligations in order to comply with that contract. For reasons of understanding of the problems and needs of craftsmen and small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, the Croatian People's Party and the PGS Club have proposed such amendments and additions throughout their working life through their independent performance, they make their existence known and pay taxes neatly and their full state budget. These people must be cared for and allowed by the state to carry out their activities uninterruptedly to provide them with a fair competition with respect to the principle of justice and therefore after all and entrepreneurial equality. At least that's what we think. As you probably remember, the Government did not support our proposal with an explanation that the proposed provisions were contained in the existing law in the transitional and final provisions, which was, of course, a wrong, incorrectly stated finding. Now this same government overwrites our bill, virtually confirming that, by reason of the HNS bill, it has deceived parliamentary deputies, which is extremely scandalous and drastically undermines the credibility of this same government. You, however, were fellow MPs, representatives of the ruling majority by your vote against our proposal, and now you will most likely support this proposal. Worse yet, you have also supported the DC proposal that did not have a public tender institution at all, which did not propose that people must also fulfil their obligations, and you rejected our proposal. What did you show by that? Well, they've shown colleagues from the ruling majority that you're inconsistencies, that you're not in the interest of helping craftsmen and medium and small entrepreneurs, but your only interest is politics and collecting cheap political points.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24408	I warn you, fellow Ferencak, that you do not use such offensive expressions that will then encounter the defence reactions of the ruling majority parties. I don't think it's correct and it's not in line with the level of one political culture that you're estimating the political views of a series of parties, especially all parties of the ruling majority. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24409	I said your only interest was politics and the collection of cheap political points. I don't see anything ugly or offensive, if you have any other expressions, teach me.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24410	I asked you to.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24411	So let's move on. You reject our proposal with incorrect explanations, and you don't offer much yourself. You brought down our bill, and the fact that our craftsmen worked for almost a year in suspense and uncertainty during the time you prescribed our bill didn't bother you at all. We in the Croatian People's Party are never going to slave for narrow party interests, and we will always support the proposals of laws that we consider to be good regardless of which party we propose them. We bear witness to this attitude in this assembly, supporting the proposals of laws that improve and improve our legislation and improve the lives of our citizens no matter who proposes them. And despite the fact that this law is proposed by the Government and despite the fact that the law is prescribed, the Croatian People's Party Club and the PGS will support this proposal to amend and supplement the law on the lease of business space because we believe that such a bill is correct and welcome. To guarantee our craftsmen security, the possibility of planning business activities for a longer period and guaranteeing them the implementation of the constitutional principle of justice and equality of all. As we suggested in our bill a few months ago, exactly the same. We also believe that the public tender is the only transparent and correct way to rent space that allows a fair competition, and provides local self-government units with a fair remuneration for renting a business space. However, the Croatian People's Party Club and the Primorje-Gorskin Alliance express the reserve in relation to Article 33a, which says that the business premises owned by the Republic of Croatia will sell to the current tenant if they submit a request for purchase and carry out their obligations under the contract neatly and under the conditions and procedures laid down by the regulation by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. In fact, the sale of a business space without a public tender, and only one group, puts all other entities in an unequal position because it gives one a greater legal and economic security than others, while opening up the possibility of abuse, making it more possible for the government to determine the way of sale in the bill itself, and not later to do so by a regulation, which creates further doubts. In fact, it is completely unclear why the Government proposes such an amendment to the law when, according to the laws currently in force, it is possible to sell a business space owned by the Republic of Croatia, because the Republic of Croatia sells its premises but clearly through a public tender. It remains an open question whether this amendment wants to avoid a public tender and introduce some kind of "grey zone", but we will be able to answer that only after we see a regulation that will require the government to sell the business space. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24412	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Frano Piploić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24413	I would correct the inaccuracy of my colleague Ferencak in the part where he stated that the Democratic Centre has actually written a proposal that was last proposed by the Croatian People's Party, and it is also incorrect that our proposal, that we proposed that the institution should be abolished. The competition was also in our proposal, we only proposed to establish and that the possibility for those who regularly pay and are small, they are craftsmen and they are small privates that they can only enjoy this right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24414	Thank you. And a second correction to the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Emil Tomljanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24415	Mr. President, it is an incorrect allegation of an esteemed representative who said that the only interest of the majority advocates is politics and the collection of cheap political points in the context of the adoption of this law. That's not true. The ruling majority's representatives only pointed to the most optimal solutions to address the issue of small and medium-sized entrepreneurship, but always and of course in accordance with the Constitution and the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24416	Thank you. HSP club, respected representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24417	Dear Mr. President, Madam Minister, colleagues and colleagues. The club of HSP representatives is pleased that today we are discussing this very important law because it is related to an important issue of small craftsmen, entrepreneurs whose situation is now quite difficult to deal with the way and possibilities of extending the lease agreement. But the HSP club reminds us of the following things. We have always been clear and expressive about this problem, and this is the next legal situation. The existing tenant should, if he correctly settles his obligations, at the end of the period on which he was leased a business space, have a championship for the new Contract on the lease of a business space, but provided that this is a public tender. Therefore, we must always comply with constitutional provisions and must always go to a public tender and in all such situations, so the current tenant would have and should have the advantage, but must participate in the competition and under the conditions of best offer then has the right to extend that contract on the lease of business space. And now we're going to go to another thing that's very important, and that's selling business space. At this point in Croatia is if it is property, there is property of municipalities, meaning business space owned by municipalities, cities, county and state. So it's a legal situation. And to us, in all such situations, let us adhere to the Law on Mandatory Relations, that is, the OGZ of the former. So if the owner, and he always has the right to decide that business space will be sold, because the right of ownership cannot be restricted, then we would have the right to be a tenant in such competitive conditions when sold, would have the right to buy first. So the first purchase right under the most favourable offer given in this contest is two legal situations clear and enforceable and therefore we suggest that it might be wise for this law to go to second reading, to go to second reading to remove all these indeterminates that we have talked about so far. The first is this big problem, meaning constitutional, doubts there are constitutionally legal natures and these are related to Articles 49 and 50. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The law on local and regional, i.e. regional self-government, and we cannot go beyond that as easily as we cannot simply cross over the fact that this law introduces a new model regarding the issue of purchase and everything else. According to the current regulations at this time in Croatia, the issue of ownership relations and everything else means sales are being resolved by the Law on Mandatory Relations, the Law on Property and other real rights, and we are now referring to the Law of 92th and that is the Law on the Encouragement of a Small Economy and that is legal uncertainty. We need to be aware of this fact that in this way legal uncertainty is created, because for all these situations when the property is sold state, when this property of municipalities, cities and counties is sold, we need to introduce a system that holds water, which is clear and which is feasible and in this sense we think that there is room for real and our proposal is to go to another reading. If it's true what Mr. Ferenchek says is prescribed by the CNS, then we're not surprised why the law is so bad in this part. Now that we're in business space, or real estate state, we have to point out the following things. On the other day, information was provided in the means of public communication that only now has the central state office executed a list of all the assets the state has and that is a huge problem. We know ourselves, for example, the Ministry of Defence used to have 383 business spaces and these business premises one part was rented to families who were killed by Croatian military disabled people, and the other part was empty. Now he doesn't know if he's in the Department of Defense's intelligence, they say they handed it over to the central state administration office, but the situation is clear, the gaping areas are empty, and they could be leased, they could be opened to craftsmen. So the worst option is to stand there and stare blank. The second is also the situation with valuable military properties so-called. which is also not known whether they are available to the Ministry of Defence or to the central state office, and all of this should not be given to municipalities and cities without kuna, without compensation that they then share with their counterparts, because in this way we can also rebuild the Armed Forces, so one part of the lease, these are worth paying attention, throughout the Croatian Adriatic are valuable properties. One part we decide to lease, and the other part we can fill in the state budget to do what is necessary to redecorate, means no reduction, because we are now doing a reduction, restructure the Armed Forces and still fill in the state budget. We therefore expect the state to act now when it is finally signed with the attention of a good master. It's the most important option. With the good master's attention to be mastered in a way that will enable the state budget to be charged, not the giving of new taxes. So I'm saying it over and over again. We welcome this, but because of these doubts of constitutional law and in order to protect the legal security of citizens, we propose that you refer to the Minister or you will have to amend all these provisions, because the provisions of Articles 4, 5 and 6 have been laid down to comment that the doubts are constitutionally legal in nature and let us not do more regimes for the same legal situation, because this creates further legal uncertainty, and we know ourselves what the situation is now about the functioning of the rule of law and for the legal security of citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24418	Thank you. Dear Representative Frano Piploić, Club of Representatives of the DC and HSLS. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24419	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues, Madam Minister. After the first reading extensively discussed the proposed law on the lease of business space and gave our comments and suggestions, we received the basis of this and the final bill that I hope to adopt after this debate, thus enabling craftsmen and small businesses to maintain a stable corporate security. The cradle of the Croatian economy is craftsmanship, its proven ability and tenacity to survive in the difficult circumstances of the Croatian transition and economic importance confirm the foundation of this legislative proposal. In the past month, the Democratic Centre has had many meetings with many craftsmen and their associations in Zagreb, Split, Osijek, Zadar, Rijeka, Slavonski Brod, Sisak, Karlovac and other places. We have had the opportunity to hear the enthusiasm of almost all craftsmen and small entrepreneurs with whom we have contacted, which will enable them with these changes and additions on the lease of business space what they have always wanted, which means safety in their micro environment, where they work and perform their activities, or where they provide their services. The proposed amendments and additions to the existing Law on the lease of business space according to its number of amended and amended articles are small, but large, on the other hand, in their effects. What is this going to get those for which we are actually proposing this law? We'll get the safety that everyone needs first, especially small ones like craftsmen and small businessmen. Presumptions are being created to develop a designed and more concrete economic strategy in each environment. It encourages craftsmen and small entrepreneurs in their business projects and investment investments. The entrepreneurial spirit and the entrepreneurial environment are expanding, the pressures of both local and local are increasing. Greater opportunities are being created for implementing practical economic policy measures, capable and vision-talented chiefs and mayors of these changes and additions are being given good tools to promote development, craftsmanship and small entrepreneurship in their environments. It reduces the risk of closing trades that we heard from Ms. Minister and the small enterprise that would occur during the bidding for the lease of business premises because Article 6(4) of the existing Law gives priority to the lease of the highest offered amount, which is essentially a bid and price accumulation that our craftsmen would not endure. The possibility of tycounisation of business spaces owned by state, municipalities and cities is diminished. For example, according to craftsmen and small entrepreneurs, concrete implementation of constitutional principles of justice and equality is achieved because this Law is equating them with those who have already used state support through the purchase of shares under privileged conditions or the purchase of apartments under privileged conditions. More rational and efficient use of business spaces is achieved. The existing irresponsible tenants have been sued for non-payments, which is why many of the premises are out of office. They're closed, no one's using them, and during court proceedings, court costs increase for both the tenant and the tenant. We will get better and more regular rent payments because those who have been irregular in paying their commitments so far will be stimulated by these amendments and supplements, as they will also be able to benefit from the benefits offered by this Law when they regularly pay all their obligations. These amendments and additions to the Law open concrete opportunities for the practical preservation of Croatia and crafts heritage, identity and local recognition. Finally, the proposal for this law allows the current tenants to purchase a business space owned by the Republic of Croatia, and legal persons owned or mostly owned under conditions and under a procedure to be laid down by the Government of the Republic of Croatia by a special provision. Small economies and craftsmen are an important factor in the Croatian economy because they account for the largest number of economic operators. They employ more than half of the total number of employees, so buying a business space which is also proposed by this Law, which has been leased and invested in maintenance for years, gives craftsmen and small businesses a concrete opportunity to better conduct their business policies or small businesses. Now they have the ability to mortgage business space when they decide, say, to raise bank loans so they can improve their business. Small craftsmen and small businessmen, they rightly expect this Law to pass this procedure successfully and with patience expect it because it means for many lives. Because during these contact with craftsmen we recorded several remarks. First of all, it concerns Article 6 of the proposed Law, we will submit an amendment to Article 6 to delete this Article. Why? Because, in this way, you would be further protected by current tenants, especially craftsmen. Therefore, if the proposed amendment is not accepted, it would mean that those tenants whose business premises are already under the existing Law are placed under a public tender. Therefore, if these proceedings were to be completed under this existing Law, these employees would be excluded, i.e. they would be prevented from using the business premises prescribed by the proposed Law. This is contrary to the goal of clearly achieving these legal changes. Therefore, we will invest, or I will make an amendment to delete this Article 6. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24420	Thank you. SDP club, respected representative Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24421	Dear Mr. President, Ms. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. The government represents this Law and says, indeed, that the aim of this Law is to protect small craftsmen and daffodils, to improve their insecure status which they have well and because of the existing law on the lease of business space. And such a finding in this other part is indeed correct and this Law really needs to be improved. However, the proposed legal solution, or proposal, is that really so? It seems to me that, in the SDP Club, we believe that a much better-quality solution was the one proposed by the HNS Club and even the DC in its law. In this regard, some clubs have already declared themselves, Article 4, or the amendment proposed in Article 6.a. Where it is desired, that is, the situation is shown that it wants to protect the current tenant, of course, is often thought of by that small craftsman. And then what do you say? That he will remain in the lease, in this lease relationship if he accepts the initial amount of the lease. There it is, there we see a big trap and indeterminateness and intransparentity that can enable different units of local self-government to deal with a certain space, to treat a particular tenant differently. Because where it says it's going to be one small acceptable price for that tenant. Nowhere. So we will have one situation, or quite, according to this, if this law is adopted, we can have such a situation. That somewhere, if we want to get rid of that tenant, and that's one of the biggest dangers, they're going to determine that starting price that's enormous, which your little craftsman, that's that little crafter, he's going to be able to handle, but someone else who's going to have more attractive prospects, or intentions in business, is going to sell exclusive goods, etc. And there's a big trap. Therefore, a large hole opens up which small craftsmen can enter, and makes the law, or we propose it and represent it as a protection, as their protection. And then where's the answer? Of course, some units of local self - administration if they respect the spirit of the Law, if it is in their interest to protect them at all, will apply them, or set a decent, acceptable price. But this law doesn't oblige them. Therefore, the SDP Club proposed an amendment to this provision, believing that it should, that this provision should be corrected in such a way that such space, or such spaces, would be exposed to a public tender, and that it would be precisely, that such a tenant who is now in a leased relationship would have the right of the championship in case he accepts the highest amount of the lease offered. Otherwise, this way or someone more precise. Otherwise in this way we open up a great opportunity for local self-government units to just squeeze out small craftsmen and then deal with some larger lease, bigger, more attractive business that would take place in these areas. The new Head of Law, which is introduced, is the sale of business space owned by the Republic of Croatia. If the Law itself and its amendments bear the name of the Law on the lease of business space, and the lease is something similar to the sale, then there is no reason, if it was to be resolved and intervened in this Law, then certainly, the HDZ Club also spoke of, there must be an amendment to the Law itself. Because it is inadmissible that in one law, it is from the nomotechnical point of view and the rules, as one law is ultimately made, it is inadmissible that in one law that bears the name of the Law on the lease of business space we have a whole head that speaks of the sale of business space and is owned by the Republic of Croatia. And that's a whole head, and only one provision applies to that, and so, I think, quite correctly even reacted from the HDZ Club where it's said that just if this matter was to be solved, and I also think it's necessary when it comes to selling business space owned by the Republic of Croatia to be done in one transparent way, then it's certainly not enough for this one single provision as proposed in Article 33a. or these are already conditions for one special law, and if not, in any case again, I point to one trap in which small craftsmen will be found again. In fact, the provision states that the business space owned by the Republic of Croatia will be sold to the tenant who, under the Law on the Encouragement of Small Economy, will be applied for by a small holding. Something that's very convenient, very attractive, but is that so? Whether obstructions are possible, i.e. the playback of existing provisions. Is anyone able to report as a small entity, a small economy small craftsman, so register, immediately submit an application for attractive space, became the owner, very favourable, and then shut down and close down his small craft because it is neither intended to engage in small crafts, but to sell exclusive, foreign, expensive goods, very profitable work. Therefore, if it is indeed the proposal to protect a small craft, then surely in such a single sales contract there must be at least one clause to continue to deal with these small crafts, small crafts that are extinct even though our goal is to protect such a person, that is the way to regulate it. There have also already been comments on Article 6 so these remarks are here and quoted, they came from the Croatian Chamber of Commerce and indeed so, the law is proposed to be adopted in an emergency procedure and then there is no reason for those who have competed under the old law where an ad was called for to come in any case in a more unfavourable position and therefore there is no reason to be if the law was corrected in this sense and then it was more favourable for them to not apply exactly the new Law, and it seems to me that it was precisely intended to be adopted by an emergency procedure, by means of an emergency procedure, in order for such failures in which small craftsmen would most often see such a situation for them to be eliminated. That's why the SDP Club believes, if the government really intended to protect a small craftsman to then accept the SDP Club's amendment and in that case they would then vote for this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24422	Thank you very much. Honorable representative Zeljko Pecek, club representative of the HSS. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24423	Thank you very much, Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor, Madam Minister. I would like to say at the outset that the HSS cannot support the amendment of this Law and, in fact, from the arguments that we have now received from the representatives of the Clubs, but also as important to us as the president of the Committee, because all committees stress that they support this Law, however, they have a serious need for amendments, so that this Law, which has 7, 8 articles, will obviously have more amendments than articles and, of course, loses the meaning of this way of proposing. What we are not satisfied with at the Club is the fact that this is an faceless theft of ideas, including the text of the law, I will remind the club of the representatives of the HSS on March 25th of this year in the procedure of the Proposed Law on the sale of business space owned by both the Republic of Croatia and the units of local self-government, however, we strongly noted that this was a proposal made by the Chamber and which we support. A month after that, the 21st of April DC was given "obviously an original idea" and referred to us with the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Hire of Business Area, of course in which it regulates and sells, which is very vividly explained by her colleague Ingrid. Here, in fact, in that passage, we encountered a copy of certain provisions of the articles, as well as the arguments of the Law, and in fact the same applies to the proposal for a law on leases, which was presented here before us by the CNS. Although it is common, one, and the other, and also the third proposal, it is common that there is a desire to help this sector of crafts and small entrepreneurship, especially in the area of property ownership. I will remind so far those who have managed, who have used state or social property have in some way consumed it both through conversion, so through the sale of social housing, through the sale of agricultural land that is under way and I stress it was all under more favourable conditions where the discount was defined, where we had a marginal payment and where apparently these users came to some benefit. The craftsmanship sector, regardless of the fact that there are over 100,000 entrepreneurs in it with about 250 thousand employees, regardless of the long tradition and high expectations in the future, has remained empty-handed so far. They continue to rent them countries, or equally municipalities or cities, possibly more rarely, have mostly in the short term rent and are worried about each other's competition whether they will be able to keep that space or whether they will be able to continue their business, in other words there is a great uncertainty. In such circumstances, it is very difficult to make decisions on investment in the regulation of space, on investment in the development of activity, and if a mortgage loan is to be used, of course, it is not possible because the craft has no ownership and cannot pawn that property with the bank. This is an insurmountable obstacle, not to mention that often times the monthly amount of rent paid is greater than the loan rate that would eventually be taken to buy that space. What is also important are the investments that have been made in this space because the craftsman cannot observe life around him without being active, so that, despite the lack of regulated long-term ownership, he invests in editing the space and at the moment when he extends the contract, the moment he would eventually want to buy that space is an important element as much as he has invested in the state space. What is absolutely certain is that this sector, meaning craftsmanship and little entrepreneurship, deserves special attention from this country. I will remind myself that in Parliament in 2002, for the first time in Croatia, we passed the Small Economy Development Act, where we not only defined the size of that sector, that we have brought this law into line with all the positive assets of the European Union and we have adopted some encouraging measures to further develop it. Of course, in this area we want to, we can, and we also have to improve the situation. Under this law, the Government of the Republic of Croatia adopted a small economy development programme for the period until 2004 and for the period until 2006 because we changed this small economy development programme in 2003. Here he was disputed on condition in the Parliament because we were in some way accused of having dared to pass a programme for the period when the mandate of the former government expired. However, it has been changed solely for the sake of good achievement and we have given these rather recognizable and clear goals. In the 99th or early 2000s, we had poor financial results in the small entrepreneurship sector, better said a negative consolidated financial result. We had what was already said was a lack of encouraged measures, a great indifference. We had what was most important insufficient institutional support, but also impossible access to banking capital between 13 and 15%. By the end of 2003, thanks to such a law, the programme also created a credit potential of over 1 billion euros. Over 7,000 loans worth more than 5 billion kuna were granted, and the average interest was below 7%, meaning double the interest rate of four years ago. Thanks to such a programme, thanks to such access to crafts and small entrepreneurship open or launched 188 entrepreneurship zones, 21 entrepreneurial incubator and 48 entrepreneurship centres were established. Other measures in the programme have also yielded their results, so craftsmen and entrepreneurs have adopted isonnorms that projects used to support those crafts that also have traditions for art crafts. I would like to stress that in this sector special attention has also been given to those who are small, who are beginners or women, or young ones. Such measures and such a shift have actually yielded a result of 17 thousand twists more. New 170 cooperatives were founded, 6 thousand small companies and most importantly only in the craft sector were employed by over 50,000 people. Because of these figures, I'm sure we'll all agree that the sector of craft and small economy deserves further support. However, what differs between the HSS and DC proposals in further support through a legislative framework that defines the business space? The HSS is unequivocally proposing. Sales of business space to the tenant if it is small, the market price of space is determined, again that market price for... building values and the position of disadvantage. The buyer shall be granted discounts depending on the length of the lease and the funds invested in the business space. The purchaser is also given the possibility of a round-the-clock payment. The purpose of the funds collected in this way from the sale is to invest in new business premises, i.e. areas for entrepreneurship to be built. In this way, we believe that, throughout the sale of these premises, the process of transforming social property would be completed, where significant funds would be raised. It is interesting that the Government of the Republic of Croatia with the International Monetary Fund has concluded an arrangement that plans to speed up the privatisation of the portfolio of the Privatisation Fund, and this law is also on the trail. I believe that we must also include an accelerated privatisation of buildings, i.e. state-owned real estate, or we will only sell shares, or a public sector, and we will treat business space according to the old one, so maybe it is not state-owned or money is not property. If craftsmen through this Act are supported as in the budget, that is, budgeting for the first six months of this year will be more than catastrophic, because of the total of 165 million kunas spent on this sector, only 17 million kunas were spent. And it is also important to say from 17 million just on salary and on the material costs of 6 million and 300 thousand kuna. I want to go back to that little economy development program and stress that it is precisely in this year...predicted that through the business space of defence and a small economy you put into a property function worth several hundred million kunas. Since that realization obviously has nothing, it tells us the execution of the budget that I was just talking about earlier. But what is absolutely certain is that the amendments to the Law of this third reading HSS are strongly opposed to the formulation in Article 7 of the Law, which determines how business space will be sold to the tenant, i.e. determines that the terms and procedures of sale will be prescribed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia within 60 days of the date of entry into force of the Law. This is another case where the government completely unnecessarily puts itself in the position of the Parliament. If we adopt the proposed text, the Parliament actually leaves absolutely unnecessary to the Government of the Republic of Croatia to actually pass the law. Because it determines the strongest provisions of that law. It is completely unnecessary, it is non-transparent, it is delaying the start of the process, allowing the Government of the Republic of Croatia discretionary decision away from the eyes of the public. I hope that the proposal for a regulation will not be the same working group that has proposed the write-off of debts to Imostro or the giving of a direct contract without a public tender to Bechtel. In order to avoid any suspicion, but also to do what we are paying for here in the Parliament, I am more than sure that all the clubs of the MPs will support the proposal that the way and conditions of the sale of the business space are determined by the amendments to the law, not by the government's regulation. The HSS also cannot accept a provision giving priority to the extension of the contract to the tenant, provided that he has fulfilled all the obligations under the contract, accepted the initial amount of the lease and participated in the competition. This is actually completely illogical. If so far the tenant has fulfilled all contractual obligations, and accepts the initial amount of the lease, and has the advantage, then the tender is actually not necessary. This would save a lot of money and speed up procedures throughout the process. In particular, the HSS cannot accept the text of Article 6 which provides that the ongoing tender will be completed in accordance with the provisions of the Old Law on the rental of business space because it is more unfavourable for the tenants who use the space. We believe that, following the entry into force of the Law, the sale or lease of a business space that is under way and for which no choice decision has been taken under a new law that is more favourable. Finally, I believe that one solution to the amendments to this Law is to respect the observations made in progress and to unite all those proposals that have already been in the process. So the proposal of the Croatian Peasant Party, the proposal of the Croatian People's Party and the proposal of the DC which the government should consider through the new Law on the Sale of Business Space and through the amendments to the Law on the Rent of Business Space to come to common solutions. I believe we wouldn't need too much effort and time to do that, except political will. I call upon you to do so, because the craftsman and small economy sector certainly deserves it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24424	Thank you. And distinguished representative Damir Cain, IDS Club, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24425	Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor, Madam Minister, This law has good elements, unfortunately there are bad ones. They are a good right of the championship in relation to, say, defenders if the tenant properly fulfils his obligation to rem the tenant. And the second here is now seeing what everyone was talking about for the first time, the opportunity to sell the business space so-called. the subject to a small economy. One word or between them and the craftsman. And the procedure, as stated in the Law, should be regulated by the Croatian government. As a club of HSS and IDS, it suggests that the "edit" should come before the MPs and that these terms be regulated by law. As good as that law is on the other hand, the law is "incomplete, unfair and discriminatory". According to who? According to the so-called to a small economy which has a business space and it is owned by a city, municipality or county. The government can't now, in our opinion, make a distinction between craftsmen who are in possession of the so-called. a business space owned by a state and craftsman who owns a business space owned by a city. I believe that this is extremely inhumane, discriminatory and perhaps even offensive, and that it is important in that particular section that the minister herself did when she was in office in front of parliamentary deputies. The other thing I'm saying is that what's for a peasant country is for a craftsman's business space. The Croatian peasant or better said Croatian village can be "saved" if we create conditions for work for him, which is to give the peasant to them the land. The Croatian village currently has an average size of 2.8 hectares, meaning 3 hectares and in such imprecise market conditions it will fail. Of these 2.8 hectares, it is clear that the peasant cannot live, let alone that he can deal with competition, whether imports from the European Union, whether combined, etc. Also, according to my court, the condicio son of qua non Croatian craftsmen at this time is business space. Without business space, craftsmanship is doomed to extinction and therefore I believe they must come to the same. Secondly, craftsmen are the only category in the Republic of Croatia that has received nothing from the Croatian transition. They were ideologically inexperienced during communism and today they seem to have played the last hole. The workers got apartments, the craftsmen couldn't get them at the time of socialism. Socialist directors and former authorities have won factories, peasants win or win the country. The craftsmen are the only ones who can't make it to business space. Now we see that this business space can be reached by those craftsmen who are in relation to the state but not by those who are in relation to local self-government and I claim without business space our craftsmen cannot develop. They don't even ask for any discounts on the purchase or anything like that. They ask for one word to buy it and then the state, the city, I don't know who, let them invest it where it's being deported. But clearly, the city mafia doesn't because there's almost no business space in bigger cities that don't get some pink under the table. Secondly, if the gentlemen of this government were to think about craftsmanship honestly, and that would have happened to be in that position, then they would have passed very quickly a law that fits all craftsmen. This is how more is thought about how to privatise HEP, Croatian forests, etc. What is certainly necessary at this time to open the debate on Croatian craftsmen immediately and to finally stop the mystification that craftsmen are some chosen caste, that they have something like that. I claim that today in the Republic of Croatia there are no more vulnerable categories than our craftsmen. There's no category that works on the other side, no category that's more sacrificed than a craftsman. Well, finally, they match all their property. I claim that 50% of the trades may even be in a better position for employees than craftsmen themselves. At least these first ones know that they can count on wages and these others can only count on new commitments, by their necks are creditors, banks, cities, states, suppliers, spare competition, large chains that will simply eat those small craftsmen. Let’s just take an example of the Law on Community rents against which the IDS has harshly acted. If someone in a town gets a rent "taken" out of income a thousand kuna, that little craftsman can settle it without having to make ten thousand kunas. I assure you it's not that simple. The second thing that is not taken into account in Croatia is that I hold that when craftsmanship is due to issue so-called. licences for individual trades. There can't be fifty stores in a little Buzet I don't know about bread, or fifty and more catering facilities of which you're lucky or unfortunate. No one works in Buzet anyway, because everyone's working somewhere. One word needs to determine quotas so that everyone can work clearly and earn and not just end up in bankruptcy, not settle their obligations, and then we know how it goes. Fourthly, there is no city, and I want to say, which has built business spaces already are the main consequences of nationalisation in Istria options. More specifically, the result of the fixed assets. I don't know, for example, from a Pula 47 that was then numbering 32,000 inhabitants left the city nearly 25,000 people and then clearly left behind apartments, crafts spaces, etc. Now so-called. Optanical property is the subject of the "market". The tenants who lived in those apartments for five or six thousand marks bought these apartments that today some sell for 150 thousand euros, but craftsmen cannot come to such a position. Clearly, they don't even ask for such discounts. God forbid they are finally allowed to sell these places and to infect them so fantastically. No, I'm against it. So let's say that a clause should be introduced that for 20 or 30 years, it doesn't matter, these people have to work in that space, they or their families, to keep that activity, and otherwise the seller should, under the same conditions that they came to own or own them now, repurchase those premises. In the same way, it is necessary to regulate and give agricultural land to our peasants. This law therefore discriminates against first-row craftsmen in my view. It is those who are in the state space and the craftsmen of the second row, which are those who are in the city spaces, and this must be avoided in my court. It is unfair to say that formerly I do not know the directors etc., the chosen former authorities, it does not matter, they could buy banks, shipyards, shipping companies, factories, hotel houses, tobacco factories and now one craftsman cannot buy a business space of 50, 60 or 70 square meters in which he acts together with his family an activity that enables him to live such a life. I assure you once again, there is no greater poorer than a craftsman. They said they guaranteed all the property. The workers can count on getting paid. They're very, very difficult. They're in charge of all sides, they're silent, and in one word they're carrying society in constant fear that the next day they'll be formed again so-called. Taxes or financial police someone knock on the door. It is clearly necessary once again, I repeat, to avoid that business space being the subject of speculation, of commerce, I do not know that it is transferred from hand to hand, to earn on it. I think that's what we all agree on in principle. In one word, the craftsman should leave that business space to be his work subject in the future. So much, I said, that space must be in the same position, and if it is state property, that is, the property of local self-government. There can't be a difference between one and the other. Mr. Pacek had earlier well threatened that, so mostly these areas of craftsmen are looking for a loan so they can start a mortgage so that they can further develop their activity. In Croatia at this time about 500 thousand people, as I have heard, work in a small economy, in craftsmanship somewhere around 200 thousand, 80 thousand reportedly have these business premises which, under quotes “state, municipal or private property”. If this is not done, in my judgment we will introduce one injustice, injustice to heaven, for those who will now be able to buy these places from the state and the other who will not be able to do so. Finally, we know for ourselves that there is no city in Europe that has these places. But lastly, I would like to point out once again for the third time that this space must in no way be the subject of speculation that someone buys it and later on for the larger money resells. We need to prevent that anyway, but we need to put a sign of equality between those that are in the so-called. state spaces and those who are in the premises of local self-government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24426	Thank you very much. I'm reporting that it's time to apply for a ten-minute debate on this subject. At 10.44. We have several corrections of incorrect allegations. First respected representative Željko Antešić. Here you go. Zdenko Antešić, excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24427	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Namely, in his special act, counterpart Cain said that each local mafia must be paid for pink for the assignment of business space. Here, I'm one of the representatives of that local mob, as mayor of one city. I claim that business premises are awarded by competition, by public competition according to pre-arranged rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24428	Thank you very much. Second Amendment, Honored Representative Miroslav Korenika.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24429	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In several incorrect allegations that Mr. Cain made, one is certain that there is no greater poorer than a craftsman. He obviously forgot about those people, as well as people who are unemployed, about textile workers in the training industry who have extremely low wages. And another incorrect allegation, he said, is that there is no city in Croatia that does not mostly live on renting nationalized spaces. I have to tell you, Mr. Cain, the town of Varazdin has most of the business space that he rents and buys new business premises regularly. Therefore, it seems to me that your claim is entirely inadequacy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24430	And the third amendment. Dear Representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24431	Thank you, Mr. President. By correcting the quote as well as a colleague of the Korenika but in another way, counterpart Cain said that there is no greater poverty than a craftsman, it is of course completely incorrect, it is not embarrassing to be, of course, poor people, so of course there is a much greater number among this category and a significant number of those who are very successful in the market and indeed their status cannot be counted among the poor. And of course that's incorrect. In addition, my colleague Cain said so much inaccuracy about business spaces, but time does not allow me, so later in the presentation, I will look back on that part.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24432	Thank you, the club debate is over. An individual debate, a respected representative of Jure Bitunac.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24433	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. So this Law, the Law on the Hire of Business Space, given the ideas that have come from several clubs so far, I can say that it is in some way challenging, it has caused and here is today some controversy. And what's common in all these exhibitions is the same thing we can agree on here is a situation where we put craftsmen in front of the lease, or in front of the rent as such. In other words, all of us in this Parliament and the Government of the Republic of Croatia want to pass such a law that will enable craftsmen and small entrepreneurs to have proper business conditions. In that direction and the opinion of the Committee and of the Committee on Justice and the Committee on the Constitution when it comes to this Law, where it is called into question the restriction of equality of freedom, etc., I find it quite questionable and that this one is tense, one... interpretation of the Law. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And I think that this proposal that's ahead of us that's also got a lot of uncertainty in it, but I think that one good basis, that we're going to come up with one solution that would mean, which would mean a new quality in small craftsmen's status. Many, quite a number of amendments ahead of us, I can say that it points to the fact that the motionary, that the Government and the Minister will have to take into account the duration of this session of the Parliament, we hope that we will come up with such a solution that we will be able to reach by consensus. I personally submitted a fixed number of amendments in the first row with one fact that in a proposal that is before us in one way are treated the premises owned by the Republic of Croatia and in another the premises owned by units of local self-government. Just when it comes to the lease, since there is one analogy when it comes to the lease itself and the area owned by the state, and the space owned by the units of local self-government, I also think it would be necessary in my head when it comes to the sale, when it comes to the sale of business space that should pull the parallel between the proposals relating to the space owned by the Republic of Croatia and also the spaces that are... owned by local self-government units. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, in this direction, I have proposed certain amendments but I cannot accept the fact proposed by the applicant and it concerns Article 5, Article 33 will be sold. In fact, I believe that this proposal, which is in some way, is sufficient for the tenant to apply for the government, or the state where it is the owner of the business space to be brought into one situation that there is no choice that this business space must be sold. My proposal is that those words be deleted and that, instead of them, the words “can be sold”. Because the government is in certain situations, and local self-government units must, they can also have their own plans when it comes to certain business spaces. So I can't be put into this law in a situation that they simply have to sell those spaces. All in all this law that is before us and we've talked a lot about is, in my assessment, when it comes to selling, I think whether it can be treated in this bill, that it should not be special, to pass a special law "legal specialis" when it comes to selling a business space rather than that it can be treated in a lease, in the lease of business space and I hope, I hope that the Proposer will also consider the possibility of what concerns the space owned by the Republic of Croatia that the same provisions of application to units of local, units of local self-government. I'd also like to draw attention to the article... a law on which "de facto" we in the discussion didn't talk much, that it remains the same as, in law and stands, but there is already one particular freedom of the local self-government units that from, to certain acts of the competent authorities, parts of the streets and streets in which certain crafts will be carried out, and these spaces are owned by units of local self-government. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I would eventually suggest the following. I think that all of this that the Proposer has made should take into account that the possibility of being first read, or that all these amendments that have been proposed to try to integrate into the law in question should be considered, so that, within the next few days or during this session, these sessions could be given to such a law that we can vote on at the session. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24434	Thank you very much. We're moving on with an individual debate. Next is representative Jelena Pavicicic-Vukicevic. Here's my colleague Vukičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24435	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, Your Honor. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs. Here in this meeting of the Croatian Parliament we have discussed the subject of the lease of business space, i.e. the sale of business space and owned by the state and owned by units of local self-government. Since we're already in, I'm saying, already by the fact that we're discussing it the second time that we've already said a lot of things about both renting and selling business space, let me actually say something about this bill in just a few short lines. I believe that the sale of business space, given the noble objectives, of the noble intentions of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, should nevertheless be reconsidered precisely because this law does not provide for conditions, does not provide for a way in which this business space will also be sold. Such a provision of this Law, therefore, that the regulation will prescribe that such a business space will be sold, I consider that provision completely arbitrary, which in some way enables an inadmissible monopolist influence of the Government of the Republic of Croatia or of the Competent Ministry, because we do not actually know the conditions now when it is time to discuss it and in this way we cannot actually discuss the correctness of such conditions. I believe that the quality proposal of the law should also go with the terms and conditions of the sale of business space in order for these conditions to continue, since it is owned by the Croatian State, that these conditions should be known, that these conditions should also be discussed in some way so that the public may also influence the conditions which can also then be applied to the sale of business premises owned by local self-government units. On behalf of the SDP Club, it is already said that the sale of a business space owned by a state unit of local self-government means, in a way, both the denial of both the state and the local environments from the purpose of the space itself. The next day you can close your trade, you can sell that business space to someone else, and in this way no one can influence what is going to happen in that business space. Let me just remind you today that this has been resolved in a way that certain committees prescribe activities that can be carried out in a given space, and that the change of activity in that space, in particular in the case of units of local self-government, must actually be decided on by the city's headship, this means any other headship. This means, in fact, that the public is also involved in making such decisions as is absolutely necessary. So it sells that, on the one hand, but on the other hand, we all have some interest, interest in certain craftsmen, certain craftsmen, are encouraged, and I think we'll find it difficult to encourage them if we sell the space, and then it becomes the subject of some new sales. I definitely consider it a violation of the right of units of local administration and self-government which is definitely what it means and that we are moving away from our desire that this country be a decentralised state and that somehow the state has a relatively mild impact on things that concern the local environment. As regards the very issue of hiring, or this proposal, that, if the former representative participates in a public competition, he will be able to become the tenant of the business space again at the lowest price. I also believe that it is a provision that is relatively problematic, however, given the fact that we also damage the budgets of local self-government units and that, nevertheless, the right to do so should have just the municipal, urban and county heads when determining, in determining the things that concern just filling the local, local budget. Finally, to look back on what has been said so far about the relationship of nationalised ones, then denationalised spaces. For example, the city of Zagreb can be very clear that in fact in the city center, the denationalisation of a large amount of space has been returned to former owners where the state could end these proceedings and that, in fact, a lot of craftsmen, just out of some traditional occupations, are left without their business space or are in very bad relations with the owners, so the question is how will their fate end. But it is also true that in the city of Zagreb because of the great construction, because what is simply expanding, the city is lush, that there is enough space and owned by the city of Zagreb itself and that the city of Zagreb can definitely sell if it wants to, or that it can, under certain special conditions also give certain categories of craftsmen and entrepreneurs space under more favourable conditions. I therefore believe that the unit of local self-government should have a greater impact and that, in my opinion, it is not only correct to prescribe by the Government regulation, but also that the terms of sale should be decided by the Croatian Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24436	Thank you very much, colleague. The next is representative Frano Matušić. Here you go, my colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24437	I would like to thank Madam Vice President, dear Madam Minister, dear colleagues and fellow MPs, we have a proposal for a law that is really short by the number of my articles and I do not intend to deal with it any longer, at least not in the current part of the debate. But I want to point out a few facts that can be achieved by observing the relationship by studying this law. First of all, it is quite clear that this law expresses the goodwill of the proposings to encourage the development of a small economy and to ensure survival on the market for these economic operators, the small economy entities which make up the largest number of total economic operators. According to data, more than half of the total number of employees in the Republic of Croatia were employed. So this good intention is indeed to be read from this bill. However, of course I agree with all those who have made their remarks on certain articles, and this applies primarily to the public tender process, so on Article 4 and also to the sale of these business premises owned by the Republic of Croatia. Earlier, counterpart Cain, who is unfortunately no longer in the assembly, said that the government puts this proposal in the discriminatory position of those tenants of the small economy, those who deal with small economic tenants who are in areas owned by cities and municipalities. So local and regional self-government. Compared to those in the areas owned by the state of Croatia. And then what about those areas where they're small-sized and private-owned. Then what are the solutions to offer, should we renationalize all the prosthetics and then all the spaces have one owner again? Obviously, that would be the most fair thing for Mr. Caine. Of course, such a solution is inappropriate and that is to overcome the solution we unfortunately had until 1990. And experience from it and today we simply learn from these experiences, and the simple consequences are how long-term and we still overcome them and we try to overcome them in this way by amending and supplementing these laws. Certainly the very fact that it is a large number of employees in small economic operators is enough to conclude that we are being followed today by a number of small businessmen and that they are indeed looking for what is best for them. We must also not really infiltrate the rights of local self-government that owns all these spaces and have positive examples of where local self-government reacts well according to my personal conviction. And buys some of the business premises some private women sell. Of course they buy them so they can secure as much budget as possible for their activities. So for the activities of the local self-government itself. And in that sense, I see nothing wrong with the fact that local self-government itself increases the number of business spaces in its city, in its municipality in its county. And that is how it actually encourages the development of a small economy because these same spaces will offer to those who want to engage in certain activities. It also raises the general question and competition or competition among the small economy entities themselves. Hypothetically, we can ask if we put in a more privileged position a small economy subject who in this way and we allow them to stay in that space. One that can be competed by a small business operator who deals with the same activity. So who might be more quality in his offer but can't get to the same part of the attractive space. So this is a purely hypothetical question that could be discussed a lot. But I say I accept all the suggestions that came from the presidents of the HDZ Club and the DCA especially fellow Bitunjec who gave his amendment. I don't think it should be so strict that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has to sell those premises, but that they can be sold under certain conditions. Where there's really real interest. But here's what I find most important is the need to protect truly traditional crafts, the old craftsman. So what makes one look at one environment really interesting is that it makes one identity of one location and really makes one location, one city, one local self-government recognizable to the others. I think it's just important to encourage local self-government to protect traditional crafts to protect old crafts that are in extinction. Because that's how we best protect the interests and interests of ourselves and the interests of local self-government. In this regard, it seems to me that it should be a little more precise to define which entities of the small economy should be protected in this way to help them by direct contract with representatives of local self-government continue to carry out their work in those areas. Here I think I also want to look back on the statement of a colleague of the Ferencek representative of the HNS Club, who also spoke of some kind of copying. Of course, it is not about the prescribed law, and the fact is that a colleague, Ferencak, in a party that has had an opportunity over the past four years, is simply to make one quality proposal to amend and supplement the law. And there was no reason not to do it in the past. It is obviously politics on the other hand, or politics on his part, when today tries to teach us lessons. The more we see in the very explanation of this law, the more we point to the danger that if this law is not complemented in the proposed way, at least further improved, it might be possible to close the turns of several thousand craftsmen to close the turns. In particular, in the city of Zagreb, the number of 1500 craftsmen is being warned. So here we all really need to think carefully about how to promote the development of a small economy. How we protect what we need to protect, what we need to protect, what we are called to protect. And I think that with these proposals today and this debate today, we are really going to come up with that optimal solution to the satisfaction of all those who work, who deal with the small economy. And I believe the owner of the space.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24438	Thank you very much, dear colleague. We have one replica of Mršić. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24439	Thank you very much. So I cannot agree with the thesis of fellow Matusic that opposition MPs should not have a legislative initiative because there is everything we could do in the past 4 years or I don't know how many years. Then we could tell me why you didn't do it from 90th to 2001. So the original right of each representative is a legislative initiative. This does not even have any obstacles because any MP can propose a new law. And that's one of the basics of our business. Why something hasn't been done is another question, maybe that's why we lost the election. But don't keep telling us again and again why we didn't do something. Especially do not repeat why you have not done something about what you promised Croatian citizens to do. As is the direct choice of mayor and mayor. Therefore, the original right and obligation of each representative is a legislative initiative. And don't hold us back in that. Don't tell us we can't or don't know what, it's not moral to do it because someone's been in power for four years. Because that would no longer be necessary we could do anything in four years. In some four years you do. And there would no longer be a need, except to comply with European laws now in the accession process. But we now have a situation that we have replaced three times the law that was passed in this assembly of parliaments, the Law of Design, the work of the government. So why didn't the government bring it in? I don't know when, so it shouldn't be changed. Not what changes it every three months when it's about to secure a new personnel solution or replace someone. Therefore, they cannot accept the claim that representatives from any club or government or opposition are being held back in their fundamental rights and obligations. And that's a legislative initiative.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24440	Thank you very much, colleague. You've spent the most time. Replicate reply by representative Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24441	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, my colleague Mršić obviously didn't listen well to what I was saying. Obviously, it would be good if he looked at the stenogram and found out what I really said. I have not disputed at any time, nor disputed any right to what is the fundamental right here in the Parliament, it is of course that any MP can make his proposal and that it can be debated, etc. You know how. So you made a completely wrong statement at the beginning of your own replica, that I contest that right. No, I'm just saying that a colleague of Ferenchk who had a pre-debate on behalf of the HNS Club honors us that we've prescribed something. No, we didn't prescribe anything. And just like that, he said that his ideas and ideas of his ideas and ideas of his party could have been much easier to achieve when his party was in power. But he obviously didn't have a wish or a vision, and he didn't want to. So, he, his party and their partners, and that's what you SDP just didn't want to talk about at all, right? And put it on the agenda. No matter what such suggestions were to put it on the agenda. In that sense, it was my debate, not in terms of disputing your right, because it certainly can neither come nor need to come, nor do I want to. So listen to me carefully for the second time.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24442	Thank you very much. We've already established the material, I think. We can move on. The next is MP Miroslav Korenik. Here you go, fellow representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24443	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Here, I'm still going to have to get a little polemic with my predecessor who was blocking the replica of his colleague, Mrs. Gristle. The fact is also, for example, this Law that the government is in a kind of defensive, because after it was two, one opposition, one from the majority coalition of the bill on, exactly which one speaks of this matter, in the first reading. And after the government, or parliamentary majority, has released the second reading of the DC Club proposal, it seems somewhat humiliating to me for their coalition partner that suddenly the government is going with its proposal, and I am assessing it in writing and doing it badly. That's pretty bad. She didn't even copy the DC thing she put into the second reading, she took something pretty unnervingly from what the HNS suggested. However, when we talk about the bill, I must say that it seems to me, and I am convinced that this law is unconstitutional. Because the fact is that units of local self-government or local and regional self-government are guaranteed under the Constitution, i.e. they are guaranteed the right to self-government. It is also guaranteed the right of ownership in this country. That's why I'm going to show for example why I think the law is unconstitutional. It seems to me, when we talk about Article 6, about the amendments in Article 6a. And here I support all those who, on equal terms, are those who are currently on lease, on equal terms, if the price is quoted in the competition higher, then the contract can be concluded with him. Why am I saying that? When I say that the units of local self-government are according to the Constitution, that is, their property rights are guaranteed, but the units of local self-government and they own their own business premises, to get as much rent as possible from them. That's what competitions do. If we look at Article 6a. Why even go to the competition if the initial lease accepts the one inside? Why are we making local self-government units an extra cost? Well, they've had enough of us here in Parliament often uncritically enough obligations and unsecured funds. Now all of a sudden, we're going to impose that ad that's costing them something. On the other side of the unit of local self-government most often, so cities and municipalities, they have business premises in their own possession, the county quite less or very rarely and they buy business premises with the intention of earning money. For example, the town of Varazdin, here is Mr. Chehok, but to commend something the city of Varazdin does, units of local self-government are very concerned about what twists will develop in its area. There are a number of crafts for which there is an interest in cities and municipalities, these are usually traditional ones, to be in the strictest center of the city, because otherwise in competitions they simply don't stand a chance next to these shops, banks and everything else. And in this way cities and municipalities will take care of development, part of the development of entrepreneurship. The natural thing is that you can take care of it in a way that even the rents are lower, that the process of the company is lower and everything else that is in the domain of the local self-government unit. However, go on to make a commitment that must be the starting price, and by the way I ask who and how will determine the starting price. These days we are very much talking about conflict of interest and myth and corruption in Croatian society. If a low starting price is prescribed, there is no bigger story than that someone put the money in their pocket, this is what fellow Cain said about it. Therefore, if we are already talking about the law, then it would be most normal from the point of view of good management of business spaces, which is conditional upon the units of local self-government and the Constitution and where ownership is defined, to go to a public tender and that business space can be obtained by an existing tenant if he accepts the highest offer. Because that's what the public competition is all about. On the one hand, that everyone has the opportunity, and on the other, to achieve the highest price for the owner. Because I think a colleague from Dubrovnik also talked about what would happen to us then with private-owned business spaces, and they're on the lease. I mean, then, we also have to give them the highest price, and that way, if we don't have the highest price, there's no fair game. And that's what we need to talk about. We've discriminated against someone in advance, and we've given someone the opportunity to do it better. Therefore, I ask and how we will achieve, we have now passed this Law, or we will bring it, which is a message to the units of local self-government in the Republic of Croatia to go into the purchase of new business spaces, if they cannot achieve the most price in competitions. Then there's no point. Why buy something that'll be on the threshold of their rentability? The other thing I'm saying is, I agree with all those who say the Republic of Croatia can, but it doesn't have to sell business space. And it seems to me that the government should also have a strategy to make available to its business premises if there are. And the government probably now has no need for some business prosotrim, but in due course they will. Therefore, I am an advocate to not be imperative, but to be able to sell business premises owned by the Republic of Croatia, but to be defined here in the Croatian Parliament, which are criteria, what are the conditions and the way sales will be done. Dear ladies and gentlemen, the Croatian Parliament is sitting and I don't understand why regulations should solve something, because regulations solve certain legal areas or certain needs of the moment when the Parliament does not meet. The Council is sitting and there is no valid reason not to say or define the conditions under which the Government will sell its business premises on behalf of the State, as I would like to, and I suggest, to define what is the orderly execution of its obligations. Because there's always a possibility, and there's a possibility that we can declare someone that he's done his business duties neatly, and if he didn't, contracts are often written as they are, and there wouldn't be any possibility of abuse or false interpretations, I think that would be a good idea to define the amendments to this law. Therefore, in my deep conviction, this law is unconstitutional in one part, in the other part it is against a real game of competition. In addition, in Article 6 of the amending and supplementing this law, it seems to me that the new law always applies, if it is in favour of those to whom it applies, I will also support the amendment that speaks of the application of the provisions or that the competitions are concluded by law that is more favourable to those participating in the competition. And that's often the past, the law we're changing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24444	Thank you very much, colleague. We have two corrections of incorrect allegations and one replica. Shall we do the replica first? By the way, I'm a bit of a rep. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24445	Well, here's the thing, colleague Korenko said, and he didn't exactly argue in his presentation, that this bill is counter-constitutional, de facto he any kind of intervention if I could sort of read from what he said, any state intervention in any segment of the economy, or even in a small craftsmanship when it comes to the lease and sale of business spaces he considers to be an incursion in the constitutional rights of others. I would not agree with that and my opinion is also that it is questionable that the highest lease should be the one that will in some way be a determining factor in the lease either when it comes to the business space owned by the state, or if it is about ownership, of a business space owned by units of local self-government. I just think that what the Chamber of Commerce has submitted and craftsmen through it is exactly the government's proposal, because when it comes to the lease of business space on the trail. But he would certainly still take this opportunity to take advantage of that segment when it comes to selling business space, he must not, he must in some way be in a condicional, not forced into the state by the tenants. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24446	Thank you very much, colleague. Replication response, Agent Korenik. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24447	Here's a chance to explain it one more time. A respected colleague, a local self-government unit, a city called x y, wants to get as much money as possible from a business space rent. This limits it, since it is defined as having to accept the initial lease. It's unconstitutional because, the ownership right is the right to earn money from the rent. The state, municipality or city is owned by Miroslav Korenika, we have basically equal treatment. The state may, by decision of this Parliament, decide on its property, but not on the property of cities and municipalities, because it is a second level of governance and ownership. So, if you don't understand it, that's another thing, but the fact is, and it's undeniable that units of local self-government must behave with a good master. In this way, it makes it impossible for them to do so.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24448	Thanks a lot, buddy. The first correction of the incorrect quote, MP Piploić. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24449	I'd like to correct the inaccuracies of an esteemed colleague. He said approximately that the DC was humiliating how the government took over our proposal. I answer that for the Democratic Centre it is not humiliating that the government has taken over, on the contrary, we are proud that our initiative has been taken over by the Government and has clearly led to the final draft of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24450	Thank you very much. Please don't throw it out of the bench. There are tables. The next correction to the incorrect quote, MP Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24451	Madam Vice President, my colleague, Corenika, incorrectly said that the government under Article 5 should adopt a regulation with legal force. It is not a regulation with a legal force, but a regulation as a sublegal regulation, although I agree in this part that it should be dealt with under the Law on Mandatory Relations, not under this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24452	Thank you very much. We can move on. An individual debate. Representative Zvonimir Mršić. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24453	Thank you. Dear Vice President, Your Honors Minister. This law is absolutely unacceptable to me, because it completely and roughly penetrates the autonomy of local self-government. I do not dispute and as a representative of the right of the state to determine, regulate, prescribe, pass laws that will be done with my property, but I deny her the right as mayor to do so with the ownership of units of local self-government. The ownership of units of local self-government is property like any other property and no one has the right to decide what the local self-government unit will do with that property. I would prefer to discuss today the Deetatisation of Ownership of Local Self-Government Units Act because in the 1990s and 93s, an overall etatization of the vast majority of what the citizens have done with their own self-dependence took place. In their municipalities, citizens built schools, hospitals, roads, public buildings. The state has established this. Today, the state calls it decentralisation immodestly. It can't be called decentralisation, it's simply called deetatisation because the state has to return to the citizens what the citizens have done with their money, not even money, with tax money, but with purposely segregated money from self-delivery. And the state doesn't want to do that, but now it wants to prescribe that and what little ownership the units of local self-government have, that it decides how and at what price it's going to be, at which price it's being sold. There's a whole series of reasons why this law is unacceptable to local self-government. First of all, he is contrary to the Charter of Local Self-Government adopted by this House. Because the Charter of Local Self-Government says local self-government units must be asked and consulted on all those laws affecting these units of local self-government. This law has a rough impact on local self-government units because it determines what future income units of local self-government will be and whether they will be at all, whether they will be single or will be continued. Furthermore, this law is contrary to the Law on Local Self-Government, because the Law on Local Self-Government gives exclusive rights to the heads of the local self-government units and one of the five rights and powers which have the headships to manage and dispose of property and property owned by local self-government units. So no one but the chieftains has the right. And the headship is responsible for incomes and expenditures of local self-government units, and one cannot prescribe what income units of local self-government will be, in particular from this segment, which we can say that some of the original incomes of local self-government units, where the local self-government unit can do what colleagues talked about, buy business premises, in order to achieve greater future revenues can sell these business premises to achieve the current large revenues to finance some capital projects, or it can simply rent the business premises of the one it has and achieve some permanent continuous income of local self-government units. The incomes from property in the world are significant revenues from local self-government units, but in the world, the state does not allow itself to determine how units of local self-government will manage this property because the units of local self-government are themselves and acquired. Of course, if this isn't about nationalized spaces, because at some point nationalized spaces will, I hope, be completed by a denationalisation process and will come to that, or will be returned to former owners, or will remain owned by units of local self-government. Next, we're only talking about business spaces here. If we're so worried about craftsmen, then why don't we ask ourselves what's wrong with the public surfaces? What about the markets? I assure you that in certain cities it is harder to reach a booth on the market, that it is more expensive to get to a stand on the market than to a square of space on the central city square in the same city. Then why don't we prescribe it for public areas and markets? But when some unit of local self-government today just to protect agricultural producers from its own area and craftsmen from its own area, it wants to prescribe that the market stands will be leased by the first purchase system, then it's legally impossible, then you can't do that. There must be a bid or a public tender, there must be accepted the highest bidder. When it comes to caring for craftsmen, it should be said that a much greater obstacle to the development of craftsmanship creates long-term bankruptcy proceedings and court proceedings related to fiduciary property involved in these bankruptcy proceedings. Take a look at the example of "Brodommer" and "Source". how blocked business spaces in Rijeka and Koprivnica are in this fiduciary relationship. Business premises are issued for six months, rented for six months. Who can make a serious business plan for six months? But that's not what we're worried about, so we can end it and do it. Secondly, why don't we make sure that we end the denationalisation process as soon as possible, that those whose property was to get those premises, and that those who have to come out of them find another solution and thus develop their business activities. These are far greater obstacles than to order, by law, what units of local self-government will do with the little property they have. Who does this law apply to? This law is not just about what someone here said, poor craftsmen. This law applies therefore to micro-entities and small entities. Micro-entities are entrepreneurs, so businesses and craftsmen with up to 10 employees. Small entities are those with up to 50 employees or other criteria, but do not have more than 16 million kuna total annual revenues. I'm sorry, it's already a serious entrepreneur who has 50 employees. A very, very serious entrepreneur who has 16 million kuna incomes, annual incomes. God forbid we have a lot of such small entrepreneurs with so many employees and so much income. But again, the question arises what about the one who has 51 employees, which is with the one who is 53 in the year in which he will be leased, because he has just secured the possibility of development. What about everyone else? What about the big one? What about humanitarian organizations? What about others in the premises of local self-government or state? Why can't they buy those rooms, too? It seems to me that this law was written because of Zagreb, so the problem is some kind of Zagreb, so the state says let's solve Zagreb now, and then we'll say it's not for Zagreb, but for all units of local self-government. In Zagreb, 400 thousand square meters of business space is currently being built. The annual need in Zagreb for a new business space is about 40,000 square meters. It is therefore expected that the price of renting a business space in Zagreb will fall. Not only that, we have a situation that the company that was so far owned by the state, HT, or Tecom, while it was state-owned and had its own property and had its own property. Today Tecom sees that it's expensive for him to sell his own properties and go to a place he'll rent. So the developed world where entrepreneurship and the market economy are more developed, entrepreneurs prefer to enter particularly service activities into the premises in the lease and not to have them in their possession and ultimately burden the balance and have some other problems. And what I want to say in the end is that it seems to me that this law opens up space and corruption, because instead of a public tender institute, this law introduces the institute of agreement. Agreements between the chieftains and between the leaders of the units of local self-government and craftsmen and entrepreneurs on the initial price. There is no need for what counterpart Korenika said, that we are investing 5, 7, 10 thousand kuna in a public tender ad if we know that this space will be given to a craftsman at the agreed price in advance and that the rent price for this space that will pay the ad 10 thousand kuna will be, say, 500, 600 or 1,000 kuna per month, i.e. that the annual rent will be lower than the price of the ad. So I would ask the government to correct the proposal, to define what should be done with state property that needs to be discussed, but don't touch the units of local self-government, leave her with some ownership, and please give her back what was 90 and 93 taken away. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24454	Thank you very much, dear colleague. We have one correction to an incorrect quote. Representative Kovacevic, come in. ... It's funny I didn't see yellow. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24455	Mr. Mršić said nicely, ownership is property and it is an undeniable situation. The state means they can't commit cities, municipalities, counties what they'll do with their property. This means he cannot order that he must sell or that he must rent his own business space. But Mr. Lobster, where does the state have to react? The state must prescribe if municipalities, cities and counties lease it, as well as in what manner of procedure, means that this would be legal. Also, if they are to go, they are to be decided for sale, they must also prescribe how and how these sales will be carried out. In that part, that's the sequel to what you've agreed. For the sake of legal certainty of citizens and for the protection and equality of all by law, the state must lay down rules on how and in what situation it will be handled. What is the competition, which is the right of first purchase, who can participate and all that is important in order to ensure the legal certainty of citizens. And now we come to one part of the other. We're not gonna solve the problem of craftsmen and small and medium-sized enterprises just by business spaces. We have to deal with this tax policy. Tax policy in a way that will give them incentives, incentives, deals, because we need to be aware that all of our classical craftsmanships are at peace with us. Where you have who will fix your umbrella. Where's the chimney? Where are your pots? Where you have a lot of stuff, we go to Prague and we see. So it can be taxed in a way that for the first two years they are released, because that way we will give another extra swing, but I say property is owned, but if it goes into variants, the state has to prescribe how and how it will be handled for legal certainty. So it's just an addition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24456	Thank you very much, colleague. Replication response, colleague Mršić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24457	Well, I think it's the property of the local self-government unit, and as property it's defined by the laws. The laws of ownership and other real rights, I think that's what it's called, the Law of Mandatory Relations and others. Therefore, there is no need for the state to prescribe some third law ownership of units of local self-government. The European Charter has just defined that local self-government units can manage their properties, ways of acquisition and availability. But I believe, not to believe, I know a lot of good examples where units of local self-government are very concerned about traditional crafts where they are very concerned about the development of craftsmanship through a variety of benefits, not the release but the payment of communal fees on behalf of craftsmen, the payment of communal contributions on behalf of craftsmen, the subsidisation of the rent in the name of craftsmen so that craftsmen can do business, because I believe that the units of local self-government recognise much better what their interest is, and also the interest of those craftsmen, because these crafts are also citizens of a particular unit of local self-government than they can be seen from Mark's square. I really think there's a lot of it, some people think you can see it better from Mark's square than from a certain town square. And let's just say once that local self-government is autonomous, that it has its own incomes and that it can dispose of them. Both city councils and city heads and mayors were chosen by the people just as we were elected here in the Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24458	Thank you very much. Another replica. Mr. Korenik's representative, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24459	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, the unquestionable fact is that if the state wants to take more care of craftsmen, then it should give itself more favourable or very favourable loans to buy a business space, it would be the right way. And in addition, it seems to me that by prescribing in my opinion unnecessary competitions in case whoever's in there already has the right to gain business space at the lowest price right now, he's certainly taking care of the development of the People's Newspaper and, I think, the Vesnika. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24460	Thank you very much. You have the right to reply to the replica, Mršić. You're giving up. Thank you very much. She answered for the word, Minister, Proposer's representative, Vesna Škare-Ozbolt. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24461	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, I really didn't mean to report until the end of the debate, but since the debate went a little wrong, let me do some things again. So this matter Proposal to amend and supplement the Law that is before you in one whole way regulates matter of business space, so also rent when it comes to units of local administration and self-government and sales, when it comes to space owned by the state. And there is no violation of the Constitution or the Law on local administration and self-government. In fact, it was from the SDP Club that the objection was made to why there was no law on the lease and sale of business space in the title. So we are just changing the existing Law with a new Proposal and the article 1 shows you the real title of the law, the Law on the Hire and Sales of Business Space. Therefore, if someone writes an amendment in that sense, it is unnecessary. We have concentrated here and there have been a lot of words on the subject of a small economy, craftsmanship, so exactly this law, this bill is going to make it easier for the lives of 100,000 craftsmen and another 180 thousand employees. We will all agree that this is an important part of Croatia's economic system and that this very development of this part needs to be of particular interest to our country. The tradesmen are finally brought into an equal position with all other citizens and economic operators, as well as employees of companies, former social property, who were able to acquire shares through the purchase of the Law on the Conversion of Social Enterprises, or the Law on Privatisation, acquired the right of ownership of those companies, or citizens who, in accordance with the Law on Compensation of Assets, were able to purchase apartments during the communist rule. And while the reform package in the area of housing and management of business space is the exception of resolving business space issues used by craftsmen and other small economy entities, I remind you of the large ones being resolved by conversion and privatisation, we felt that it was necessary at least to enable re-rents who have concluded a lease agreement for business space owned by units of regional and local self-government, and a ransom for business premises owned by the Republic of Croatia. And what is visible from this debate is asking us as a question, is the current tenants to whom the deadline is due, for which a contract is concluded on the lease of a business space is left to the market in a way that the tenant may terminate the contract, or give them some kind of support that they can continue their business normally? We have proposed to allow the tenants to continue their business in the business premises where they are currently working and listening to your proposals, we will accept and go with the amendment that the tenant before the deadline on which the contract was concluded offers the conclusion of a new lease contract, first of all to the current tenant of the business space that executes the obligations of the lease contract, therefore, pays the orderly rent, and only if the current tenant would not accept such an offer would the tenant call for a public tender. And that's what we're going to do as an amendment. So there were more variations. In any case, the right of the championship remains in all the proposed variations that you have proposed, and in this way we will definitely remove the danger for craftsmen that exist under the current law, that in this year, many of them will be forced to close their crafts. The second is how to deal with the business space issue in the longer term, Article 5. The law allows current tenants who, according to the Law on the Encouragement of Small Economy, are micro or macro-entities of a small economy, therefore, to buy a business space owned by the Republic of Croatia. So, as I said, this is how the question of the business space of craftsmen and small entrepreneurs that have been unwarranted so far has finally been regulated in all the housing reform packages and business space management. And of course, the terms and procedures for the sale of business space will be regulated by the government, the state, to now sell business premises in this way, we hold to make it even better and more transparent and thus will meet in this part of the craftsmen and entrepreneurs. That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24462	Thank you very much, Madam Minister. We have two corrections to incorrect allegations. The first came to the correction by representative Jelena Vukičević-Pavic. Here you go, pal.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24463	Thank you very much. Here, I would have a correction, Madam Minister, you said that this is actually the kind of sales of business space that sort of solves one injustice as far as the tenants themselves are concerned because, in the same way, the sale of apartments is resolved and in fact all citizens of the Republic of Croatia, which would correspond to the truth that the state has taken care of the status of a protected tenant. But as for the possible purchase of apartments, or those that were owned by the state, the problem has not been solved until the end, so the problem will not be solved until the end precisely because some will be able to buy a business space although we do not know on what terms, and others will not be able to buy a business space because they are not in a business space owned by a state, or unit of local self-government. Therefore, by selling the business space, these very tenants will be placed in an even more unequal position than they are today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24464	Thank you very much. Another correction. Agent Lesar, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24465	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, I'd just like to correct this statement from the Minister's office that the proposed law will be resolved and taken to protect small entrepreneurs. With this amendment that you have now announced, I believe yes, but the very text of the proposed Law would not. And if the government is going with the amendment in this direction, I suggest you, please, consider continuing the amendment. This right is also achieved by the possibility that, by not prescribing the activities that can be carried out in the business space, local self-government should be prescribed on the permitted activity in that area and thus leased in the contract, because through the non-registration of the activity that can be carried out in the business space, there may be a new area of corruption that makes it easier for circumstances to rent, and that there will be another activity inside tomorrow, if we want to protect citizens' interests through activities in particular in the city's centres. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24466	Thank you very much, colleague. You have partially corrected the incorrect allegations, but under the application for correction of the incorrect quote you have actually entered into the debate. It's a good debate, but we'd better stick to the Rules of Procedure. We won't go with the warnings. Next up is MP Krunoslav Markovovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24467	Well, I mean, first of all, maybe a word about the need to pass the law. We all know that our craftsmen aren't all at this time because of our imports, clearly, large imports of goods, that they're not very competitive anymore. So, financial incompetence certainly is very important here because it's very easy to push those who are far better quoted today. You should talk a little bit about maybe the kind of business space. We're talking about it, and the need is actually to protect those who have the most difficulty, and there are, again, craftsmen who don't go well, and we have, and we're actually passing a law that we might be aware of for all the trades, for all the activities, because it's not the same as whether it's a Sixh umbrella or hats, or if it's a coffee shop or a store, I say again with a wave of import goods, we see them all over the center, or maybe some well-supervised restaurant that needs to be supported, and that's why we have to really make a difference here too. What I would like to point out here is the slowdown of the return of the locals, the owners, these joints were taken away clearly during the 40th year, during the communist rule, and in recent years somehow I have a feeling that this has slowed down. It certainly prolongs the uncertainty of the tenants, but I think ownership still has an advantage. Here, let's say I've also had an heiress, five joints in the center of Zagreb, Masarykova, Tesla has been stalling for years, there are tenants in there who even threaten, that if one day he gets no chance, he'll drive her out and stuff like that. As well as one heir whose parents even liquidated when they took away a place in Virovitica, two bars are already standing for a few years to resolve, although with local self-government everything is done, it stands again at the Ministry, so please Madam Secretary of State and Minister that it actually speeds up because it seems to me that there will then be more locals on the market and uncertainty will be less. The proposed law would not agree that it was a very heartless theft because we finally had a chance to talk about past laws, a law that was HSS somehow more forced me to do something. So, forced alienation of local self-government and administration units, which is not. Instead of trusting in local self-government and administration units, it is immediately a negative attitude towards them, because if a craftsman is given favourable conditions and what should be, you know what we're talking about, then it can be corruption and the like, but former ministers have four years of furniture to their companies, then it's in accordance with the regulations. The interest of local self-government is good business and income, but the interest in surviving traditional crafts and low-productive crafts, so let's leave the evaluations to those same units of local self-government. It is also a strange question of what the government has to do with it, so the government has a duty to propose laws and to adopt regulations to improve the functioning of the economy and crafts industry so as to doubt that the legislation will actually be against entrepreneurship, so it will finally not cut the branch on which it sits. The proposed law needs to be completed, it can be improved by amendments, I would personally prefer that the word "can" be found more often than "must" be found in the text, because local self-government and administration should be allowed to assess the importance of self-defense by taking on such responsibility both morally and politically for decisions made but the law that will enable it is also necessary. The public tender can be fair but not necessarily, I can tell you a whole series of examples where the public tender has so many conditions to come down to two companies from these two companies is with one agreement that it will not enter into a competition that large public companies do accordingly, it is not all in the public tender and in these and in public tenders it is certain that coffee shops, shops, import goods will squeeze out craftsmen and entrepreneurs, and it is for them that we are bringing this Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24468	Thank you very much, counsel. Next up, MP Joseph Leko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24469	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, Madam Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Namely, the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the lease of business space for me raises three questions. As a lawyer, the first question is legal, and from the point of view of the legal point of view, it is questionable whether the law can survive at all. In fact, the Constitution of Article 50 states that the law can limit or confiscate property in the interest of the Republic of Croatia. The bill certainly limits ownership because the content of ownership is available and manageable and we here prescribe that the owner should do so, and we do not determine the interest of the Republic of Croatia for each owner when we restrict his right. So it's probably not possible to solve it this way. The issue from the economic aspect has a resonance because it really needs to encourage entrepreneurship and craftsmanship with several aspects, the aspect of development in general, employment and development, but also from the point of view of the needs of craftsmen in cities. Why am I stressing that? In fact, the development of craftsmanship isn't just an economic issue sometimes it's a communal question, a social issue, you just have to have a certain kind of craftsman in town. How does the law regulate that matter? Non-selective, so according to this Act, it's the same as whether it's in the lease of casinos or carpenters. Whether it's a bookie or a carpenter, it's our relationship to the needs of entrepreneurs and craftsmen. Simply from that point of view, we come up with a third problem, whether the Law is social, when it says in general you'll have to lease on the same terms and look at something else, we... number of craftsmen this way. We simply say who is now in the lease will get more favourable terms, and you who want to do crafts are to go to market and buy or buy a business space and you have to succeed in the competition. So he's not even fair. Then we're not all the same under the law, especially not in the face of incentives and privileges. Let's get back to the legal issue. Neither the law nor the Constitution distinguishes who is the circulatory holder of ownership rights, whether it is a municipality, city or state, the content of these ownership rights is the same, the obligations of these circularies are the same, indeed not possible even when it comes to state property, state property in this way to resolve sales. We would have to establish that we would limit or sell it in the interests of the Republic of Croatia because it was simply not created as a value in companies, so we would do so in comparison with the conversion and privatisation of companies. The right to shares in companies had employees and former employees, creating business spaces in cities and municipalities is really the right of those who created them, and we don't do that, exactly the opposite. The non-selective approach and restrictions that the Law and the Constitution impose on property are a good idea to encourage the development of small and medium-sized entrepreneurship and craftsmanship in this way will simply not be solved, especially not development. That is why I think it is important to enable a different way of financing local self-government and that this local self-government takes care of development in its field of particular craftsmanship. There are simply regions, regions and cities that have their tradition and their specificities in that part and needs, so you don't need a mat in every neighborhood, let's just say here in Zagreb you really already need a good craftsman who soars a horse. It's just necessary, it's necessary. Or you don't need a carpenter everywhere, you don't need a carpenter everywhere, but there are cities where there's a tradition of carpentry or cobblerry. And I don't owe it. So, from my point of view, this law has one thing in it for me to say, not to be rude, a little populist way of inciting craftsmanship, populist. Simply, let us now give to those who have them let them continue, and for those who will come let them choose for themselves. That's why I can't support it or vote to pass a law like this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24470	Thank you very much, Mr. Representative. Next up is representative Ivana Sučec-Tracostanec, please welcome colleagues.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24471	I thank Madam Vice-President and support the government's natural concern that with additional fuses it tries to help the development of small and micro-enterprises in the Republic of Croatia, I could also resort to those who think that a good part of this matter is already resolved by a number of other laws and that it is asked whether or not it should be done, but therefore, if it is further undermining the insurance and safety of small entrepreneurs, then I am that such a law is being passed in any case. But that we, as advocates, are primarily concerned about its economic, developmental, and political effects, talk about it long enough and ask the promoters for such improvements, which will then bring of course the benefits that they expect from it. And now, of course, we have these two conflicting interests of those who are already in the rooms of those who would like to enter them. Since the law is adopted for the whole state in a unique way, and different situations are in certain cities and in certain municipalities, it is difficult to reconcile these interests sometimes. And here today we kept hearing about this initial or maximum price that was finally prescribed by the Public Procurement Act. And you have a situation that in certain small environments you already have space that you can't even rent at initial prices, because you have a tax administration table that speaks, which is the minimum starting price for a certain category of business space, given the construction areas in certain parts of the city or small municipalities and that unfortunately, it scares the hunger for these premises and hunger for entrepreneurship, because it's not easy to be an entrepreneur who in a certain area where the rent is high will provide such a job, where in a difference in price or from the profit of a job he's carrying out will be able to pay all the costs in which the relatively high rent is involved. So reality is somewhere different than what we're discussing right now and what the law solves. That's why I also tend to those who think local self-government knows best what it needs, but then it should be pointed out in law when we talk about what it can and must, so that it can do something on condition that it has to, and I'm saying it has to have, therefore, a policy of making available to these premises and a strategy to develop an economy in its area, I guess a good part of the municipalities already has. Because I'm not just talking about traditional crafts, we're also talking about brand new titles and interests that people deal with, whether they're in the form of d.o.o., crafts or some other legal form where economic activity can be done, it's irrelevant today. But by this law, we only solve entrepreneurs, and we don't solve a number of other associations, institutions, or I don't know what they're also renting, they're carrying out certain activities. And why in the first place, since the property issue has been resolved today and everyone can build their own business space so much talk here today? Because we have to be aware of one thing, that in fact the owners and local self-government and state are space in the most attractive tails, so at the most and most strict center of Zagreb or any other city it is true. However, we must also bear in mind that in certain small environments, I will now underline the town of Križevci, for example, the ministry owns not a business space or building, but a whole neighborhood of the city, so we are no longer just talking about the business areas that are on a large surface, they make up a quarter city and there with both the return of space and with the sale of space will be difficult to reconcile the provisions that are very narrow and very limited and to certain segments directed from this Law. Therefore, I hope, therefore, that by listening to all of us here will keep everything in mind and so I would not open up the topic of whether every small municipality and every city can be a state in the country or all of us together and I was the head of a small municipality to be one of the entrenched friendly parts of the common system called the Croatian State and not to any law that comes from the Government, and which takes care of a small entrepreneur will be considered an attack on his property, because he is unfortunately owned by negative examples during these 80 years of the last, very conditional category and very easy to change and I am glad to assume that with this rapid denationalisation and with the full introduction of private property in any further future corruption, therefore corruption cannot be when sold or renting space between two private owners, it is only here where a country or someone else rents any private property. And I wouldn't always have corruption first on my mind, because if the municipality, city or state offers to someone who has spent their whole life in one place, who in that life fed two, three generations of their family, we talk to the hurricanes, about the goldsmiths, about some traditional other crafts, and if he offers to stay in that place under the same conditions as so far and doesn't go to a public tender, that there will be some heavy corruption, because I am undermining and I repeat, it's hard for entrepreneurs today to reconcile all those obligations imposed by both tax laws and communal taxes and, of course, taxes and contributions and rent is another additional cost to that. And that is why I hope, together with you, that before the final proposal of this Law, whether improvement with the amendments or possibly a new little bit, so to speak to the corrected proposal before us and we will vote on such a law that will benefit Croatia and Croatian entrepreneurship. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24472	Thank you very much, colleague. We have one correction to the incorrect allegations, MP Vuljanic. Here you go. Get on with it, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24473	... Inaccuracy. [[for the announcement, the speaker doesn't understand]] My colleague said that this law is an additional fuse that these things are regulated by other regulations, which is true. They are regulated, this law is not an additional fuse of nothing, but this law is a violation of the constitutional legal property of the units of local self-government. If that were the case, it also says that there is absolutely no selectivity in the bill, but the whole area is generally covered. A colleague also said the government is taking care of entrepreneurship. Of course, the government has the right to propose regulations. But never in any way contrary to the Constitution and contrary to the system laws. This is the case. And the third inaccuracy of the laws is now being passed in order to establish the rules of the game and prevent corruption. It is our duty to take care of these laws in this situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24474	Thank you very much. You're out of time. The next one's a representative, a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, buddy!
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24475	I have to say, we agreed not to correct our opinions, but it happened again. I refer to Articles 209 and 214. My opinion is opposition colleagues and has no right to correct my opinion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24476	Thank you very much. Comrade Shirac, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24477	Madam Vice President, Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The small economy is an important part of the economic system of the Republic of Croatia. A large and significant number of employees have been represented in the small economy. The business premises in which the small business is carried out are partly owned by the Republic of Croatia and are partly owned by our cities and municipalities, so local self-government units. As far as I am aware, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has almost all business premises in smaller cities and has transferred to the management of local self-government units in major cities. Therefore, there are activities that are important for the lives of citizens and, of course, for those people who carry out any crafts or small economies. There are also trades that are traditional to provide services and if through public procurement these premises were to be divided into a lease or for sale without the possibility that part of the current tenants would have the possibility of extending that lease or buying under certain benefits I believe that one large part of our traditional crafts would actually disappear. Therefore, I appreciate that the bill is on the trail of one part of the protection of the small economy and our craftsmen, but we are constantly all in the debate about some of the conditions that I need to regulate in a different way and I will be free to bring them out here. The proposal that the business premises used by our small businessmen be given under special circumstances if they meet the terms of the contract, means they have a contract, if they carry out their obligations properly and, of course, if this is the goal of the unit of the local community to continue this activity in that area, I think it should really create an opportunity for the local community to conclude an extension contract with the small economy. In the case of the sale of space, in particular the space owned by the Republic of Croatia, I think it is necessary to go to this sale of space, that for the truth or regulation, or that it would be even more appropriate by special law to regulate the conditions under which this space will be sold and under what conditions. I have worked for many years on spatial planning and urban planning and I know for sure that none of our units of local self-government or major city or the City of Zagreb have decided on the general layout of business space, so this area that we are talking about today is neither attractive zones within units of local self-government or cities, nor has it prescribed benefits under which these spaces are given precisely for those traditional crafts or crafts for which the local unit of self-government or citizens are interested, and without that we will never, in any way, solve the issue of either renting space or selling space. I have had the opportunity to see in Vienna, Munich, or in other cities that their city halls have made a decision to settle these issues. Thus, in this way they will avoid, and they have avoided the meddling that we all, in our debate, mention that there is a possibility. If a decision is made in public messengers in the city congregation, then it is a public document, and everyone knows under what conditions and conditions there can be, how they will be rented, and under what conditions these businessmen will work there. Because here you can see that even in these large cities, economic and commercial interests have not only prevailed, but it takes care of both municipal issues and of course the social aspect and approach to solving this problem. That is why I would suggest that our ministry and our government, when the First Amendment to the Law on the Communist Economy, put in place such provisions that will oblige units of local self-government to adopt such an act that regulates the issue of timetables and of course the benefits of lending such space. I think that this law, in principle, once again mentions that I support its adoption but either it needs to be regulated on sales and convenience under which it will be sold to amendments or, by my assessment, it would be even better to separate this law into two parts and that the law regulates only a matter of lease and that another law solves the issue of selling a business space. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24478	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative Rade Ivas.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24479	Dear Vice President, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues! In the legal system of the Republic of Croatia, the lease of a business space is governed by the Law on the lease of a business space. According to this law, so-called business space in so-called State ownership can only be leased through a public tender and to the highest bidder if the current representative does not stop it and the right to continue to use that space. It is certain that this provision leads to certain uncertainty among the tenants because he is not sure whether to repurchase that space after the end of the lease. One word also detimises him as a businessman to invest in that business space. The government has referred to the parliamentary procedure of the draft law on amending and supplementing the law and this bill can be observed with two aspects. From the aspect of the interest of the Republic of Croatia to develop a small economy, small entrepreneurship and also from the aspect of constitutional harmonisation of this bill. When we consider it from the point of view of the interest of stimulating a small economy, it is certainly both good and welcome. This legislative proposal encourages a craftsman to extend the lease or purchase of a business space if it is state-owned because they are determined by the right of the championship to conclude the lease agreement of that business space. On the condition that they clearly participate in the competition and accept the initial price of the rent from the tender. In this way craftsmen and small entrepreneurs get more security in the use of business space, there is no classical bidding, the initial amount of the lease from the tender would also be the final amount which encourages the tenants to further investment in those premises. It is certain that the interest of the Republic of Croatia is to encourage a small economy. The small economy is an extremely important part of the economic system of the Republic of Croatia and its development is of particular interest. In fact, craftsmanship in the development of the entire economy is one of the major segments because more than 250 thousand people are employed in this activity today. The amendments to the law are finally brought to a level playing field by craftsmen to all other branches, citizens and economic operators and employees of former social property companies who, through the purchase of shares, have acquired the right of ownership of those companies by means of the Law on the Conversion of Social Business, or the Law on Privatisation, that is to say, citizens who, in accordance with the Law on Compensation of Disposal of Assets... They could buy those spaces. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Since it's already from the reform package in... Business space housing and management should at least enable them to rerent these tenants who have contracts for the lease of a business space. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But when we look at the bill from a constitutional legal point of view, we can put a few important remarks there. The proposed provision of Article 5 is a questionable systematic legal position and the principle of the non-limiting of ownership rights and the equal legal position of all persons before the law. The proposed sale of a business space owned by the Republic of Croatia by small-scale operators is certainly placed in a more favourable or privileged position than other entities. I also believe that, in accordance with the position of the Committee on Justice, the Government, or the Proposer, will remove Chapter 4 and Article 33 of this Law, and that this issue will be regulated by a special law governing the right to regulate the sale of business premises and owned by the state and owned by units of local self-government. It also seems to me that Article 6 is also questionable from the constitutional legal point of view, since it limits entrepreneurial freedoms and ownership rights of local self-government units. In fact, I think that here, too, you should consider how to protect those trades that are deficiting, which are not in certain units of local self-government and thus enable local self-government units to keep these very deficiting interests, these interests that are not available, which are of particular interest to that local self-government unit, to allow them to retain these business premises on more favourable terms. Perhaps it would be good if they and only they could conclude a new lease agreement if they accepted the initial price, while others should be allowed to take part in the competition, to have a championship but to accept the highest price offered. I believe that the Proposer will accept these remarks and thus use this opportunity to correct this Law with its amendments and thus enable this Law to be passed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24480	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative and Vice President Mato Arlović.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24481	Mr. Vice-President, respected colleagues and colleagues, this amendment to the law and the addition of the Law on the lease of business space seems to be very short at first sight and actually opens so many important and important issues in general for the legal order and economic development of the Republic of Croatia which are extremely important and important. I am absolutely sure and I am convinced that there are no representatives in the Croatian Parliament who would not consider that craftsmen and small entrepreneurs should be encouraged and supported for the sake of economic development of self-employment and employment. I am sure among other things, and because we have so far had a policy that has actually made it possible and asked for appropriate instruments and given certain measures to achieve this and at the same time to protect fundamental constitutional rights and principles on the one hand and on the other hand not to disturb economic equality on the single market. But what did we get with this bill? Exactly what we didn't want to achieve. The first thing that needs to be made clear here is actually that Article 4 is about the new article 6a. Article 1 is replaced by the following: Whose ownership is wanted to be discussed that under special conditions and this is enough just to participate, meet the terms of the tender and accept the initial amount, be careful what the tender will do when you accept the initial amounts, the prices, can rent a business space, or the tenant can do so. It is about colleagues, municipalities, cities, counties, of course the state, the City of Zagreb and what else is about legal persons owned by them. Who are the legal persons in their possession? Institutions, companies. Look, we're ordering companies that they're going to have to rent part of their business space on favourable terms on the basis of what basis and that at the same time we're aware that there's no injured constitutional institute. I must say here that I advocate the principle of equality of the right of first offer, provided it gives, that it gives the conditions of the most favourable offer to the current tenant. But if such a sculpture is left as is now offered, then it is quite clear that it would significantly restrict the right of ownership, which is contrary to the Constitution, clearly, and this article, first of all, Article 48, which guarantees ownership and in its fullness from the rights of management, use and availability to, of course, decision-making actually under what conditions will be done. Another question that also violates itself. We have the Law on the system of local self-government so as to say the reduced obligation that units of local self-government must manage and manage their property and to manage the mart of a good host. Now what would it look like to care for a good host by which, in fact, in this way, you have to get rid of income from a business space. It pleases one another, and it actually makes it difficult for the other. Most citizens in the area of this unit of self-government because let's not forget that according to the Constitution, the municipality and the city are not entitled to local self-government. The right to local self-government belongs to citizens and the management of their business space is, in fact, for the purpose of achieving income in order to satisfy the direct interests and needs of those same citizens in the field of local self-government units. The third thing I would also like to point out is that if such a provision were to be maintained, we would simply be contrary to Article 49, because in fact, one part of the entrepreneurs would lead to or most of it in an unfavourable position, and those who are the current tenants or tenants would be more favourable and would violate the constitutional standard on, and an equal position on the market. Fourth. Is it actually opening an open basic issue now related to the next law, the legal provision of the article before only 5, 33a, which I think is even more subtle than this and 6.a. First of all, there is a sale of business space for the really willful property of the Republic of Croatia. But... the conditions and procedures to be laid down and prescribed by the Government. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] How? Not if it's going to sell or not? He's got to sell. So for the first time we come into a position to actually impose on the owner certain behaviours of this law, and that at the same time we are aware that we will not leave the market, achieve the equality of all entities that can appear because it is simply the current tenant in a more favourable position. If the application is submitted, it will have to be sold under the terms and conditions of the regulation, it will be prescribed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Secondly, still that's why... It's impossible to prescribe that by a regulation. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This must be prescribed by law by colleagues because among other things the Constitution clearly states that economic issues are governed by the Croatian Assembly of Laws. Therefore, and the Government adopts regulations implementing the law. It is not possible, therefore, that a couple, if only by law or regulation of minimum conditions and criteria of conduct, and somehow. But if it's not, then it's just not going. The fourth thing that's also important here is the fact that I personally don't think the state has the need to keep it if it owns a business space, to keep it in its possession. But not just that. There is no need to keep the business part of the living space that it also has still in its possession. But I don't think it can be solved like this. I think a whole new law should be passed and it's a matter of legislative activity. Of course, the responsibility of this Assembly which will determine the actual process of privatising the business space and living space owned by the state in the Republic of Croatia. Even under favourable conditions. And these favourable conditions are likely to put in such a position that the current tenant or the tenant may have one, on equal terms, advantage over the third. But we must allow everyone under equal conditions to access this property because it is the property of the Republic of Croatia. Fifthly, we must not forget that under the Constitution it is forbidden to touch in, into capital even by a law acquired by investments. The State may also give up in this respect concerning 33rd, but may not impose on units of local self-government to sell its business space, and in particular to its commercial companies, because it is a business space which is acquired by actually investing certain capital. Thus, even often times not only by their investment but also by their partners, and in such a situation, this issue must be settled quite differently. Because I'm thinking actually that you would... Rearrange Article 6a, paragraph 1 and so that, at the end of the line, all of these must participate and meet the conditions of the tender. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Even now, a tenant by me would not have to make any offer, but if he wants to remain a tenant in that field, he must accept the most favourable offer from that competition and everyone else. And that's when he's got the right advantage. This Article 33a, i.e. Article 5, should be completely deleted from this law because it is not the subject of this law and, possibly, the Assembly should be given a final commitment to the Government of the Republic of Croatia to, I do not know, within 60, 90 days, the matter of agreement, to prepare a new Law on the privatisation of business space or residential space owned by the Republic of Croatia, and also in such a situation, to decide what to do next. And the last thing related to Article 6 cannot be given a favourable position to a specific category of users of rights such as in this particular case the tenants, while at the same time leaving them an obligation to, if this law gives a more favourable position to complete, in the event of a competition which has been called before, under that law, rather than this. Therefore, it should also be harmonised. In such a situation, I am of the opinion that we should actually give the proponent the "time-out". And that is to agree that we will now not vote on this law but leave it to them after this debate of time, a week, two days because we have a lot of time until 15.12. ... sessions and that at that time they make amendments and supplement the law by amendment. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] To come with these amendments before the Parliament and to practically vote on it, while at the same time harmonising these amendments, this law, both with the Constitution and with the needs of the economy and of course the needs of our craftsmen and small entrepreneurs, or our employees of the then business space owned by the state or the units of local self-government and their legal entities. Thank you very much, dear colleagues and colleagues.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24482	Thank you very much. Now it's time for a respected representative, Ljubica Lalic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24483	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and fellow MPs. So it's ahead of us, are amendments to the law on the lease of business space and in an emergency procedure. What do you say? And what else is the only logical conclusion that stems from the fact that he was in a parliamentary procedure in a regular procedure in mid-March this year. Proposal for a Club of Representatives of the Croatian Peasant Party called Proposal for a Law on the Sale of Business Spaces. Afterwards, some other clubs submitted their proposals to amend and supplement the law on the lease of business space. The common fate of all the proposals was that the coalition parliamentary majority had been rejected already in the first reading. But apparently, all these proposals were pressure on the government, which, without convincing explanations, suggested that the proposal be rejected so far in an emergency procedure, in an emergency procedure, it referred its proposal, which is a mixture and a pale copy of the proposals so far rejected. For some proposals, the government said they were anti-constitutional, but now they are not anti-constitutional just because they are proposed by the government. However, it is obvious that we opposition clubs have forced the government to start thinking about the problems of craftsmen. It may be under this pressure to explain a sentence: The interests of the Republic of Croatia to encourage the development of a small economy. If that were the true belief of the Government then the report on the implementation of the Croatian Budget for the first 6 months of this year in the section relating to this part of the economy would seem quite different and the execution would not consist of zero itself. The fact is that fostering craftsmanship, small and medium-sized entrepreneurship leads to faster economic growth in market economy conditions. Development of craftsmanship, small and medium-sized entrepreneurship leads to so much needed increase in production and new employment. Statistics speak, and they do not challenge, while developing, 70,000 new jobs have been opened, and experts argue that a double number of those who have preserved jobs thanks to such policies. It is true that, unlike employees in social-owned enterprises who were able to acquire a share of ownership rights in these companies, craftsmen have even carried out activities in leased state-owned areas over several generations. We know how privatisation ended and how the workers went through it, but the craftsmen were not even given the opportunity to become owners of what they invested in and where they worked for generations. We pointed out this by explaining our bill, but then the government thought differently, so she literally wrote in her opinion, quoting: "The proposed legal solution leads to the fact that the Republic of Croatia is obliged to sell business space to the tenant if it asks, which means that the right of ownership is taken from her independently of her will. This legislative proposal is contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia," the quote concluded. That's what the government thought then. Here is only after 6 months in Article 5 of its proposal, the government says I quote "The business space owned by the Republic of Croatia will be sold to the tenant if he submits a request for purchase and meets all obligations under the Treaty neatly." It's a finished quote. So in just six months, the government has completely changed its mind, but it is not blasphemous to make a mistake if there is a will to detect, admit and repair it. But now we're moving on. In our proposal for the law, we also made a proposal for a model and criteria of sales, which guarantees the transparency of that part of privatisation. That part of the government did not take over in its proposal. She says, sales of business space will be carried out under conditions and under the procedure prescribed by the government. Why there is transparency here, why the government regulation next to the Parliament as the only legislative body in the Republic of Croatia. There is no reason that the terms and procedure of the sale should not be regulated by law. Using experience in privatising social enterprises, we will conclude that there is anything immoral in it and if the model was prescribed by law. Of course, serious fear and doubt triggers the government's authority to regulate such a sensitive issue by its regulation. THE suspicion is even stronger because the overrun comes at a time when the Croatian public is having an earthquake related to the suspicious connection of Miinstra Zuzula with one of the Ioto's capital and government companies in general. The proposed solution for me is unacceptable with safe craftsmen too because they want to know how and under what conditions they can buy what they have invested in for years and decades. The criteria, conditions and procedures must be unique and equal for everyone, and also known to everyone and not just to some. They must be discussed in the function of finding the most just solution, a solution that will be in the function of general good and that is possible only in the Croatian Parliament and not in one of the closed sessions of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Is it necessary to remind colleagues from the previous call when the then parliamentary majority rejected the government's proposal for a privatisation law precisely because the government and the Croatian Privatisation Fund were given by the authorities to regulate and prescribe the privatisation model? So we rejected the government's proposal made by the party ministers that we belonged to, and then we were the parliamentary majority. Why we refused. We refused because we didn't want non-transparency in privatisation. Well, as I didn't want it when my coalition government proposed it, I also don't want it now that this government, which, though, is coalitional but with some other parties. Furthermore, the law regulates the right to hire a former tenant if he participates and fulfils the conditions of the tender and accepts the initial amount of the lease published in the competition. Therefore, business premises owned by the Republic of Croatia municipalities, towns, county and city of Zagreb and legal persons owned and mostly owned by them are leased through a public tender. And so far, the tenant has the right to the championship. This is a positive shift because the right of the championship gives such a guarantee to the tenant so far that he will not have to buy towels at the end of the lease. Much better is the permanent problem of business space as a prerequisite to carry out activities but there is a need to respect the specific position of units of local and regional self-government. However, I have a vague explanation of the applicant who, in his explanation, says, quote. "In this way, without incurring the rights of ownership of units of regional and local self-government, they are reduced costs to carry out the tender process and protect their interest through a lease relationship." It's a finished quote. It would be concluded from such an explanation that the public complaint is not mandatory. If it is required, I find it unclear how the costs of carrying out the tender process are reduced. Maybe this is just about an inappropriate explanation. And in the end, I think there were much better proposals in the parliamentary procedure, a solution to this dark problem of many craftsmen. There was no political will to seriously discuss and find the best solutions, but so pressure has been put on the government by discussing a worse proposal today and by an urgent procedure. But he will certainly be accepted by the majority of the Parliament, only because the government's proposal is independent of us because of the intransparency of the bauk privatisation from the past not only houses not the doors but also the safe step and enters them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24484	Thank you very much. The correction of the incorrect allegations was made by Mr Emil Tomljanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24485	Mr. Vice-President, I would like to correct the incorrect allegation of the distinguished colleague Lalić, who claimed that in several generations in the Republic of Croatia, trade activities were carried out by state-owned craftsmen. In a sense. That's an incorrect quote. In terms of generational follow-up in the Republic of Croatia, this time continuity was interrupted by the Institute of Social Property. And I don't think we should, and it's repeated very often in the debates, identify or place a sign of equality between social property, and state ownership or social property and the ownership of cities and municipalities. That's a lot of different things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24486	Thank you very much. The word is Mr. Representative Vlado Jelkovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24487	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam Secretary of State. My colleagues and fellow MPs. Here, in a relatively short time today, we are discussing a second or third proposal that regulates our being one and the same problem. And during the last debate of the united one on the proposal of the CNS and the PGS and the DCA, I said it might be the smartest if the government had taken into account what we are discussing on that occasion with one of its draft laws. This bill or such a bill is today ahead of us, but at first I have to say that I am not quite sure that it has fully covered what we have discussed or that it is the best way to regulate those issues that we would like to resolve and with the help of craftsmen and small entrepreneurs. I am sure that regardless of policy on political parties, we all want to help craftsmen and small entrepreneurs. In the very explanation of the reasons for the adoption of this law, I really don't think it can stand the claim that these reduce the costs of implementation in the tender process and that this should be one of the reasons why the law is passed. Because then, in the second old one, we would certainly earn much more from the public tender with the increased rents that could be achieved in these competitions. But the goal is to help craftsmen, entrepreneurs, these are quieter craftsmen, as well as tens of thousands of employees who provide their bread and jobs. So there are only a thousand and 500 craftsmen in the city of Zagreb. In some ways, dilemmas are being conducted here, and this is evident in discussions on how to access these fundamental arguments and based proposals that regulate the issue of the rent. We've heard here and some thinking about how we should go on accepting the most lease. The fact is that this provision exists in the existing law, but then we shouldn't even change it, and I also think that by accepting this institute, and in the context of the bill that we're discussing, then we could really have situations in order to make a big and very high-proposed deal with those tenants, those craftsmen and small entrepreneurs who are now using business spaces. Therefore, I think that provision, which the Minister in the opening statement, said, that the Government would probably go with its amendment and that two months before the lease expires, would send a notice to the user and thus resolve the issue, so if he accepts, then there would be no competition, I think it could be a compromise solution and acceptable. I also resort to those thoughts that followed the proposal that state-owned provisions, owned by local self-government units, should not be laid down. I think we should treat the tenants uniformly, regardless of whose business space they are in. At the same time, I think we should certainly avoid the term "sell," because it implies that something is mandatory. So, according to this, only a tenant should plead that he wants it and the state should then sell him space. I think you should stand the "can be sold" institute, because of course there will be a series of situations where the state has an interest in not selling space for different reasons, and in that case, I think it should be defined by the term "can be sold", but what can and should also be said for the space owned by local self-government units. Article 6 in the amendments to the laws, this proposal, regulates the procedures that are currently under way, has also been mentioned many times, and I also advocate that those competitions that are currently under way and that they are completed under those provisions of the laws that are more favourable to the party, therefore for the tenant. And final. Given that a series of remarks, a number of constructive proposals that were heard here, I think it would be wise to treat this debate today as a first reading and that the Government may take one step out, respecting what was said, and think with the final proposal of the law, respecting these remarks, come up, come up with a final draft of the law, because there seems to be a lot of amendments, but also a lot of remarks that in a radical way change the provisions of these amendments, amendments and additions to the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24488	Thank you very much. We have one replica. Mr. Representative Zeljko Pecek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24489	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, I'd like to be here by the end of the terms of what the state wants, or what the state has to do. If the Government of the Republic of Croatia has made a decision to privatise the Privatisation Fund's portfolio as an emergency procedure and speedily, i.e. Sharecie, nothing prevents exactly from making the same decision and from privatising business spaces that are not necessary for the Government of the Republic of Croatia after the accelerated procedure. It's a very simple procedure and it's precisely me who advocates the same procedure, that of... We put into office entrepreneurship and the government would actually comply with a stand by arrangement with the International Monetary Fund and should make such a decision. [[You don't understand.]] I'm just inviting all of us to agree on such an approach. So, real estate and property that can be put into entrepreneurship, and it doesn't have to be sold to the state, it has to be sold in a short time. So there would be a sea in that function, and anything else could, if that property had to be for other purposes. Here, there's that difference in my view compared to the predecessor.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24490	Replication response, Mr. Representative Vlado Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24491	I'm going to replicate to Mr. Pecek in the same way as he did to me that I agree that the state can privatise those business premises, of course there and when it's her interest.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24492	Thank you very much. Here, at our session, students VII are present at our assembly session. High school from Zagreb, so let's say hello. Now he has the word Mr. Representative Vladimir Plesko. [[Applause]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24493	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. As Mr Jelkovac has already said, this is, in a very soon time, a re-debate on the law, meaning the lease of business space owned by the Republic of Croatia, owned by units of local self-government and it is true that this is one of the fundamental laws relating to small and medium-sized entrepreneurs and a very important law that speaks about the possibility of economic expansion and economic activity of these very economic structures in the Republic of Croatia. We all know together how much entrepreneurs mean to all of us, and for employment, and for following trends of new technologies in the world, but also because of some traditional values and traditional crafts and everything else that we have as one of the craftsmen's nations and we grow in our spaces. But it should also be said that all these debates and bill proposals so far, that they should be viewed from two completely different points of view. First, the first position is the interest of entrepreneurs, meaning small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, craftsmen who have a leased business space, and second, the second position is the interest of the state and unit of local self-government. What am I saying that for? I'm saying this for a reason why we need to know these particular interests. The interest of entrepreneurs is that the cheaper they get business space in their own, in their rent or in their property, so that they can do better and have as much income as possible. It is also the interest of entrepreneurs to reduce the possibility of illegal manipulation of these business premises at the time of public competition and lease or purchase of these business premises. The interest of entrepreneurs is also to reduce the number of competitors for less competition, it would be easier to reach business spaces. Especially in competitions when we know that sometimes a lot of people appear in a competition for a certain business space. And also for the purpose of meeting all the interests of the state is in the interests of entrepreneurs and to reduce red tape that is in the state or units of local self-government, means in their administrations. But also in this Croatian Parliament, in this House, we must defend both the interests of the state and the interests of local self-government units. What are the interests of the state and what are the interests of the local self-government units? The interest of the state and the unit of local self-government is to achieve as much income as possible from renting or selling its business premises. So, the state's interest is also to prevent the receipt of a customs apparatus bribe in the tender process, but it is also the interest of the state to retain quality tenants, not to mention that the interest of the state is also to protect traditional crafts and visors of cities. I don't need to remind myself of what Ilica or Vlaška or some other street in the cities would look like if there weren't any of our small shops, if there weren't any small entrepreneurs and craftsmen working in those areas. And then, in conclusion, if these are our common starting points and with the tenants of the tenant and the tenant, then this legislative proposal is not fully in line. For what? Because corruption, pressure on the tenant is not reduced, it means guessing or blackmail, because more income on market principles is not allowed, there will remain existing incomes of local self-government units or cities or states, because there is no measure to protect traditional crafts, urns, carpenters, pursers and goldsmiths, etc. and also because these amendments and additions do not provide for measures to control the conduct of public tenders and all that affects the whole law. For that reason, I specifically suggest. First, this legislative proposal in Article 4(6)a would be much more acceptable if they added or inserted into the section, to the conclusion of a contract on the lease of a business space if it participates in or fulfils competitions, tender conditions and accepts the average price of the leases received after the invitation to tender. It's a much more correct and fairer way to determine the starting points for further continuation of the rent. In the second part, it is also a very questionable provision of Article 4 of the proposed Article 6a(2), which speaks of defenders and, in practice, I think that it is contrary to the government's policy towards defenders, that defenders have the right to the championship in the rental. And thirdly, I have to look back on that part, in Article 5 that talks about the sale of business space, I think that if the law, the principle law that we're changing is, if the principle law on the lease of a business space is that a special law should determine the sale of a business space and I don't think that it can be in the same law and that it means renting a business space and selling a business space, and that there are reasons for that, and that there are already legal provisions in which units of local self-government or state can sell their property, through competitions, etc. etc. From what I am told, this legislative proposal should remove the emergency procedure, turn this into a first reading, refer to a second reading, and find a consensus solution in the community between the two stakeholders, meaning both the state and the local self-government units and also the entrepreneurs, meaning craftsmen, small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, which will very well determine the future of this law and the future relations needed for the benefit of all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24494	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative Emil Tomljanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24495	Mr. Vice President, Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Well, I would also like to point out that I certainly support those opinions that were aimed at simply looking at the lease separately from the Buying Institute, given the importance of these two institutions in light of the problem we are discussing and which, on the basis of this legislative proposal, regulations should therefore regulate these ownership relations in the segment of the small and medium-sized economy. However, I would also point out that I absolutely support the intensities and all those efforts of the Government that are heading towards resolving this issue, of course in a quality way and, of course, always in an affirmative sense towards small and medium-sized enterprises, according to those private entrepreneurs who are today, and so it will certainly be one of the backbones in the future and I would dare say, one of the healthiest segments of each economy and so on Croatian economy. What do I want to point out in the opening? In fact, this could be said to be a principle remark, so if we put two separate institutes and a lease and a purchase in fact in the amendments and additions to the Law on the lease of business space dating back to 96 with the 97 novels, which mainly and entirely resolved all the issues that were only and exclusively to the lease of business space. By placing the Institute of Sales or Buying and that business space owned by the state in this law in this and also nomotechnical sense, but primarily in a conceptual sense comes to the risk that we then have certain legal inaccuracies, legal inaccuracies because it is simply sometimes impossible to bring these two institutes into line in a way that they, in terms of regulatory terms, represent a single whole. Here is an example, so we can immediately specify it in Article 1(1), which is amended by the proposed law, but the proposed amendments do not change paragraph 2 and then we will remain in this provision that the general rules of the mandatory lease law apply to relations which are not governed by this law. So this would remain the same, and then we would have, according to this bill of law and the purchase of a business space owned by the state and of course about the lease. So, I agree with all those colleagues who have discussed in the sense that these two institutes are being separated because of their own importance and that one special regulation defines and resolves the problems of purchasing a business space in relation to small and medium enterprises when it comes to disposing of property rights in relation to that business space. Furthermore, I would like to point out, and I don't think it's anyone directly about this problem, and it really appears as a problem, and the problem is that our entrepreneurs, privates, small businessmen, and in fact it's that all these business spaces or most of them are burdened by one fact that we didn't really mention. So that in one great time period they were in the so-called system. "social ownership", and in this social property, regardless of whether it is a business space owned by the state, now the county, towns or municipalities have come on a variety of grounds. In particular, we have problems where these business premises as real estate came to the social property institute at the time, based on confiscation, nationalisation of the assets of the optanists, so in the social property system they were generally distributed, or distributed by the then executive councils of municipalities and from that regime, so social property is now the period when they, i.e. the holders of ownership rights appear to us municipalities, cities, counties, states or legal entities owned by the entities that I have mentioned. So, the property itself which, i.e. that property that we should now resolve in terms of a new way of defining the lease or the possibility of buying or buying the property or the business space that is owned by the state, I think we should start, what is said by these historical so-called land-booked extracts to see how it should either be a certain business space or property first came into the social property regime and then, then, from that social property regime, other rightholders of ownership were defined. Thirdly, I would like to point out that certainly some colleagues have mentioned constitutional problems, so problems whether a legal solution is in accordance with the Constitution or not in accordance with the Constitution and with the provisions of the Law on Property and other real rights which are directly prescribed in Article 391 in which way, and here when we talk about units of local self-government can be distributed with the right of ownership, but not only with the right of ownership but also with another way to dispose of it.' It is obvious, not obvious but clear and precise, that this is exclusively said on the basis of a public tender, with a natural fee at the market price if, of course, the law does not provide otherwise. And when we analyse that provision with the provision of Article 49. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, then we see that there may be a particular question, that is, the very terms of the tender or offer or the way in which the lease of business space will be defined by this legal solution, in doubt whether these solutions and these institutes are then in accordance with the Constitution or not, but if we had one different approach or if we had decided to buy from the lease, so if we were to analyse this property that I was talking about, so what is the business space in which we came into ownership of the units of local self-government, state or regional self-government, I think we would be able to do a lot of these things that have appeared here at least as a doubt or two things we could resolve. It's final. I absolutely support, so I repeat I support all those government initiatives and intensities to solve this problem. It really appears as a problem and it in a quality of course legal and constitutional way should be resolved. I suggest that we try to find a solution to separate these two separate legal institutes, so the lease from the sale, so I agree with the colleagues who have so far proposed and that one special law regulates all those relationships that are related to the purchase. And as for the form or manner or procedure of law-making, I also support those proposals that went towards this being like the first reading, and that the second or the very parliamentary debate or amendments or the basis of the arguments or opinions that have arisen from the debate itself are the most optimal, the most qualitative solutions to ensure that this power is properly regulated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24496	Thank you very much. She's got the word of Mrs. Representative Katarina Fuchek.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24497	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. In my debate on principle, I would also like to touch on some of the open issues that fellow MPs have seen in this bill and with which I would also like to contribute to finding a better solution. I would therefore like to begin with the explanation given in the proposal for this law, that it is the interest of the Republic of Croatia to encourage the development of a small economy and, if this law were not complemented in the proposed way, it would result in several thousand craftsmen in the Republic of Croatia to close crafts of which only in Luxembourg Zagreb over 1,500. I think this is a pre-rigorous assessment, especially because it is not supported by better quality statistics in terms of which people the state takes account of this law, and which part of the small economy, or which part of the craft is about which this law wishes to benefit from. And taking care of the promotion of small entrepreneurship, it certainly isn't just taking care of the possibility of a better and cheaper lease of business space. Because to encourage a little entrepreneurship through their programmes, through the Ministry of Economy is quite something else to guard, to cultivate in terms of the traditional values of the crafts that die out and those interests that we will present ourselves in a touristic sense and about what every community, each city must take care of in one special way. So encouraging small entrepreneurship does not only include preserving existing traditional crafts, but includes encouraging and everything else that can be treated as a small craftsmanship, i.e. a little entrepreneurship in terms of existing laws in terms of registration to a specific credit policy, a stimulating credit policy, a certain tax policy and other advantages for which our small entrepreneurs are interested, and craftsmen especially in performances at fairs where they have already highlighted this particular problem in a single incentive to the marketing presentation of their product. Because the twists didn't just disappear because of the expensive spaces. Turns have disappeared for several reasons, for functional and development reasons and for new technologies and for replacing existing new things that always come as progress and as progress that must be encouraged. In this context, this law is seen as a single pool of good intentions to encourage this small economy, but that even the corrects already seen injustices spoken of by fellow MPs in previous drafts of the law, and are now mentioned as a particular problem. However, the law as a law cannot be seen only for the City of Zagreb but for all of Croatia and it must be fair for all in all areas, which means that it must have equal access and that everyone must benefit from it or be equally protected with them. In the context of this problem, I see that in Zagreb, and yet in certain parts of Zagreb, this law does not have the same reflection. Looking at the local or business area market, it has its value and sure that in Ban Jelačić Square a certain area of the same square is worth far more than it is worth in an alley in a neighborhood. If local self-government wants a certain interest in its city for certain reasons, it has the possibility to assign space in Zagreb, because we see, daily we are witnesses, empty places, empty spaces for which there is no interest. Which means the City of Zagreb can also solve in a market-based way the problem of encouraging the missing professions, and also preserve the market value of the places that are attractive and that in the context of certain activities and content they can gain on value. If we see that this law strongly foresees the possibility of selling, which means that it actually does not allow the state to behave in a market economy. Why would the state, if it's owned, have to sell something? Why not also assess its market interest in some value. And yet if we look at who would have the right to buy, then he should have equal convenience under this law both in Zagreb and Gospić, and that is certainly not the case. They are not worth the same in Zagreb and Gospić, nor are they of equal interest to them. Let's look at small units of local self-government that would be lucky to have someone to rent, but they have no interest. And now, let's take the case that a certain price that should be otherwise arranged here is achieved for a certain space in Zagreb and that by market value one who would buy it will be in the profit of 200 thousand kuna, in 200 thousand kuna. And the one in Gospić that might even oversell. Is this Law, then, in equal measure fair to all? And Croatian laws must be for all Croatian citizens, and they cannot, regardless of all specificities and problems, which they have just entered into in such an opportunity to do, by correcting one injustice, do another injustice. Surely, colleagues have highlighted the most important problems facing them on the ground, especially the units of local self-government they must have, and now have certain opportunities and I think that everything depends, normally, on their interest, on their development, on the quality of taking care of who and where they will be and where they are at and how they will fill their contents in their urban areas. Let the units of local self-government also behave marketably because they certainly have their own institutions of control which also involve the public and which will react absolutely quickly if any irregularities are observed. So let's not allow for any possibilities of intransparency or open calculations whether there's any conjecture because there's really no reason to do that. Every law, and this one in particular, since it's already the third time in Parliament, has an interest, has the interest to safely open up individual calculations on whether someone bought something more favourable and not, and whether it is, and to discuss it in one wrong direction. We are interested in solving the problem, favouring those people who need it, respecting that in the past period as Croatian craftsmen in one system that was not prone to, were the most vital part of society, that they had drawn forward, that they had invested a lot, valued but also looked at all aspects that negatively affect it and which could perhaps negative connotations draw from individual fast-track solutions. Because when it's not all the way down to the end, then it's safe to open space for different calculations, and that's certainly not our point. I propose, I adhere to all the solutions and suggestions that they have proposed, that this law be in the first reading because so many open issues and for the final solution, it is certain that we should sit down and take a closer look at every aspect that included this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24498	Thank you very much. Clubs for five minutes, that's it. On behalf of the HSP Club, Mr. Representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24499	Mr. Vice President, Madam Minister, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, colleagues and colleagues. For the end, I'll be brief and clear. The HSP club supports the government's intention to address the issue of protection of craftsmen and businessmen regarding the use of business spaces. But not the way it was shown in the final bill. In fact, this debate today showed that we were right when we asked that this bill not be discussed today as final but to be discussed in the first reading. Namely, since there are two important remarks there. One is comments, doubts, meaning constitutional law, and the other are doubts about the legal certainty of citizens. And, of course, it is clear to everyone that it is not the same situation if a business space is used, let's say, for a catering facility or a business space is used for one Homeland War association, or a business space is used just for the right, a classic craft that is important. Therefore, all of this indicates that there are two solutions. Let us direct this to another reading or that the Government takes it out of 10 15 days so that it removes everything so that we can pass a regulation that is enforceable and that is in accordance with the Constitution. So there are only these two ways. I'm particularly glad that the vice president of the government is here now, the man I greatly respect and appreciate, because I'm going to be talking about one piece, and that's about this law, and it's about the real estate of the state. In fact, the very fact that at this point the state owns a thousand 258 properties that are not used speaks enough of all this. That the state has finally executed a list of these properties and now has to behave with the attention of a good master. As part of this, let's say 136 properties used by the Ministry of Defence, which were neither function nor needy at all. 57 is used by the MUP, the moss is a word and warehouses, polygons and resorts. For example, there are properties such as the Vojarna Kerestinec, Kerestinec Castle near Zagreb, but also former military facilities in Mali Losinj,... Namely, the value of these properties goes to a billion. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, we expect the government to take measures to address this problem because this empty thousand 258 real estate means still the collapse of these properties if it is not used, and there is a huge potential. One part can be put on sale at market prices, thus filling the budget and implementing military reform. It would be even for the payoff of the pensioners, and another way to rent. Let's just say, in all of that, the fact that somewhere around 398 so-called. the business premises that the Ministry of Defence once had, even though it's not clear here right now, is that at the Department of State Property, Central, or at the Department of Defense? Namely, the former law enforcement, the state, this office has done nothing. For a long time, and thanks to the Deputy Prime Minister, that list has finally been completed, and now it is necessary to behave accordingly. Let's just say, everything before, everyone was talking about the example of Nettle, the space in Bellmire's 5 used by Mrs. Nevenka Tudjman, and that was a big hack, a story, and now he's standing empty. He's standing empty now. So we have to take measures, let's not introduce taxes but let's do that part so we don't introduce taxes and expect, Vice President, knowing that you're a valuable and hardworking man, that you're going to take it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24500	Thank you very much. Finally, also 5 minutes on behalf of the HSS Club Mr. Zeljko Pecek.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24501	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Madam Secretary of State, Deputy Prime Minister. We have an interesting situation here with this bill. We all support it, let's start with clubs and committees and individuals, but we all have very serious objections. I believe that the reason why the Government of the Republic of Croatia is actually the 4th Proposer after HSS, HNS, DC and through narrowing down what was intended to be achieved through this Law we have come to this, I believe, in the 4th attempt of the worst solution. That is why the HSS advocates a second reading of this Law in which we are about to combine all these best proposals that we had in previous discussions through amendments to the Law on Rental and through the proposal of the HSS on the sale of business space. There is a clear view of our position, too, that we must have two laws. It is illogical to regulate and sell through the Law on the Rent of Business Space. I believe it is a legal nonsensense that is happening in the Republic of Croatia. However, what is most important of the HSS is that the regulation solves what we sell, in which way it costs, whether the regulation regulates whether there is a possibility of recognising a discount, for the length of the lease, for investment, whether there is a possibility of a delay in payment. Because here, if we adopt these laws in this way, neither we nor craftsmen know what we have voted for because we are waiting for the government to pass the regulation. I completely unnecessarily feel that it should be in the law itself. What's here is a dilemma, whether to give this kind of support to a small economy and whether they actually have an advantage over some. I think they deserve it and I support exactly one such as that I'm going to call it positive discrimination where for the first time craftsmen and a small economy have some advantage. What I advocated, which I said through the debate and here I ask the Deputy Prime Minister to note, as we have made a decision on the accelerated privatisation of shares in the Privatisation Fund, which we will obviously implement not only because of the International Monetary Fund but also because of us within a year to two days, that the government also makes a decision on the list of properties that can be placed for the purpose of entrepreneurship that will, in this principle, be in the position of selling or possibly renting. I believe that it is necessary several thousand properties, not only owned by the state but also what is potentially owned by the state and now in bankruptcy stands unused, while both craftsmen and small businessmen build expensive business spaces. What is also important today is that craftsmen leave their premises because there is a return of property but an important element is also too high a price, of course, in those areas that are interesting for craftsmen. It's absolutely certain that they can't compete with large systems, so I'm pushing for positive discrimination, and I'm saying we don't lose our craftsmanship. No one here has mentioned but we can think about a different solution if we accept the principle of market price in sales or rent that we help this sector with subsidies or other forms of aid. No one defends the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the competent Ministry of Economy, that it is just subsidising craftsmen and small entrepreneurs to stay in that space and that not only the City of Zagreb, but the whole of Croatia would have the craftsmanship that it needs anyway. What is most important, and I would ask that the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and we all, remove the dilemma of whether this law is unconstitutional, I believe that it is not because the Republic of Croatia is interested in the development of this sector and for that there is a state interest because in the sector of crafts and small economy there are 650 thousand people, and once again I will point out in the craft we have over 100,000 workshops and we have 250 thousand employees. For this reason, what they expect us to do as quickly as possible but also do as best as possible, let us come up with a proposal for a new Law on the Sale of Business Space, go out through the quality changes of the Law on Renting Business Space, let us not determine who is guilty and who is when it should be done. I have here the paper of the Croatian Chamber of crafts where it actually says that the government is 1. 3. In 1999, at the Co-ordination for Internal Policy, we discussed a similar proposal for this law. Obviously, it's been over five years, nothing happened, now we have a chance to do a lot, and I'm inviting you to do it as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24502	Thank you very much. On the final Mrs. Minister Vesna Skare-Ozbolt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24503	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I thank everyone for the debate and for those who have proposed, for making concrete proposals, and for those who have criticised them. We really wanted to give this bill support to the small economy, so we wanted to give legal and economic security to those in the business premises, whether it was the premises owned by the Republic of Croatia, whether it was the premises owned by local administrations and self-government. We think that this proposal sought to balance the relationship between the owner and the tenant. All your remarks will be well considered, we disagree with the objections that could be heard here in part that this Law is anti-constitutional because it allegedly limits property. He does not restrict the ownership of local administrations and self-government, as it has been said here several times. And the state as a public rights officer shows its willingness to facilitate the position of the tenants and sell its assets. I have to say here that for 10 months now, a list of the entire state property in the territory of Croatia and about 50% of such assets has not yet been collected all the necessary documentation to say that it has a neat property-legal documentation and only then will its purpose be determined. Therefore, this Law, which we will yet listen to your suggestions to improve, is necessary in this year, should be passed by emergency procedure because the position of many craftsmen at this time is very uncertain. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24504	I would like to thank Mrs. Secretary. I'm closing the debate on this agenda point, and it's going to be voted later. I'm setting a break until 3:00, and we're going to proceed with point two. Final bill on the protection of patients' rights. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24505	We should now vote, we have four points to vote on, this is the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Hire of Business Space, the Law on Protection and Rescue and Amendments and Supplements to the Act on freshwater Fisheries, along with those reports relating to HRT. Let's go first to the Final Proposal on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Hire of Business Space, the Emergency Procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 177. The debate on the text is over. We have amendments to the government, one amendment to the government, and amendments to MPs and club representatives. First, we have an amendment to the Government and, in accordance with Article 166(2), we need to vote whether or not we will debate and vote on this amendment of the Government since it has been submitted beyond the deadline. Please engage. A good part of the MP doesn't have the keys. Here you go, Mrs. Byte.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24506	... Article 238a(6), we ask that the vote be held by the raise of the hand. [[Specially enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24507	Okay. So, then, who's in favour of discussing and voting the amendment of the government that was filed outside the deadline? Thank you. Against? Restraint? I find that, unanimously with 82 votes, it has been accepted to vote on the debate on this amendment. I ask the Minister to explain the amendment's proposal. Minister Vesna Skare-Ozbolt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24508	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear ladies and gentlemen of Article 4 The proposal for an amending and supplementing law on the lease of business space proposed in paragraph 1 of Article 6a to current tenants who regularly comply with the obligations arising from the lease contract, therefore subsidising the lease and other obligations under the contract, wanted to be granted certain legal certainty in the planning of the business, so they were primarily granted the right to conclude a lease contract in the tender procedure, subject to the acceptance of the conditions set out in the most favourable offer. It is estimated that by amending paragraph 1, Article 6a of the procedure for leased business space to current tenants, it would be placed and cheaped because no public tender would be carried out, thereby contributing to the safety of the legal position of the current tenant.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24509	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the amendments to the government. Please, who's in? Thank you. Against? Restraint? I find that with 79 votes for and 3 abstentions, the government's amendment has been accepted. Now let's get on the plate. Amendment 1, do you have ministers?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24510	Yeah.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24511	The amendment of the representative of Jura Bitunjca.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24512	It is not accepted for the reason why it derogates the Law of Property and other real rights.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24513	By the way, I'm a bit of a rep.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24514	I'm withdrawing the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24515	Amendment One withdrawn. 2nd Amendment of the SDP Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24516	It is not accepted because it is contrary to the purpose of the title and protection of the current tenant and it is contrary to the government's amendment that has been accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24517	Since there is not only a proposing but not one single representative from the SDP Club, we must vote. Who's up for that amendment? ... For the amendment? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Against? When you read the Rules of Procedure, you'll understand something, so don't throw it at me. Restraint? I find that the amendment has not received a single vote. 82 against. 3rd representative of Jura Bitunjca.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24518	We do not accept for the same reason as this 1st amendment because it derivates the Law of Property and other real rights.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24519	I'm pulling.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24520	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24521	Amendment 3 withdrawn. Amendment of 4th Representative Ivo Josipovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24522	The amendment is not accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24523	Who's up for that amendment? Who's against it? Restraint? The amendment was rejected by 77 votes and four abstentions. 5th representative of Jure Bitunac.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24524	This amendment shall be accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24525	Amendment accepted, becoming an integral part of the law. And the 6th Amendment, also represented by Jura Bitunjca.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24526	It is not accepted for the same reason because it derogates the Law of Ownership and other real firsts.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24527	Just like the last one I'm pulling.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24528	Amendment 6 withdrawn. And the 7th representative Frano Piploić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24529	This amendment shall be accepted. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24530	It becomes an integral part of the law. I am voting on the final draft law amending and supplementing the law on the lease of business space. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Restraint? I find that with 80 votes for and 1 abstentions, the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the lease of business space in the text has been adopted, as proposed by the Proposer, together with the amendments adopted. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we will proceed with our work. It's on the agenda, - final bill on the protection of patients' rights, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 103. The Proposer of the Law is the Government. In the case of the adoption of this Act, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the Law shall apply. The debate was conducted by committees on legislation, European integration, work, social policy and health, human rights and the rights of national minorities, local and regional self-government and gender equality. You received the reports at the session. I ask the Deputy Prime Minister and the Minister of Health and Social Care, Mr Andrija Hebrang, to further explain the proposal. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24532	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honored ladies and gentlemen of the council. We adapted this Law between the first and second readings to the remarks we received from the constituency committees, so I would be free to point out some of the problems that occurred between the first and second readings. First of all, it should be said that this is a law that is not the only law on the protection of the rights of patients but is merely the filling of a legislative and legal void. This Law is based on the Declaration on the Promotion of Patients' Rights in Europe and is based on the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Dignity of Human Beings as regards the Application of Biology and Medicine, the Convention on Human Rights and Biomedicine. It is therefore in line with all the European Union norms and that was the objective of this Law. Why am I saying that? Because in these few weeks between the first and second readings in the press, and in other forms of activity, many do not understand why this Law is passed and what extent it is adopted. The rights of Croatian patients are so far defined by 6 existing laws that are not put out of force. So all that is laid down in these laws in terms of the right of patients remains in force, and this law fills some of the gaps that have been of our rights under these European Union documents. So all the comments we received and which we received through both the press and the media, etc., were given to show that we did not explain enough that all other laws acquired the rights of our patients remain. This leaves all the rights in the Health Care Act that guarantees accurate information, lessons on patient health issues, refusal to be subject to health research without consent, confidentiality of all data relating to the patient’s state of health. Right of acceptance or refusal of diagnostic and therapeutic procedures, etc. Another law guaranteeing the rights of patients is the Law on Medicine which guarantees the right to provide and determines the possibility of denying the help of the patient. The next one's the Sisterhood Act, the next one's the Health Insurance Act, and so I don't keep counting. Therefore, the rights of our patients are guaranteed by these laws and what is not in this law today is not because it is already in these laws, so it should be seen as a complement to the existing legislation. That is exactly what we received from the Council of Europe, that is, the European Union, and in that sense, this Law is before you today. The interpretation of this Law further states that the numerous differences he has caused are precisely the result of the ignorance of what I have said. I'm just going to give you a few examples to see what I'm saying. This news appeared in the press after the first reading: "The law that has been passed will in practice allow all drug testing against children, mental patients and mentally retarded persons". Of course not, because it is consistent with the European Union and it is known who, when and under what conditions can examine the medicine, for example, against children. It must be examined otherwise would not have any medicine that treats children’s diseases, but the conditions are strictly prescribed and we have adopted all these specifics in the laws so far. Or, for example, he says that "in this Law, a patient cannot refuse a medical service even if that service even threatens his life and health". Not to mention, there have been such remarks, for example, that the patient does not have the right under this Act to look into the waiting list. There is no under this Law, but it is already under the applicable law of ours, which is applicable, etc., etc. So please understand that this law only complements the existing rights of the patient. These rights of patients in the Croatian state are on our pride, but of course it causes problems. I always claim, among the greatest rights in the world. Why? Because in Croatia alone, a patient has the right to receive 99.5% of the cost of health care from the state budget. This right has no more states in the world. Therefore, if we go from this to protecting the rights of man, the rights of personality and all other rights laid down in those laws. We still have very little work left to do, to fill in the blanks, and to fill in this law that is before you. Since I spoke exhaustively of him in my first reading, I would now simply say what we accepted from the remarks between the first and the second reading. So, we have accepted the conclusions of the Legislative Committee, which has asked for sanctions to be cited in the Law for overstepping the provisions on the respect for the rights of patients. In our first reading, we did not mention them because on the side of the Law Department we were told that sanctions were already provided for in the Law of Infringements. However, we insisted that we prescribe these sanctions from the Law on Violences. Therefore, if there are objections to the level of punishment, it was not us who determined it but who determined it in Articles 41 and 42 of the existing legal regulations. The Committee on Labour, Social Policy and Health, therefore, requested that the committees we founded at the county and state level as a second and third-degree body following the complaint of the patient to the director of the institution, that the members of the commission be approved. We accepted that, and that cost will be at the state level somewhere around a million and 100,000 kuna a year. This was introduced in Articles 31 and 39. The Committee on Human Rights and National Minorities has proposed that, according to the observations made by this Committee, the circumstances relating to the patient's consent to a particular procedure or procedure, especially when it comes to disabled persons, and we have included their opinion in Article 16. The time limit for individual resolution is also in place. On the other hand, we had observations that these deadlines were too long. So we've determined that the director of the facility as the first degree at which the patient complains must solve the case within 8 days. If the patient is not satisfied with going to the County Commission, there are also deadlines for taking action for 8 days, for giving a solution for 15 days. If it is not satisfied there is a third level, it is a committee at the level of the Ministry of Health and there are strict deadlines set. The reference was that these deadlines were too long, however, the problem of the investigation in the event of non-compliance with the patient's right is very complex and takes a long time. We are with these deadlines significantly shorter and faster than a court case. Finally, it should be said that any commission at the county level and at the state level, if it cannot and is not competent to resolve the problem, can hand it over to a criminal or criminal court for further proceedings. In this way, the judiciary is involved in the resolution of these rights. I think that, not to think, but I am sure we have fully harmonised all the provisions of this and these laws with the European Union, which means that the protection of patients' rights in Croatia is equal to that of the European Union. By always pointing out the right even greater because of ensuring practically the overall value of a health service. I must say here that, unfortunately, two days ago, I just received a whole series of remarks and potential amendments sent to me by Mr. Zoran Pusic, President of the Civil Committee on Human Rights and all these remarks, and there are indeed many, are the consequences of just not understanding this problem. That this Law is not the only law, but the sixth law that speaks of the same rights and all the observations that are stated here are already settled by other laws. Since legislation does not repeat specifics in the laws of a newer date, then we did as I said. Finally, I ask you to support this Law, it has been done by a professional group for a long time, I would say even too long, and I think that with this Law we are solving practically all possibilities relating to the right of the Croatian patient in Croatian institutions or in the system of treatment, Croatian health care. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24533	Thank you very much, Minister. The committee's reporters want to take a word for it? The Legislative Committee? The Committee on European Integration? The Committee on Labour, Social Policy and Health, President of the Committee, Honored Representative Marko Turic, please welcome.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24534	Your Honor, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary. The Committee on Labour, Social Policy and Health at the 15th session of the Committee held on 2 November 2004 discussed the Final Proposal for a Law on the Protection of Patients' Rights. The Committee discussed the Law as a home working body in accordance with Article 75. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The opening argument was tabled by the applicant's representative. Before the start of the discussion, the Committee members expressed their satisfaction with the fact that many of the comments made at the first reading, as well as the comments made by this Committee, which is important to correct the text of the final draft law. The Committee members had the amendments to the Civil Committee on Human Rights and the Union of Independent Unions of Croatia that could not be discussed because they were delivered just before the meeting. With four votes, the committee rejected the proposal to refer this law to the third reading. During the debate, it was pointed out that the rights of patients are regulated by the Constitution, the applicable health and other laws, as well as the Code of Medical Ethics, and are complemented by this Final Proposal of the Law, along with other regulations further enhances the rights of patients. The provision of sanctions for breach of the provisions of the Law provides for judicial protection and the exercise of the intended rights of patients. By providing funds for the work of members of the Committee, their work ceases to be voluntary and it is realistic to expect it to become more quality. This will certainly contribute to setting deadlines for the commission's submission of complaints. After the discussion, the members of the Committee decided, with one vote, to propose to the Croatian Parliament for the adoption of the Law on the Protection of Patients' Rights, as proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24535	The Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities? The Committee on Local and Regional Self-Government? The Committee on Gender Equality? Yeah. President-in-Office of Gordana Sobol, please welcome.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24536	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. At its 14th session held on 9 November, the Committee on Gender Equality discussed the Final Bill on the Protection of Patients' Rights as an interested working body of the Assembly. The debate supports the adoption of this Act because besides promoting the rights of patients with this Act, so-called a package of medical laws. It is pointed out that for the first time this Law creates a partnership relationship between patients and doctors. Part of the Committee members and members specifically referred to those provisions of the final draft law relating to gender equality and the rights of partners and partners living in same-sex communities. Gender equality law prohibits discrimination based on marital or family status and sexual orientation. And the Law on same-sex communities stipulates that the effects of the existence of a same-sex community are the right to support one of the partners and the right to acquire and regulate mutual relations both in relation to property and in the right to mutual assistance. By respecting the standards, the anti-discrimination relations mentioned above in the debate, the president of the Gordana Sobol Committee asked that Article 51 be applied. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament shall draw up its opinion on the following provisions: Article 24 and Article 35 of the proposed Law, to install the possibility for partners, i.e. partners of the same-sex community, to have access to medical documentation relating to the diagnosis and treatment of the diseases of their partners and partners, if this is not explicitly prohibited by patients as well as the possibility to appeal to the director of the health institution. In view of the fact that the Law on Equal Communities, the same sex community is defined as the living community of two persons of the same sex who are not married to an extramarital or to another same sex community which lasts for at least 3 years and which is based on the principles of equality between partners of respect and assistance, and emotional bonding of partners, the Committee’s opinion is that they must also be given the right to see medical documentation and to file complaints as well as the right to submit complaints to a second spouse, an adult child, a parent, a full-time brother or a sister, and a legal representative or guardian of a patient. Furthermore, the chairman of the Gordana Sobol Committee has an opinion on the basis of Article 51. The Rules of Procedure and the Committee for the Protection of Patients' Rights, both in regional and regional self-government units, consider that both gender equality should be laid down in Articles 32 and 38 of the proposed law. After the debate, the Committee decided by majority vote, 5 for and 3 against the Croatian Parliament to adopt the Law on the Protection of Patients' Rights. The Committee also unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament that the following conclusion be made: To be in charge of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to respect gender equality when proposing laws and other acts in all the provisions in which the male-female family is called. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24537	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. Croatian Democratic Community Representatives' Club, Honored Representative Kajo Bucan, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24538	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Government, Mr. Hebrang, colleagues and colleagues. Allow me to speak on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Club about this Bill proposal, a law sent by the Government in a procedure not full 4 months after the first reading, a Law based on the principles of human rights and accessibility. By accepting the message that personal dignity is the indestructible property of every human being, we should immediately say that the rights of patients are regulated by both the Constitution and the Health Protection Act and the Law on Health Insurance and the Law of Medicine, and this Law further normatively regulates the rights of patients, not only as a result of strengthening social awareness, not only as a development of medical technology, but not only through the complexity of the health care system and strengthening the role of patients in the health system, but this Final Bill is also in line with the legal property of the European Union and the legal acts of the Council of Europe. That's it. The European Union Declaration on the Promotion of Patients' Rights in Europe and the Council of Europe Convention, in most parts, fully and in some parts, not because of the absence of relevant provisions of the Convention. We point out in the Croatian Democratic Community Club that we noticed that they were respected after the first reading and the observations of the Legislative Committee on the harmonisation of this Act, the Family Law. The Committee on Labour, Social Protection, Social Policy and Health on the financing of the work of the members of the Committee as well as the Committee on Human Rights in relation to the precision of provisions relating to patient consent to procedures and deadlines in which the committees are obliged to carry out their duties. The Croatian Democratic Community Club holds that this is our joint task. The task of protecting the needy and the sick by written law. Because the culture we live in puts diseases and patients on the verge of events. He is in some way isolated, passive and there is a paradox of a modern man who is increasingly seeking his autonomy in various areas and is also expected to be comforted and calmed, treated, healed and therefore very complex Law. A law in which they touch each other and intertwine law, bioethics and medical ethics. So here we are talking about legal, i.e. the highest level of coordination from those who can and should be offered by medical service providers. From the way you first contact, facial expressions, gestures, movements, voice colors, terminology. The law defines the right to co-determination and the right to notification, which assumes the consensus of doctors and patients, the right to a second cumbersome opinion, the right to accept or refuse a particular diagnostic or therapeutic procedure, which would not endanger the health of patients, and the rights of deaf and blind persons. Why the opinion and the Office of Human Rights has been obtained and is in line with the Law on Public Registration. The provisions of Articles 17 and 18 regulate the right to the health care of patients who are unable to decide for themselves. However, article 19 on the protection of patients under scientific research may have made it a little bit better for us to do grammar. For the first time, it mentions an inadequately translated term from English, i.e. Information sent, or informed consent. You will probably agree with us that such a thing is not possible, because consent cannot be informed, but you might suggest the concept of consent informed. informed patient. The same term appears in Article 20(5), so we believe that it may need to be changed, although the concept of informed consent already exists as a poorly translated term in medical lexicon. Articles 23 and 24 regulate access rights to medical documentation, including in case of patient death and opposition to medical documentation. The law also provides for the establishment of a commission at the level of units of the regional self-government, its composition and the work cycle, the right to access the premises in which the health activity is carried out, and the right to insight into the way in which the patient's rights are exercised. These are specified deadlines in which the commission must fulfil its tasks. The Law also provides for the establishment and appointment of a committee by the Minister responsible for Health and its duties, activities and funding methods. By accepting the observations of the first-readers, the Proposer identified and specified in Articles 41 and 42 of the situation and infringements and the amount of fines for healthcare institutions and workers in the event of a proven breach of the provisions of this Act. However, in order for this Law to live in everyday life, apart from its adoption by voting in this home, it will take much more than the education of patients to demand their rights, training of health care professionals, involvement of a wider social community to the media, which should carefully and patiently raise the degree of health culture, the degree of notification and rights, as well as the obligations of patients. We are often witnessing that patients are given untrue hopes and encouragement that is accompanied by material poverty of the patients themselves, and as an example, paid ads of programs that offer treatment for chronic and incurable diseases for which no final treatment successes are described in any scientific journal, and it is true that after a few years, such patients are completely materially and spiritually exhausted and with a sense of deception remain cornered and humiliated. We think more, Mr. Minister, in Article 10, it may be necessary to specify that professional second opinion can be given by those healthcare professionals of high professional training who have an orderly license to work in the Republic of Croatia on the basis of the Croatian medical license, and not to be able to walk around the country, and at the invitation of various commercial houses doctors who are not allowed to work in the Republic of Croatia on any legal basis. We point out that this legal proposal does not touch the area of tissue and organ transplants as well as the problem of medical documentation because it is the subject of other laws. In view of the fact that all the parliamentary committees who discussed this Law supported it, we believe that the representatives realized that it was a quality proposal of the Law. We believe that this Law will facilitate the exercise of the right to better quality and continued health care with more active access to patients in the process of diagonal and treatment. So we invite you from the Croatian Democratic Community Club to support together this law for which the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community will vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24539	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HNS Club PGS and Dr Nikola Ivanish and Dragutin Lesar, you'll probably share the time? Dr. Nikola Ivanish, then. Here you go. Thank you very much. On behalf of the HNS Club PGS and Dr Nikola Ivanish and Dragutin Lesar, you'll probably share the time? Dr. Nikola Ivanish, then. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24541	Thank you very much, dear President-in-Office of the Parliament, Mr. Minister, colleagues and fellow MPs. The Croatian People's Party Club and the Primorje-Gorskin Alliance believes that the adoption of this Law, which we are now discussing, will make Croatia both more civil and civil in terms of the development of society and ultimately a more European state, and therefore we think that law should be passed. After we're 14. Last year, a special law adopted conventions, which regulate the area of part and human rights that regulate the scope of biology to man-made conventions on organ transplantation, requires that the law be passed and completed with it by a common range of health laws. In the Club, we believe that it is extremely important that every man, his dignity and identity, be respected the integrity of every citizen of a healthy man, but especially one who is at risk, and the patient is threatened and for this reason this Law is necessary to complete the overall rights of the patient, i.e. the patient who is naturally contained in a significant part and in the remaining laws that we will later say something about. For these very reasons, however, we would like to point out that we at the Club really do not think that the adoption of the Law on the Protection of Patients should create an illusion in society and in interested people, so also in patients that this Law will do not know how large giant steps to protect the right to equality in the use of the services of the overall health system. The equality of all users today as well as yesterday, equality right to use everything that healthcare provides to citizens in Croatia is impossible to provide. It was yesterday, it's today, and it'll be tomorrow and eventually. We think it should be made clear that equality on the right to use health services does not equal citizens in Grazac, Karlobag or in Zagreb. This should also be made clear in the same way that, in the same respect and in terms of the protection of its rights in different environments, it cannot ensure equal protection. Therefore, only further efforts to ensure the overall functioning of the overall health system, which is a complex, complex and layered system and whose quality of operation can be difficult to address in general the problems and protection of patients' rights, the Health Insurance Act above all, the Law on Health, Medicine, sisterhood and pharmacy and something I would like to say about two sentences. The issue of information of our citizen users of the health system, insurance company of the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance, information about what he gets with basic health insurance in Croatia. We responsibly argue that the largest majority of our citizens today do not have complete information about what belongs to them based on basic health insurance. As the second pillar was introduced not so long ago, so additional health insurance, which, above all, proved to be a failure in the operation of material finance. One of the reasons for failure was that there was no limit to how far the citizens get what they receive from basic health insurance and from where they are complemented. And for this reason, as long as our citizens who regularly comply with their obligations to the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance and do not know clearly what is their basis for established health insurance, we will have neither equality nor guaranteed the exercise of rights. So we believe that this law that we're talking about today is a good basis, that the proposal is good. We accept part of the arguments also in the introduction which has been presented, which is that a significant number of objections from the parliamentary debate and a significant number of objections from civil society associations between the first and second readings have been incorporated and that the text has been improved. Of course, the text is not improved until perfection. We have some remarks on the text that my colleague will continue to speak of. We also have concrete amendments, but we would like to point out in particular that problems in the functioning of the health system as well as problems in the functioning of principled respect for legality in Croatian society are both of them who will still very often bring the patient in a position not to exercise their full rights and to advocate the full functioning of these two systems, but I also stress that this one, not only health but also the overall judicial one, is what we will take a step forward to reduce the amount of patients' rights violations. As far as the county commissions are concerned, we think that this law transfers part of responsibility for patients' rights to the county and we want to discuss this highlighted to ensure from the county, we expect that they are responsible for ensuring all the conditions for the work of committees in the health offices because if this part of the law is not done, it will remain a dead letter on paper. We support the amendments of the Committee on Human Rights, three amendments we think are good. They don't change the essence of the law but they improve it. We've given ourselves three amendments that we think are acceptable. We also suggest the conclusion that we will do something to take a serious step in knowing the information of our patients, we do not think that it is a great cost. We suggest a conclusion to the Parliament, you have it on benches, that the ministry, within 30 days of the adoption of the law, this law in the form of cheap and easily legible brochures, secures and stamps in sufficient quantity that our users can obtain it at the time of entering health institutions. We think that it is good and useful and absolutely we think that this will improve citizens' information and motivate them to use their rights. And only in the end I draw attention to Article 28 for whom it is illusory to expect, I think it is his place, absolutely his place in law, but it is illusory to expect that privacy will be protected in conducting diagnostics and therapy in a significant part of our hospitals where patients lie in rooms with the number of beds they lie in. I don't think that's a big deal, that article should be the way it is, but I hope that doesn't raise a particular question. And in that sense, we will uphold the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24542	Thank you. Dear Representative Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24543	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! One of our proposals given in writing and for the purpose of this law rests on the provision of the last indent of Article 8 which, in this law as well as in the Health Protection and Insurance Act, repeats that each insurance patient of the citizen of this State has the right to be informed of his health insurance rights and procedures for the exercise of those rights. We believe that the best, the most efficient and the cheapest dam against possible rights violations, the short of rights, the manipulation of rights, if citizens know what their rights are. And other not less important if they know where, where, where, where, or whose door they must enter to protect their rights. That is why I find it extremely useful and it is a new approach to the legal regulation of the rights of the citizens of patients who today are called by this law that the basic rights, the essence of this law, in particular in the manner and possibilities of the protection of injured rights, are not only a document in the National Paper as a legal act, but would oblige the ministry to do so within the appropriate time frame through the brochures, guides and posters, allow citizens to learn, learn about this new category of rights that they give them in order to do so ourselves enough to give citizens a chance to learn about these rights. I think that would be extremely useful because it is therefore a law that is complete novelty in terms of citizens' rights and also in terms of those who provide those rights in the health system, so both sides. And the minister will probably also accept the proposal because this will reduce the number of misunderstandings, complaints and complaints and make more savings if we avoid unnecessary costs that can be reported there. The second thing I want to say about Article 10 is the right to a second opinion. Very well imagined, very well that it exists in the law. However, this provision and that is why we went with the amendment because it is not clear enough and is not binding on anyone within which time to ensure that a second opinion is given, especially if the patient asks for a second opinion or for an institution where he received his first opinion or goes to another institution for a second opinion, because according to current regulations, the minister mentions your introduction when you spoke of other laws he should receive a reference for it if he goes to another institution. And in order to avoid this situation, I think that by accepting our amendment, if such a patient appears to the director of the institution for a second opinion, we avoid the needs of manuals, bureaucratizing and sending from door to door, because this law can prescribe that the right to a second opinion is achieved by a request in the directory, the director on the basis of opinions, first opinions and documentation for first opinion. I know, you'll tell me how to charge. Find a way and decide not to be a patient who needs to get the papers, let it go automatically inside the system because it's not as much as these patients. Third, article 16 of the patient has the right to accept or refuse individual examinations, diagnostics, treatment or surgery unless, now, look, we had a recent case of one birth, if I am not mistaken in a Zagreb hospital that was due to severe bleeding to receive blood. And she said it out of religious beliefs, attitudes refused. So she did not want to receive blood even though all the doctors warned her that her health was at risk and that she might be at risk of her life and she still refused. If you do not accept our amendment to Article 16 it will appear that in such a case a doctor would have the right to make a forced transfusion despite the fact that the patient said she was aware of the risks but that religious rules prohibit her from receiving other people's blood. And that's why we feel that in this first sentence where this point is, to refuse, it has the right to refuse to put a point, the rest of the text is deleted because I really don't see the need to still fear that citizens, part of citizens, individuals can be aware of the fact for any reason, not just religious and say no, I don't want to receive no blood, I don't want to receive someone else's organ, I don't want to receive other people's tissue or other people's cornea because it's my decision. And if he does not want and thus endangers his life, why should a doctor put into a dilemma that by law we give him the right to intervene violently if a patient himself is aware of the facts that threaten him not to. The third, fourth thing, from the first version of the Law, the obligation to respect the patient's previously expressed will was Article 15, 16, 17, if I am not wrong about which I propose to return to the Law because this right if someone is in good sense to live, to use that term, to express his view of attitude and diagnostic procedures and procedures on his body, his body, to want or not to, in the event of such a need, that no one is conscious, so neither his guardian nor his guardian may change that decision. Therefore, a previously expressed desire that is clear, for example through a donor card or anything must be the first opinion that the doctor accepts or implements and only then possibly if he is not able, so the patient decides to seek the opinion of the guardian, spouse, children, parents, or anyone else. And given the time I end with Article 24 concerning Article 25, where I am about to prescribe that I, as a patient, may object that someone has an insight into my health records by a statement solimized by a public notary. Well, I mean, if we ask citizens to confirm with the public notary that my wife is not allowed to see my medical records, then we'll probably ask, in accordance with Article 25, that statement when a patient gives a statement that she has the right to be aware of the information she must also be with a publicly certified statement. Let us a little more trust to a citizen who is capable and able to give a written statement and sign in the presence of a doctor to respect it, to accept it and to a sick man by not making him go to the notebook or notebook to come to the hospital to make such a statement concerning his privacy and personality. I think that these procedures, even in this final text of the Law, would make it even easier to find a decision to support it during the vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24544	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HSLS Club, DC, a respected representative, Vice-President of the House, Mrs. Djurdja Adlesic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24545	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, colleagues and colleagues. I will talk on behalf of the Club about the final bill on the protection of the rights of patients and I see that many have already found that this Final Proposal of the Law is actually included part of certain proposals made by the parent and other working bodies, which are presented in the first reading, that the Law is in line with the provisions of the Law on Health Protection and Family Law which is good. However, there are some other principles that would really significantly improve this Law and also quite concrete amendments, and I hear that quite a number of amendments that are being prepared for this Law and, if part of those major amendments is accepted in that case, the Law could be acceptable to us. First I'm going to warn of, of course, the one part that we warned about and in the first reading that is here for unclear reasons is not fixed and it could have been this termological alignment of all the nouns. Namely, the nouns are still written in the male race, so I think we need to warn that other than patients, there are patients. Then I'm going to talk very specifically about articles that I think might be possible to fix. Article 2 states that each patient is guaranteed the general and equal right to quality and continuous health care appropriate to his health condition. However, what does quality and continuous health care mean if it is not timely to be quality? Of course and continuous. It must indeed be timely, which means that the patient is entitled to a service within the appropriate time limit. We are witnessing that numerous tests are waiting too long to wait for months, which of course is an important factor in the healing of patients. We know the sooner the search can be done, the sooner the cure can be said. However, there have been cases where patients waited in line for months and did not experience an appointment in the exams. Therefore, it is not possible to talk about the full health care of patients unless they are provided in due time, both search and treatment. Many citizens are when, when we had the opportunity to hear about the announcement of this Law and it is good that it was organised and public debate it is a way that the Law can and correct itself actually point out one question that I think the Deputy Prime Minister, or the Minister, should certainly answer even though I know it is not a conflict with the laws but a minimum should say what the arguments are and what possible measures are. So we ask ourselves how it is possible that if a patient wants to have an appointment at the hospital, he is forced to wait for months to follow his general practice manual. And if he shows willingness to do it in a private arrangement, which means he has money, that he can pay in that same hospital, and sometimes it's about health homes, on the same machine, that same search can sometimes take place on the same day or at least in a much shorter time. It is logical to apply such a procedure when it comes to private polyclinics, then the system is common and normal, however, the question arises what about hospitals that are still state-owned, so devices are used for private payment checks instead of being used entirely for patients who come with instructions. So it turns out that whoever has the money doesn't have to wait and whoever hasn't been waiting for months if they're waiting. The third article says that the protection of patients' rights in the Republic of Croatia is carried out on the principles of humanity and accessibility. These terms are, of course, acceptable, binding, but they also require a term and achievement because patients' rights should not only be protected but also achieved. It's their real point that's coming true. Of course, the principles of respect for basic human rights and medical ethics. By reading Article 6 which states that the patient has the right to co-determination, which includes the right of the patient to notify and to accept or refuse a particular diagnostic or therapeutic procedure. I claim that the term of co-decision is not precise or meaningful because in this case it assumes the consensus of doctors and patients. I think there'll probably still be talk about it here. That's what my colleague Lesar mentioned. Dr. Ivanish seems to me, too, so it doesn't always seem possible to achieve a consensus. The patient may refuse the proposed or any other solution, so it should, or a diagnostic search. It is therefore necessary to consider this term of co-decision and may, however, put the right to its own choice and to decide on its health care. In addition to the right to complete notification in the items referred to in Article 8 the patient should definitely be entitled to genetic information. So on notification in case of genetic disease of a patient or family member. There is also a problem with patients who do not speak Croatian, but also about patients who do not hear. Thus, the question arises how to ensure the right to information to people who do not hear. What about using sign language? Will the patient really have real insight into the real situation and whether they will be able to measure choice and decide if he does not understand what the doctor has told him? So there should be a patient's right and there included that patient understands the given information. Article 16 speaks of a diagnostic and therapeutic procedure that the patient has the right to accept or refuse. No rehabilitation procedure has been specified that takes an important place in the overall recovery of the patient. As regards the medical documentation to be sent to the patient after the doctor’s examination or treatment has been completed, I think it would be good to attribute the type and contents of the medical documentation to the patient after completion of the medical examination or treatment, rather than to leave it to some other laws. And the topic that's newer. That is, given the progress of genetics, the possibility of abuse of genetic material. It is necessary to adequately protect what is not regulated by this law, so it is necessary to add a new provision that will prescribe the protection of the patient's biological material from which the genetic properties of the patient can be revealed in terms of storage and use for purposes that are different from those of which these biological materials are also used. The availability of these materials should only be permitted for scientific research and is again approved by law only with written consent of the patient or his legal agents after the death of his legal heirs or legal agents. In addition to these concrete remarks and those of the first, principled but important I would like to warn of two other shortcomings in this law. Since it is the Law on the Rights of Patients I believe that this law is more than an adequate place for a clear definition of the right to compensation for patients, since patients may be and children should be incorporated into the law and their rights in accordance with the Convention on the Rights of Children and... a declaration of children's rights to health care. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And it's hard to say if it's working in this law for the two remarks I still want, I want to say. We are talking about demographic restoration, we are talking about cities that will disappear in Croatia because of the poor demographic image. We are witnessing that in the infirmary we can see advertising posters about breastfeeding, but I recently learned one piece of information that is worth thinking about and finding a solution to that measure. Namely, if the child who is breast-feeding is at the treatment of the mother has to pay for her stay in the hospital if I mean a distance of more than 10 or 20 kilometers. There you can ask yourself how much woman you are can allow. It depends, therefore, on their material potential. A systematic examination of women should also be reconsidered. So, Mr. Vice-President of the Government, in addition to these concrete objections to the law that will be written in the form of amendments and these principles if you accept this important part of the law we will support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24546	Thank you very much. The HSS club, the respected representative of Ljubica Lalić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24547	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, colleagues and colleagues. As he contributed to the debate on the bill on patients' rights, the Croatian Peasant's Club presented a whole series of remarks and proposals to improve the proposal until the second reading. Although the proposer states in his explanation that he accepted the comments of the Committee on Law, the Committee on Labour, Social Policy, Health and the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities and rejected part of the comments of the Committee on Labour, Health and Social Policy, the fact is that he also accepted a series of remarks from the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Peasant Party as well as from other clubs, and probably from a representative which is good. It is not good that the proposer does not wish to admit it by making it clear that only the parliamentary committees are quantifiable to deliver opinions that the applicant is obliged to consider. The Proposer is obliged in the same way as the same consideration to consider all proposals and committees and clubs and representatives. By reading the Final Proposal of the Law, we have come to the impression that the Proposer has done so, and the shortcomings in the explanation this time we will only try to consider a formal failure that certainly has no impact on the quality of the text itself and the content of the law. The Law on the Rights of Patients is considered a very important law because the quality of its solution will be felt by every citizen of the Republic of Croatia. The Law itself states in Article 1 that each person is ill or healthy who requests or is provided with a measure or service in order to preserve, improve health, prevent diseases and treat and care and rehab. So every citizen with the permission of very rare people who have never asked for medical attention. The fact arises from the obligation that, regardless of the political colour represented by the commentator, there is a legal solution which will indeed be in the function of the general good. By nature, patients are a very sensitive part of the population that therefore requires a special relationship and therefore, it is good that we pass this law. But the law itself will little or more precisely mean nothing unless his life is inhaled by proper and complete application. And realistically considering the possibility of full application, there is a high probability that we will be able to join the countries that in their legislation protect patients' rights by legalizing the principles contained in the 1994 Amsterdam Declaration. And that'll be all. Every principle of this law is very supportive, but we're realistic enough and we're brave enough to say what we think and that's it: the patient gentlemen are just passing this law for you and we're not going to change anything until the conditions for its application are established, and to that end it's still a long and thorny path. And if that were the case, here's an example. Article 2 of the Law states: "Every patient is generally guaranteed the same right to quality and continued health care in accordance with his health condition." So the emphasis is on general and equal law. How to allow the consumption of this right to all patients when there is a huge and inconclusive difference between our hospitals and other health institutions in terms of technical equipment and human resources. Of course, the more equipped they become with a resort and better professional staff, which is perfectly normal. Adequate equipment is easy to monitor the modern achievements of medical science and thus health care service better quality. There is no uniformity in us even as there are huge differences, and while it is so hypocritical to guarantee the general and equal right to quality and continuous health care for all patients. Furthermore, Article 4 states that the principle of humanity of patient rights is realised among other things by ensuring that patients are respected as human beings. There's nothing to object to. The patient is a very vulnerable person, and he's crying out for it. And now let's stop with both feet on the ground and try to wrap into the souls of the patients, which are 50 or more in one waiting room of 15 squares without windows and fresh air, simultaneously waiting from 6 a.m. Prior to that, by bus or by train, they were over 60 miles [60 km] without chairs or anything they could lean on. But they're waiting because they don't know from when to when to when to work in spite of reported working time. And then after several hours of waiting around 13 hours, the hospital voice is no longer heard. There's nothing left but a bus il train and a 60km home tomorrow by repeating Tantal's torments. Do these patients respect themselves as human beings? No, they don't feel or respect each other, and it doesn't take much. Maybe it's just less organized work and a big shift has been made. Furthermore, the law says that the principle of humanity, the protection of patients' rights, is achieved by protecting the personality of patients, including respect for their privacy. We're wondering what the proposer means to respect the patient's privacy. If it means what's logically only possible then we don't know how it's possible to respect the privacy of a patient who in a room with another 5, 6 or more lying patients and therefore the examinations are carried out in the room. And about the joint sanitary node for all the patients in the department not to talk. There is no protection of privacy under such conditions. By all accounts, we will have another law that will be in line with the legislative countries of the European Union. And the standards are far from European ones they simply stay Croatian for a long time. Obviously, the proposer is also aware of this, so in the second reading, we received a proposal that is better than the first reading proposal, but it is still a bad mix of Finnish and Hungarian facilities to protect patients' rights on the one hand, and existing practices in the Republic of Croatia on the other. In order to achieve and promote the right of patients under the law in each unit of the district self-government, the Commission for the Protection of Patients' Rights will be established. Each of them will have 5 members appointed on the basis of a public call by the County Assembly from the ranks of patients, NGOs and experts in the area of the protection of patients' rights. The commissions will act with the management body of the county responsible for healthcare affairs. And that form will be satisfied, with the appointments and the patients will have little use for it. A patient who thinks that his right is violated will have to write his own complaints to the director of a health care facility. If no action has been taken in connection with the complaint within eight days, it shall have the right to appeal to the Commission. This may escalate its goal in another country, but in a country where, according to the census, as much as 7% is illiterate and even 20% has no completed primary school, we keep that solution a failure. The commission or better commissioner should be available to patients at any time, and give them help because most often the patient doesn't even know his rights. Although we know that for a long time this law will not be revived in practice by the Croatian Peasant's Club of Representatives, it is necessary to find solutions that would be acceptable to most of those whose law is intended. Perhaps for that purpose, it is necessary to refer the law to the third reading. Finally, we realize that the goal of Croatia is not only to comply with the laws of the European Union countries but is to achieve European standards. And then the laws will be a natural consequence and a reflection of the real state and practice.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24548	Thank you, dear colleague Lalic. Next up is Club Libre colleague Zeljko Pavlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24549	Dear Madam Vice President, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. Let me briefly say a few words about the final bill on the protection of patients' rights. The Libre Club a few months ago supported a bill on the protection of patients in the first reading. With some of the remarks we were hoping for, they would be accepted in this second reading, but that didn't happen. At least some other observations have been accepted that have improved the law. But we also hope that some of our amendments will be accepted. In order for this law to be as high-quality and as essential as possible. And not to be a seed catalogue of the right patients without guarantee, it will be accomplished. Also, Club LIBRE warns that only passing this Act cannot solve the problems our patients and patients have daily in some of our hospitals. From the waiting list of health care availability, medical errors of bribery and so on. The Club LIBRE also warns of the difficult material situation in the health system and the question is whether this law on such conditions can fully liven up. We might as well say that health care is in a state of emergency. Also with the minister after 5 months of taking over the ministry, he notes that the health system will produce new billions of debts that are not in the budget in 2004. According to the calculation of the Deputy Prime Minister of Health himself, the monthly health loss in 2004 amounts to 250 million kuna. And in the first five months, it exceeds the total debt that has been made for the past four years. TO SEE what these means should be said that this debt would be enough for half the amount needed to complete all hospitals in the Republic of Croatia over 7 years. Just to remind you, the plan of the former ministry and the government predicted that in seven billion kunas, many hospitals are being renovated or built throughout Croatia. The Club LIBRE also points out that due to the insecurity of the health system, more and more drug consumption is being recorded and the deadline for these same medicines by the Croatian Institute of HZZO is increasing and currently more than 200 days and more. The consumption of sanitary material as well as the consumption of supplementary insurance has also increased, resulting in all hospitals in Croatia breaking their budgets and some in over 50%. Well, in our opinion, there's something urgent to be done here. And it's about Article 5 of this law that speaks. That the principle of availability of access to the protection of patients' rights implies equal protection of the rights of all patients in the Republic of Croatia. So there's this problem of harmonising funds for regular activity, so-called. Limit of consumption, i.e. the harmonisation of the consumption limit with the actual cost of hospital work, since, with the imposed consumption limits prescribed by the HZZ, it cannot be done positively. For example, it can serve us. The Chakovec County Hospital, which has lost more than 5 million kuna due to the imposed unrealistic limit. Let me point out here that it is safe for the most rational hospital in Croatia or one of the most rational, so it is for example. The cost of eating per patient in the Chakovez hospital is 4,800 kuna and in the Sibenik 12,800 kuna. It is unknown why the hospital in Čakovec has a monthly bed cost of 22.872 kuna, and in 23 general hospitals in Croatia, Gospić is the only one with a smaller limit. All other hospitals have a greater limit, whether because of the inflatable costs that no one controls up to 30,000 kunas, and the average is 26,000 kuna. It is the view of LIBRE that in this case we must protect the right of patients to have the same level of health care, i.e. the need to introduce uniform restrictions guaranteeing quality health care, which is, in fact, in accordance with Article 5 of this Act. Let me introduce you to our legal, legal initiative in the context of this debate. about our law that we've referred to in Parliament's procedure. It is the Health Protection Act, which is based on the basic right of the patient to have a choice in treatment in any hospital regardless of its status or ownership. We can also link it to Article 5 of this Act. Therefore, according to our proposal, which in the parliamentary procedure should put all hospitals in the Republic of Croatia in the same position and provide for all investment funds from the state budget, and not only those in the area of special state care, because there are hospitals in other areas that operate in very poor conditions. Let me now propose on behalf of the Club of Libre some amendments that we think would improve the law, and I will only present one, and the other amendments are similar, we have already heard them in the debate. In the discussion in the first reading, we warned that the Law should make it clear that the obligation to keep patient health notices. Each patient pursuant to Article 8 shall be entitled to complete notification of his or her condition on his or her oral request to be given by a healthcare professional who directly provides the patient with a specific form of health care pursuant to Article 9. Before the first reading of this Law we mentioned, then an actual event about the divine appearance of cow madness, and this was written in large letters on the front pages of some of our newspapers, as is the increasingly sad custom with us. Thus, in a patient whose name was mentioned, even the place in which she lived, it was found on the front pages of the newspaper, articles with all possible data on her and her family were also written, and there was no need to speak about what such titles meant for the patient and her family and that in such a way the basic rights of the patient were violated, which is the right to peace and dignity at a difficult time, as well as the right to privacy and to physical and mental integrity. For this reason, we propose to supplement Article 28 which speaks of the right to privacy, so that it reads: "In the examination or treatment of personal care, and especially in the application of the right to notification, the patient has the right to privacy conditions". Why does it matter? This is important because by extending this article, they could therefore introduce criminal provisions according to primarily medical staff and medical staff who provide such information to the public, and this would go beyond Article 41, which would punish medical institutions and responsible persons who are not authorised to provide the information referred to in Articles 8 and 9 of this Law. So it is this amendment for which we would pray to include, if possible or in any other form in this Law and then be willing to support this Law as a whole. So again, pointing out that the rights of patients will not depend on the adoption of this law alone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24550	Thank you, colleague. We have one correction to an incorrect quote. Representative Mršić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24551	Well, I'd just like to correct my colleague, Pavlica. It is not true that the smallest limit has the County Hospital in Chakovec. The smallest limit has the County Hospital in Koprivnica.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24552	Thank you very much. Let's move on with the debate on behalf of the clubs. On behalf of the IDS Club, representative of Doroteja Pesic-Bukovac. Here you go, pal.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24553	Honorable Vice President, Your Honor, Deputy Prime Minister. Here, I was extremely, I must say, pleased at the 6th month of this year when we came to the clubs of the Law on the Protection of Patients' Rights in the Regular Procedure, so I felt that there would be plenty of time to respect the objections arising from the debate itself, but also to respect public opinion and remarks on the subject. Because as many associations have seen it, they've made an effort to send their amendments. As far as I'm aware, there have been over 200 amendments, and of course there have been a lot of comments from clubs and from the representatives themselves. As far as IDS is concerned, we advocate third reading, because it is indeed a large matter of all amendments, and I don't think it is important that we adopt this law just because of our compliance with the European Union, it is really important that this law is applicable in function as well. For the IDS Club, this law is very important matter, surely one of the most important, and cannot be seen only from the health care system. But when we talk about health care, whether it's primary, specialist or hospital treatment, the situation is getting worse every day, because because of the cost cuts year after year, our health care must be getting worse. Last time I talked about a river cardiology that was practically closed due to a lack of consumable material. This time I want to look back, maybe for example. Zagreb, because we read in the newspaper these days that there are many problems also in Zagreb. If we look at the average age of Croatian citizens, then we get to number 74, which is 75th in the world by the world health organization. So we have a pretty old population who really needs to be treated and practically all of these people are also patients, but we also have 1 million cc's of children, not to mention how many unemployed we also need health care, and I think this law practically concerns every citizen of this country since they were born and until they die. Whether all the population in Croatia has the right to be treated as patients, whether they have the right to wait for months or even years for some examinations. Here, I can only give you a few examples. 7,500 patients are waiting for the CT head in Zagreb, because the first free term is only 15.08.2005. 2,500 people waiting for a gastroscopy, 2,500 waiting for a cardiologist's examination, 3,000 waiting for a mammogram only at Peter's hospital. So diagnostic tests to detect heart disorders, brain circulation or gastrointestinal examinations this year can't be done. The reasons for long-term waiting are certainly outdated and insufficient appliances and the lack of educated medical staff to work on second shifts. Same as another example can point out that we can safely see the right of patients through the emergency medical system, because we are witnessing these days that in Zagreb due to too few emergency teams, teams must choose which patients will save. No one can convince me that for more than one million inhabitants here in Zagreb there are enough 20 emergency medical teams, and they certainly have over 500 interventions during the day, of course with worse vehicles and with pretty old vehicles. We in the IDS think that we need health care or the right of patients not only on paper, but that we can realise and consume this right when we are naturally at risk of health. So we suggest that the law goes into the third reading, because from the first to the second reading, it seems to me that too little time has passed for all the remarks that have been made on this legal text. As for the very name of the Law on the Protection of Patients' Rights, we in the IDS suggest that this law is called the Law on Patients' Rights, not on the protection of patients' rights. Our legislation also lacks other laws so that this law could be applied, and these are the Law on euthanasia, the Law on the archiving of medical records, because so far it has not been established what medical documentation is, how it is kept and for how long. Comparing the first reading and this final proposal that the IDS had made, I saw that only one remark was accepted, and it was that it was accepted that the commission at local level was paid, of course from the budget of the units of local self-government. I see that everything else is the same, although we in the IDS consider it good that at local level the County Assembly is making a decision on which to be members of the committee. However, without any criteria, it seems to me that there is not a good choice of people who will be sitting in these committees. As far as the state level is concerned, in my view, there is a lot of illogicalness, because if at the local level the commission is appointed to the county assembly, I don't see why it is proposed here at the state level to be a minister, because if it corresponds as it is at local level, then I think the Parliament would be the one to confirm the members of that committee. And I also see in one part of the conflict of interest that the three representatives of the ministry are in the commission itself. As for the regulations that bring in units of local self-government, I think it is the same, it may be a charm, because since we have 21 and 20 counties plus the City of Zagreb, I think that each county will then be able to bring in the rule of law at its discretion and that it will be quite a charm then, meaning that some rules should be made for all of them. And I don't see the state-level commissions being paid as much as at local level. I think it dropped out of this, okay. Here I really propose as IDS to go into third reading, because there may still be shortcomings in Article 43 where transitional and final provisions are, where local self-government units are said to be appointed by the Commission within 2 months of the date of entry into force of this law, but you can't see what if they don't do so. So I think we really need more debates about this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24554	Thank you very much to my colleague. Next up is Club HSU, representative of Silvano Hrelja. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24555	Honorable Vice President, Your Honor, Deputy Prime Minister. The Croatian Party of Retired Party Club welcomes and supports the adoption of this law and wants to believe that this law is not a mere alignment with European legislation in a way that we can admire the fact that we have a law, and then there is no expiry of this law but that it is a step in the new quality of civil participation in the domain of human rights. But I must say that the proposal for this law, and so this final proposal did not arise in one desirable democratic way. That this is what many civil society associations are saying on this final proposal and even new ideas on protecting patients' rights. The proposer of this law must accept the fact that civil society associations are not decorations on a cake of democracy but are the constructive material and cake called "democracy", therefore the wrong approach to not including all civil society associations dealing with this problem at the stage of draft law and achieving a kind of consensus on a sustainable model from an economic point of view and level of law. All civil society associations generate certain revenue for labour programmes, including from the state budget, from the county budgets, cities and municipalities and other sources, and are also obliged to contribute to the development and construction of systems. Associations are a resource to be used by including in all walks of society, so it is incomprehensible that the proposing does not account or use resources that can in advance test the credibility of the law and functionality of the system. It would certainly avoid the situation if, on the final draft of the law, civil society associations intervened with a brand-new institute in the role of protecting patients' rights. For this new institution of attorneys, i.e. the Ombudsman for patients, at this point we cannot say that it would be better or worse than the proposed solution, but we can say that there is a late solution unless most MPs have declared that we are going to have a third reading, which I doubt because all the committees on this final bill have given a positive assessment. I must point out that the motioner has respected a good part of the essential remarks and suggestions made by the Croatian Retirement Party and installed them in the final draft of the law which makes us extremely pleased in the party. We'd like to suggest another one. We believe that this law would better fit the name of the Law on Patients' Rights, and it is quite logical that the law has provisions on the protection of these rights and that should not be particularly pointed out in the title. We propose that the law be aligned with the provisions of the Law on Gender Equality and Article 24 with the provisions of the Law on Equal Communities. Regardless of our opinions and worldly views, we must respect all applicable laws without exception and without any exception. We propose to develop an education and training programme for non-verified knowledge in the capacity to master the skills of participation, co-decision and opinion. As a society, Croatia, we are very poor with teamwork, which is why we always lack experience, skills and knowledge for teamwork. I know that personally from my practice. This and, therefore, in order to achieve a standard of commission work and communication between committees in the function of creating moral criteria and establishing positive practices that thus become generally good. We propose that the commission in the section on the work of the commission must be incorporated into the provision that the commission delivers its opinion. Of course, aside from the cost of the commission's work, resources for the implementation of the training and education programme should also be provided. For the quality of the work of the commission, it will be necessary to define health standards and a basket of health services covered by general health insurance and other insurance in order to allow the commission to decide crediblely on patients' rights violations and to launch appropriate actions. We lack an entire chapter that should be called the protection of patients from bureaucracy, dysfunction, inertness, non-transparency and technological subinvestment of the health system. Nor does this law provide an answer to how to protect a patient from waiting for medical services from 3 to 6 months and to preventative checks in specialist-consular health care within which the illness can progress to tragic consequences. The Croatian party of pensioners will try to supplement and correct individual articles of this law in the function of improving the whole. We believe that this is not a law for all time, but this is an important step in our behaviour and the resuscitation of the postulate of civil democracy, and that it will need to be coordinated with the construction of a sustainable health system. The Croatian party of pensioners will also be positively determined according to all the amendments that will contribute to the overall quality of this law according to our assessment and support the adoption of this law by respecting the fact that it is difficult to protect the patient in sick health. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24556	Thank you very much. One notice. In accordance with Article 207(2), Rules of Procedure, it is time to apply for a 10-minute hearing. Now it's SDP's turn, MP Zeljka Antunovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24557	Madam Vice President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. The way in which patients' rights are protected has long been discussed, and therefore we estimate that the time of the present is actually the right time to define such an act. We believe that the law in question should be met with one basic objective. In our opinion, it should coordinate and clearly define the relationship between patients, declared rights from all types of insurance and health professions, i.e. health institutions. It must be concrete and clear, effective in achieving and not only in protecting the rights of patients, and it is not acceptable to discuss it as a declarative act that will formally satisfy the growing pressures of civil society or signed conventions in the field of protection of human rights or only the mere harmonisation of European legislation. I believe that we can all agree that the declared and insurance rights of patients in Croatia are very broad and that it is not a problem in this area but that the main problem arises in the area of their achievement. It would be extremely wrong to refer this law to only the protection of patients against possible errors or the unethicalness of medical staff but to the system failures that generates the condition in which the patient's right is compromised and that no one is responsible for this right now. It should be very careful that the responsibility of a poor and irresponsible health administration from the ministry to the lowest level of management in the health care sector would not only be transferred to a possible non-compliance with health procedures or which could be even more dangerous, a hickey to health care personnel. With what's the biggest problem with us, I'm afraid no one's seriously dealing with today. The political relationship of the ministry, the opportunism in the health sector, the abstention of the loud criticism of the existing and the proposal to improve the system, fear of shifts or accusations and prosecutions, interesting lobbying without clear criteria in the procurement procedures for the development and modernisation of health, all of this has to result in stopping or slowing down most of the reform processes and what is most tragic, directly enhanced endangerment of the patient's rights. Because I hope you'll agree, patient rights are the most vulnerable at a time when a patient's health care can't get at all like that. in the case where the financial restrictions of the department or hospital have been spent, and today we are very often faced with exactly that kind of situation. In such cases, doctors today reject patients indefinitely, usually already being transferred to the next financial year because they do not want to risk calling them for losses or reporting to the state's attorney's office in the worst case. In the law that we received in the debate, Article 5 mentioned it here today, I mean with great right, is the principle of humanity and accessibility. Well, humanity seems unquestionable to me in our health care, but availability is questionable in which, my impression, it seems, is that availability, that under availability, is usually just a fact of how far from my apartment or my house, from my sick bed is a health care facility, and whether I, as a patient living, don't know in some remote village, I need to spend the same kilometers and the same time to get to a doctor. I think that such treatment of access to healthcare is completely wrong, because the problem of inaccessibility in Croatia today is precisely in this area where there is a declarative right to get health care, but when I want to achieve it, then there is a hundred and one reason why the patient can't do it. So when we loudly state our position that a law that has a chance to at least improve patients' rights is necessary, even necessary. We warn of the danger of being abused or misused as an alibi for today's or any future health administration that is not or will not be able to solve problems systematically. And patients, they are unfortunately executed in the mazes of bureaucracy and political reckonings, they understand nothing, and right now they are the only ones paying taxes, so on. Savings that aren't at all. Money is spent equally and waiting lists are growing. And that's a key sentence that points to a threat to the rights of our patients. The benefits of this moment have only interesting and political lobbies, which, by virtue of obedience, enter into the magical circle of similarity. There was also talk here today about what was and what was not accepted after the first reading as observations. The final draft of the law gives the impression that many of the remarks were not taken into account at all except, and this is what someone was saying today, the objections made to the amendments or the amendments made to the Committee. However, a broad public interest that deserves greater attention, if, for nothing else, it is because of the fact that the pressure of civil society has at all cited the past, and the present and probably future administration that they are considering this problem at all, that they deserve greater attention and that, apart from the observations made here in the Assembly, it seems to me, on boards, it was necessary to take into account and consider all those remarks that came from a whole series of associations dealing with either patients' rights or human rights in general. In the process of preparing this Act, in order to overcome this unacceptable situation for us, the SDP, in cooperation with various civil initiatives, has proposed a comprehensive and comprehensive amendment that changes the bill as a whole. For this reason, we propose that the Parliament make a decision on the final text of the law to be forwarded to the third reading and that until then a political and professional consensus be reached on the amendments that have put a great and serious effort on the wide range of experts. Since the number of amendments is large and there is no room for me to fully explain them here in front of the SDP Club, let me only warn of the key amendment under which the Institute of the Protection of Patients' Rights would replace the Ombudsman's institute. Perhaps this is a bold step and will likely cause a number of controversy, but we also advocate a third reading, so that these polemics can gain space and that those who will pollomise them regardless of whether for or against such an institution can make their arguments. Although the amendments provide for the establishment of an independent lawyer, we remain open to different organisational solutions, such as the possibility of a special assistant within the Ombudsman's Office. We also presented our proposal on the Committee on Labour, Health and Social Policy, where the minister's position was rejected. Today again, this time towards the Parliament, we propose the adoption of amendments or a conclusion on the conduct of a third reading that seems more reasonable and acceptable to us. We believe that accepting a third reading, I repeat, would be a reasonable solution that would contribute to the adoption of a better law and a more effective exercise of patients' rights. As much as it would be politically wise, it seems to me that it's too much to talk about here, but I think that from well-intentioned suggestions, even if this kind of thing, you should never give up. This time they are extremely well-intentioned and it seems to us that they are leading in the direction of trying and trying to at least about something like this proposal we achieve a truly political and professional consensus. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24558	Thank you. We have one rectification of the quote and one replica. First is the correction of the quote, Mrs. Ivana Sučec-Tracostanec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24559	I'm correcting the incorrect allegations of a fellow MP, and I don't know if it's the SDP's club's quote or her personally because, on behalf of the club, she was presenting some of her personal observations, that they were, that patients knew nothing. So that's how you underestimate, and you don't understand in that sense. So, that's how underestimating patients I don't think it's right. It may occur that I'm getting circumstances some don't know something, so this law is on the verge of finding out. However, I claim that patients today know very much about the health care system and their rights, thanks to the doctors and medical staff who guide them, and also to this red tape that is so raving against. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24560	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. Stjepan Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24561	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. I would refer to Mrs Antunovic's presentation with a few of my remarks. I think this is again an attempt to talk through this Law on Patients' Rights about problems in the health care system in general, which I don't think is very appropriate. It has been said that the achievement of health care cannot be solved by this Law. Well, this law doesn't even claim to solve it. This Law is one in a series of laws that already exist in the health care system, the Health Protection Act, the Health Insurance Act. So all these questions there are resolved and patients' rights are protected. In fact, this is about a law that regulates only when it comes to the patient-medical relationship, i.e. a patient-health institution where this service is provided. So that's quite another pitch, I'd say. It has also been said that hospital restrictions are a problem for themselves and that there are actually no patients' rights, that money is being spent equally, and practically nothing is happening. I'd still remind you of some facts and some numbers. At the beginning of this year, it was spent in the health care system 25% more than in the same period last year. Now, after a nine-month report, that's what the figures say, only five percent more is spent. Therefore, with much less money is treated according to health statistics 1% more cases, or patients. Therefore, more services are given with less money. I find this not true and in any case these amendments that are mentioned to improve this Law cannot be accepted and there is no need for this Law to go into third reading.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24562	Thank you very much. Replication response, Mrs. Zeljka Antunovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24563	Well, I'll, in fact, just repeat definitely that there is a discrepancy between thinking about what this law should solve. I'm saying he shouldn't be a declarative act, and that's why I said we needed to solve the system in order to achieve patients' rights. And the system is bad and the system generates problems with the exercise of these rights. Patients cannot resolve their elemental right to achieve health care because we have a problem in the system. I made it very clear, I can accept that someone disagrees, but as long as we don't agree, as long as we don't solve the system, this will all be just some parliamentary or political message that won't provide even the protection of the right and even less the right of patients. I didn't tell the truth that it's spending the same amount of money without the patients getting anything. I said it's all the same to spend, and the waiting lists are increasing and growing. And that's a fact that seriously warns not only me, which should be seriously alerted above all completely again by the health administration to look for instruments and ways to get out of it. And yet another small controversy, you say that with less money you cure more patients. I don't know what this is about. As far as I know when the budget was being passed, then there was more money, and the patients were certainly gone, because either our nation was seriously starting to be sicker than it was, because the fact that waiting lists for those serious and complex procedures, not when we go to a doctor for a cold, are inexorably growing.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24564	Thank you very much. That's what the club debates are over with. So I'm asking the vice president and the minister of Mr. Hebran who answered. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24565	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. With a few words to look back on what was said for this pay phone, just to avoid any misunderstandings. It's been told a whole series of wrong data, so there's no confusion, and I'm going to bring them in line with this law. First of all, I'm glad all the clubs have adopted this bill, so there's no need for third reading. And I must immediately say that a hundred amendments that arrived with Mr. Zoran Pusic's signature on behalf of a civil society came two days ago, and the Parliament is in debate for several months. So there was no theoretical possibility that we were even discussing these amendments two days ago, a hundred of them. But later, of course, I read them. In these amendments there are absolutely no things that belong to this Law, everything that is said there already exists in the five laws that I spoke of at the outset. So they're actually completely unnecessary. So, I refuse to comment on the fact that we haven't taken into account the opinion of civil society, and we've taken it very seriously over these three, four months of contact with them, the law has been in public debate long enough for anyone who wanted to contribute well-intentionedly to it could have in those over 150 days as much as it was in the public debate. And the amendments that arrived on the day of work of the Assembly Committees could definitely not have been considered by the legislator. Several objections were made to the health organization system that this Law had absolutely nothing to do with it. I'll just mention a few of those. It was said that the waiting lists were growing from day to day. So, we've cut the waiting lists for the past 10 months by 11%. We've reduced 11% by reorganizing the hospital work system, unfortunately not by additional money, because they're not in the budget as you know. The point was why, what is the patient's right to pay for it early? The Health Insurance Act defines the basic right of the patient. Its right is that if the disease is acute, it will be admitted immediately, no matter where or when it is registered, regardless of the place of residence and the location of the facility. However, the Law also states that if the disease is not acute, then the patient goes to the waiting list. What are the waiting lists? The waiting lists are in Croatia on the European Monday and this is significantly better than the European December. And let's not forget there are much richer health systems. We, of course, believe that the waiting lists are on the European Monday, and many European member states of the European Union have longer waiting lists than Croatia, we still have one commission led by Assistant Minister Ljubic is tasked with reducing these lists and constantly reducing the lists and reorganising the system. And in the new budget, this task will be the specific item in which the financial account will be kept. Question, why can the patient come right away for money? Because money's not in the Health Insurance Act. If he pays cash, then he does not pay and is not treated under the Health Insurance Act, but is treated by supplementary insurance in that part of capacity that is not contracted with HZZ, so which are surpluses. Although the hospital has 30 extra beds, of course it will give the patient who pays his own priority, have them on the way be told very little. Question, why is a patient out of business time for money to come? That's the question I ask, it's the legal provision of the last government, and I never agreed with it, but she's here, and we have to respect her. I also believe that the same institution should not mix cash payments with other insurance with the same doctor in the same rooms, because there is a conflict of interest and possibly a subconscious delay with the checkup so that the patient comes in the afternoon for cash payment. But please, the law is here, and we must respect it if this honorable house doesn't change it on our proposal, which we will prepare. The next thing you know, it was set up a few times, it's a misrepresentation of working hours. It's like the doctors don't work, they're unemployed, they're gone at work, and when the patient gets in line, the doctor goes home. That's where I have to hold the protest, because objective indicators are different. Over the past 8 years, there have been 1284 remarks, or complaints from patients, on over 100 million health services provided. Which is somewhere on the level of one spill. And by that we can be proud of the system and of the professional relationship between both doctors and nurses and all others in the system in relation to the material conditions in which they work. The next thing I think we should point out here are patients entitled to privacy when there are five to six in the room? They're right, but they don't have a chance. They don't have the option because with 14 billion kunas we have a yearly budget, there's no new hospital, new hospital capacity, because there's no money for it. Therefore, the declaration of the rights of patients of the European Union in Article 5 states that the rights of patients listed are in line with the financial opportunities of society. Of course he can't have the same right to privacy, he can, but he can't realise it in Germany and Croatia, when the difference in gross national income is 1:5 to 6. Therefore, this is foreseen and these are all, these all facts that are here are in accordance with the said Article 5. European declarations. Next thing you know, it's that debt here is said to grow 250 million a year, etc. That's where you have to tell and repeat the truth. We inherited 7 billion 300 million total debt, of which 3 billion commitments were made only for drugs and 3 billion for medical products. In this year we paid back 3 billion debt, 2.5 billion was HZZO's debt to banks, 523 million extra out of the budget for wholesales, and thus saved the system from collapse, because a number of wholesales have already sued health institutions and put blockades on their account, means the inability to pay for services. As for the expenditure, we inherited a system in which in January it was said by a representative of the primerius Bačić, I will only add in January the average hospital had expenditures 24% higher than income in January. In September, it had an average expenditure of 5.4% of its income. Because I'm reorganizing a system I don't have time to talk about right now. At the same time, the number of hospitalized patients increased by 1.06%, so expenditure did not go to a small number of patients. How many polyclinic services are we now calculating the ambulatory. Because of the 20 measures we have introduced all state-owned hospitals, they are now liquid in the sense that they do not have an excess of revenue expenditure and patients' rights are therefore significantly improved. And in the end, there was a sentence given for cutting money every year health care is getting weaker. It's not true, because every year the money gets higher and higher. It was 14, this one was 14 billion, the next I hope will be 15 billion and the IMF and the World Bank warn us that 8.7% of the GDP we spend on health care is the most in Europe, and that we must urgently reduce it. So we spend a lot more than the European average. It's about the world that I'm not talking about because it's different. Why? Because we don't have a patient's payment. In European Union countries, the patient pays a significant part of the service alone from the pocket, medicines 16%, hospitals with about 20 percent. We don't have that, and that's how much the budget is smaller. If we decide to go to a system where the patient pays 15 to 20% of the standard will certainly rise and we will be leveled very quickly with the European system but it is a matter of political decision. And finally, I don't think this law should be mixed with the organisation of health care because it's settled entirely on other laws that when we propose their amendments we'll have opportunities to discuss extensively. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24566	Thank you very much. We have two corrections to incorrect allegations. First Mrs. Zeljka Antunovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24567	I actually have a few corrections of incorrect allegations but I'm going to sum it up in very short. In fact, if there really is a 7.3 million kuna debt that every so many ministers repeat. ... Billions of debt why, then, the minister has not given that debt a specification for my explicit request on the board for ten months. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I'm afraid the word is the same as when it comes to the claim list of waiting that the reduction... Because these are the facts that fall within the category of untruths that the minister occasionally says about what he was talking about here alone with this assembly room. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And finally, it's an incorrect assumption that all clubs have passed the law and there's no need for a third reading. Namely, three benches specifically asked for a third reading.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24568	Thank you very much. The second correction to the incorrect allegations by Ms. Milanka Opačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24569	I am correcting the incorrect allegations of Minister Hebrang, who said that at a time when HDZ took over the government that Mr Hebrang had saved the system from collapse and that the wholesalers were then preparing to sue. Mr Hebrang, unfortunately you did not save the system from collapse and you did not stop the lawsuit because according to the latest since, compared to the previous payment deadline, the period of payment of medicines has increased to 200 days, the Croatian pharmaceutical chamber has announced that it will sue HZZO.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24570	Thank you very much. We're moving on to an individual debate. The first one is Madam Representative Vesna Škulić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24571	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! Given the high percentage of people with disabilities in the total share of the population, this law does not determine the problem of persons with disabilities and their specific rights in the position of the patient. Although the national single policy strategy for people with disabilities from 2003 to 2006 has, in a certain way, been committed by the Ministry of Health in one of its points, I quote that it will develop in accordance with the Health Protection Act health protection measures with a proposal for implementation in order to improve the provision of malquality health care to persons with disabilities. Unfortunately, I have nothing to say about quality because it is not, but I can do much more about everything that prevents the system from being available to all users on the principles of justice and equal access to the necessary health services. I'll look back at a few segments. Accessibility. Unfortunately, we still have a large number of hospitals, hospitals, and health homes that do not meet the basic accessibility criteria. In this way, the right to treat and choose a doctor is difficult for mobile and immobilised persons. Since the first reading of this legislative proposal on the ground, almost nothing has moved. There is still only one gynaecological clinic available for women in wheelchairs. About 120,000 people with mental retardation also live in Croatia. Due to the specificity of the mental state, a specific approach to dental treatment is also needed. In Croatia, however, there are only two dental clinics specialized in dental services for people with mental retardation who work in a way to put the patient to sleep. Furthermore, this law does not allow patients with disabilities to be made available information in an acceptable form by translation into sign language, using Braille's letter to ensure respect for fundamental human rights such as the right to equality before the law, the right to information, the right to obtain information, the right to access medical documentation, the right to accept or refuse a particular diagnostic or therapeutic procedure. By providing information in their acceptable form, it would not be necessary to highlight in particular the way in which a blind, deaf or deaf person is given consent to the acceptance or refusal of a particular diagnostic or therapeutic procedure. They deny the right to their own choice and decision and proposes that they authorise a business capable person who accepts or refuses any such procedure on their behalf. I stress that blind, deaf and deaf persons are not persons who cannot make their own decisions and have a contained business ability. It is necessary to consider changing existing legislation to ensure the patient's right to choose both therapeutic procedures and rehabilitation facilities in order to allow disabled patients to be treated in those rehabilitation centres that are closest but with the best results in rehabilitation given the degree and type of disability. It is also necessary to provide for parents of children with difficulty in developing the right to stay in health institutions, i.e. on permanent accommodation and diets with no charge and the right to stay out of work without jeopardising working status. It is necessary to consult the National Biotics Commission for Medicine on the conduct of research on a business incapacitated patient and patient who is not capable of judgment. Namely, the term of a patient who is not able to reason in Article 21 or a patient with a severe mental disorder Article 17 does not allow the distinction of patients with severe mental retardation who must be represented by his legal representative or guardian from patients with mild... who can give or refuse consent themselves. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] As a representative, I find it very difficult to talk about personal experiences but because of the very open possibility that things can happen and repeat themselves. I, as a 13 - year - old girl, ended up in an institution that specializes in neuromuscular disorders or muscle dystrophy. Since the disease is progressive, it is very difficult to predict the dynamics of progression. I and four other of my peers, without the knowledge of our parents, were taken to another institution and conducted one treatment or experiment, and after a few months we ended up in a wheelchair. Our parents and we never learned the truth about whether it was necessary or whether the progression was due to the disease. That's why I've talked about it, and I'm asking that this law put a special emphasis on children who are suffering from progressive or chronic illnesses and who are located in specialized hospitals where parents can't come and follow the therapeutic procedure over their child. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24572	Thank you very much. There's a word Mr. Representative Drago Prgomet. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24573	Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, Mr. Vice President of the Government! In addition to constitutional provisions and several laws, above all the Health Protection Act and the Health Insurance Act, this must be the most important law that regulates patients' rights and within that scope. human rights that are universal and not from the scope of patient health care, although here, after some discussions, it would be concluded that we were talking about the Health Protection Act and not about the Law on Patients' Rights. However, I think you will all agree that there is no law that can regulate fully what should be the essence of this Law but also the relationship between health care professionals, a patient, and that is mutual trust. Therefore, with the importance of this Law, it is very important that all those involved in the process and preparation of the Law but also in the treatment work precisely to build that trust, and on this side I see the role and effort of a series of associations that have contributed to their amendments and proposals in the final appearance of this Law. However, I must admit that some week ago when this Law arrived on the Committee on Labour and Health, I read in the paper the declaration of an association called the Association of Croatian Patients and said this way: “If the Law is not passed and our amendments are not accepted, our patients will still be left to the mercy and mercy of healthcare professionals”. I have to admit that an incorrect and inappropriate finding that certainly doesn't contribute to what I've been talking about is building mutual trust. It is not true among other things and what Professor Hebrang said in the introduction and I will also refer to the results of the survey that took place during 2001 and/02. The Ministry of Health conducted among patients treated in health institutions that it was the least noticeable part of the patient-medicine relationship, far more to what is our reality and this is a matter of accommodation, a question of food, etc. Of course not for that reason but I really don't see the need to refer this Law to a third reading since the Law is of quality to really speak about those segments of patients' rights to be spoken of and most of them are listed, therefore, from the right to informed consent, regulated rights to procedures in medical research, the right to a second opinion, etc. And I'm afraid some of these amendments that have been proposed would not only be inconclusive but would cause exactly the opposite effect of what they wanted in order to get a law that would not be what we often call a Scandinavian or a Scandinavian model of the law but I'm afraid would lead to an Americanization of health care where for the patient's health, more often the opinion of a lawyer rather than a doctor is more important. So we would now come from a situation where we want to make a subject out of a patient in the treatment process, get an object but not medically but primarily legal thinking. Absolutely supporting this Law because of the proposal to protect all those who are ill and knowing the state of not only the difficult physical condition but also probably the most significant mental, emotional... in such a situation, I would also like to highlight the need to enable medical staff to transfer such rights and to grant such rights and in a certain way to share responsibilities with patients for their health, treatment and success in the treatment process. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So even though today we are talking about a law that regulates the protection of the rights of one of the parties involved in the treatment process, bearing in mind that without satisfactory medical staff it is really hard to expect that we will have a satisfied patient. It is necessary to evaluate and enable the work of medical staff under the conditions of modern technological achievements, to provide them with normal vocational education, but thanks to this Act it is necessary to enable education... the sense of communication, communication skills, rights and so on. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Because it is certain that without this particular part of it, without this segment that actively participates in healthcare, it is very difficult that one law, however good it is, will achieve those effects as we do, and so do we. I therefore believe that such a law was absolutely necessary, that it was extremely qualified, that it included those proposals that arrived during the summer and that such a law should be accepted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24574	Thank you very much. It is now Madam Representative Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic's turn.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24575	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. In the difference between the solutions proposed in relation to the solutions proposed by this final draft of the law, the Government may, in particular, be speaking through the ministry in a way that only the committees spoke about, the colleague Ljubica Lalic already spoke on behalf of the HSS Club. And why am I stressing this right now? Because it seems to me that it's very indicative then the ministry's relationship when it only sees bodies, sees commissions and doesn't see man. How, then, will he recognize a patient if he doesn't see a representative who said something about it and had something to say? So there seems to me already to be one bad way to even implement this what we're talking about here. Also this whole law and the explanation, and so from the HDZ Club that comes, but it is so public that the government and the presentations want here to finally be the subject of the system, the availability, has the right to be informed, everything needs to be around the patient. And there's no doubt that even a good part of the provision doesn't make it possible. But the content of what we offer this patient, the availability of what, that basket is getting smaller. It is becoming less available and allows for the possibility of treatment. Rights are increasingly being denied because the hospital, or entire health care, does not have the resources. And here you are, Mr. Minister, you have several times called doctors who have recognized a man in a patient and without this law, recognized a patient. And he didn't care and they rightly didn't care how much it cost. Because you said yourself when you promote your famous law 0.0, then you say if we save a single life we did well, so the price doesn't matter at all. And here are the questionable people, those doctors, those experts that you are, and now you're talking about some debt, the collapse and so on. It's about the means that are used to protect the lives and health of our people, most of all about it. Now they are offered this Law and are offered the opportunity to become the center of the system. And what kind of system this has put together for us a good part of the IMF that says that we need to seriously consider the possibility and you agree to it, you open the possibility, we will now see it in the 2005 budget, it will all be clear that the increase in participation stands there, that some services are abolished, that is precisely in that agreement with the International Monetary Fund, and in particular the emphasis is on the increase not on liberation but on the increase of the participation itself. And is that then the availability of services? Which says that he has the right to do a favor when he can't accomplish it at all because you're not offering it to him anymore, or the system won't offer it to him anymore. That's the problem, I mean, and far from really being a bill like this, it's not necessary. And let me take a look at a few more specific provisions. First of all, what is not in the law, and this law should contain. There's no talking about taking care of the ultimate one for the dying one. There's not a single word about it. This is what modern legislation contains. There's also no word on effective euthanasia. It is said that it is forbidden, but if a man himself decides whether he will be treated or not, he has the right to say something about it. However, this legislative proposal does not contain at all. And what I think is the basic right that this law should contain, and ultimately what one public, not only the patient, but the general public thinks the source of doubt, the highest suspicions are just coming out and doubts about the corruption of the system stems from the lack or inability of the patient to make an insight into the waiting list, and we have heard from colleague Zeljka Antunovic who said that this list is getting bigger and bigger, so soon, if it is passed over from the year, it is not a waiting list anymore, but a list of surrealists who will probably never come to see the doctor at all, and they will have this beautiful Law on the protection of patients' rights. So these are serious and essential problems. One doesn't work without the other. And the thinner we are in there, the bigger the rights we give, or the more this bill appears to us, that we never had before. What I think is, and has already been distracted by the Commission itself, and what the SDP Club is proposing to be a better institution of attorneys, and in any case one form and the composition of the commission as it has been promoted in the bill seems essentially to be subsequent, in fact, subsequent red tape of the system. Why am I saying this? There are even differences between the first solution and the one now final in order for that commission to be appointed by the assembly of the regional or regional self-government units, on whose territory it is owned and owned by that health institution. So there is no dilemma and that again in the service or very close politics... Health care, and it's the patient whose rights have been violated, and you can think of the extent to which everyone dares to go to the commission. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Then in general, the question arises, then, the seriousness or possibility of implementing this law, because it is the commission designed as that control mechanism that will also exercise or control the implementation of this law. In any case, it would be better if you did not see a way out of this proposal or a solution proposed by the SDP Club, but in any case we rely more on the association itself. There are several associations, a group of patients who should not be just some constructive correction in this system, but just a constructive creator when it comes to this particular topic. And what seems very important to me is in this provision of Article 17 that speaks of protecting a patient who is unable to give consent to every house, here we have now had a recent case where parents for some religious reasons deny a child the right to health care. In this regard, the SDP Club responded by amendment that, in any case, it would have to give a final word to the social care centre i.e. the state and give priority to the primary interest of health and the protection of the life and health of minors, as well as to all those who are unable to take care of their rights. In the provision of Article 16(4), you have something that I think is quite like this, I don't know from what, but it doesn't make any sense anymore. So blind people, deaf people who can't read, dumb people who can't write and reverse combinations to make a statement in front of a public notebook. The public notary is not a court interpreter for the blind or the deaf or the dumb, but you should therefore invite a person who can agree with such a person and be in front of a public notary, but in that case, because it is the summation of the act that is not small, and, as a rule, such persons are on the sidelines of society and are generally poor and should be provided with such assistance precisely by the State, or that these costs go to the burden, on the burden of that health institution. Here, it's red already. That's why I'd like to conclude that this website you've opened is open. It seems to me that this is also a project where it's only a virtual door, and it seems to me again if we remember Dinko Simunović that he might be able to cross under the rainbow before the deer, rather than the patient under this law alone will be able to exercise his rights.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24576	Thank you very much. ... Correction of an incorrect indication of one replica. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] First is the correction, Madam Representative Carmela Caparin.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24577	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I am sorry that the distinguished representative with so much irony speaks of this law and patients' rights in terms of intelligence, availability and so on, but I would correct its incorrect claim because she said hospitals do not have the means to provide health care. As we have heard from Bačić, this government has given more resources and increased restrictions to every hospital, but I have not experienced that in the framework and the hospital as a doctor I cannot give health care to a patient. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24578	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations by Ms. Representative Ruža Lelic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24579	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here is colleague Antičević-Marinović said that the basket is getting smaller, and when the system can no longer offer these services I can responsibly say that this claim is not correct, that none of the services in the basket turned out and that the services are more and more and more and that many of the medicines that were not on the list of medicines were now, but here I am sorry our representative does not care at all as usual when it is being discussed.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24580	Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect alleged Mr. Representative Vladimir Plesko.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24581	I thank Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, Minister. Mrs. Anticevic said exactly like this: "The waiting list, and the list of surrealists, that these patients will never see the doctor." It's completely incorrect, ma'am, and it's insulting practically patients. I can only say that the lists are increasing because of a small number of donors, which we know is one of the problems in the Republic of Croatia, but also because of the debt transferred from 2003, and I remind you that in 2003, responsibility for the work of the Ministry is borne by the former Government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24582	Replica, Mr. Representative Stephen Bačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24583	Dear Mr. Vice President... I would refer to a few of the settings Mrs Anticevic said. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Again, in fact, there was more talk about the system in the debate and less about the very text of the Patients' Rights Act and what was fundamentally visible from this last sentence was that this was actually bureaucratizing the system. And I'd like to remind you that this law was actually built on a bill that started there in 2002 and that concept was quite different from this. And that's exactly how it was actually meant to address that protection of patients' rights because it was then planned to protect patients' rights. So one completely separate system, I'd say a new bureaucracy that predicted 25 million kuna for its work. This proposal that was in the first reading and it is I think even that it did not need much to do for this second reading was foreseen in the first variant volunteer work. So that's what people who know the system do and who will somehow be on a voluntary basis to help patients exercise all their rights. Because I would remind you that the rights of patients without this law are protected. They are protected by the Law on Health Protection, Health Insurance and all of these laws that have already been mentioned. If someone came to the side like this to listen to our discussions about this law on the protection of patients' rights, they'd get the impression that actually patients are at risk of being treated by maltenes like when they come to the hospital that they've come to a concentration camp. Our patients are jio well-treated maximum receive protection within our capabilities of technological and professional. And human. And statistics on the number of complaints are just saying the opposite. And that's what the minister also said that the percentage of complaints is actually very small fortunately small and I hope so. This is therefore not about red tape, but only about one institutional approach for a patient who already has protected rights under all other laws to build it up in some way. And nothing else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24584	Thank you very much. Reply to the replica of Ms. Ingrid Antičević Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24585	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, I think my colleague is a contradiction. First he said and objected to me that I spoke more about the system and less about this law. And then he said if someone on the side came and had it, it would seem as if our patients were so threatened as if they were in the camp. It's not true that I said it, nor gave any reference to it. But it's safe if we don't build a system, but everything shows then that you're poor, that the IMF is conducting it to you. If you didn't have money for pensioners and health care and everything else you promised and what you might really want. Predominantly, this law will remain a mere and almost naked letter on paper. So one patient sometimes doesn't care to explain to him what it is even though it's good strong, but more important to him. And now you're going to explain it to him but you won't have the money to do it to him. And in the end, the truth is that, you'll agree well that some patients also have a suite in the hospital and some can't even get a bed.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24586	Thank you very much. It's a further discussion. Madam Representative Lucia Chikesh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24587	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Government, colleagues and colleagues. Here's the difference I'll be in my exposure a little bit more optimistic. I support the bill on the protection of patients' rights which is in line with EU legislation and is a major step in our legislation and a major step in the protection of patients. It is good to write but every mg is responsible to say that every responsible doctor today without...this law does its job in accordance with this law because it is bound by the Hippocratic oath through the Ethics Code of the Croatian Medical Assembly, up to the Law on Human Rights, the Law on Pharmacy and the Law on Pharmacy. This patient law puts itself at the heart of the health system and once again confirms that we are here because of a patient and not a patient because of us. We are a service activity and this principle should apply to all service activities especially here when often it resists that everyone else has to carry out their duty under the law and that medics need it with love and sacrifice. Health care includes a wide range of services. Health protection and its improvement, disease prevention, diagnosis of disease, treatment of the same care and rehabilitation of patients. And according to this patient, he meets during his life in different roles. From a healthy person to a sick person, to a completely addictive person. However, Croatia's Republic guarantees health care to all its citizens and, earlier in its presentation, Minister Hebrang said almost 95% of the costs are borne. The law adequately covers individual rights in health care, protecting the dignity of a human being, protecting the physical and mental integrity of a human being, protecting its privacy, moral and linguistic, cultural, religious beliefs. In this space inevitably and into the medical ethics of bioethics. The medicine that wants and needs to be tailored to the patient’s individual and social dimension is directed to the service of human life and its fullness both at the physical and spiritual level. As a pediatrician, I would refer to the protection of patients' rights and children's status as patients, and I would refer to those amendments and those suggestions that were sent to my address by the civil human rights committee and the parents in Rod's action. Both have objections to Article 8 of this Act, which speaks of the right to notification. We can see for ourselves that this Article 8 speaks in several of its items about the right to notification, and it puts the right to co-determination with one sentence in this law, this Article 8 establishes a partnership relationship between a doctor and a patient. And so, for example. In its comments to this article, the child shall be entitled to information on everything concerning his health and health care measures in accordance with the age of cognitive and emotional development, the degree of education and his expressed desire for quantity and volume of information. In a way that is understandable and acceptable to him and does not drive him into doubt or encourage irrational attitudes. Of course I agree that this is in accordance with the Convention on the Rights of the Child and the Fatherly Declaration on the Rights of Protection. But I'd say when we put the child in more than one, this amendment applies and connects to ethics medically. Because a child is not equal even if a court dispute arises about the status of a child in a court dispute. So he has his own lawyer again has parents and Article 8 of our law commits the right of parents to be informed and the child is a matter of our ethics. Each doctor is in the interest of being informed to have an associate child, as this will make him a better diagnostician and will be a better doctor. In addition, this is where it is placed, for example. and an amendment is given that the right of patients or children to be admitted to a hospital only if adequate care is required cannot be provided at home or in an ambulatory capacity. But I'm sorry this shouldn't be regulated by law, because we know exactly how narrow they are in the 21st century and what medical indications are for hospitalization. However, there are exceptions, and in the 21st century is a medical indication for hospitalisation if it is an acute respiratory infection and if this child lives in unconditional conditions, especially if he is still under the auspices or with under-educated parents. And it's a banal infection and now it's still a condition for hospitalization. It is also argued that children are entitled to the presence or replacement of their parents and visits that are not limited in view of the age of the patient when they are in a health institution. This is regulated within the health institution itself, by the Regulation and by the behaviour of the institution, and the child in the health institution says he is entitled to a permanent stay of one parent. And it's required to be put into law. I don't think you should put it here. This is the subject of something else. This should be put in place and incorporated into the Law on the Construction of Institutions, Health, especially those stationary types, when the conditions for both parents and children will be created. You know for yourself how much money they invested I think to UNICEF along with our birthplaces in the rooming program and which certainly didn't work out entirely, because hospitals aren't built in this way. So, you need to change the law on building a stationary type facility to make this happen. According to these amendments, as I've listed here, there are several pages. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24588	Thank you. The word has a distinguished representative, Stjepan Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24589	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Deputy Prime Minister. Here, we have a second reading of the Law on the Protection of Patients' Rights. The debate so far has shown that most of this Law is accepted in the second reading, with many remarks and criticisms from some clubs and individuals. However, I would say that the proposer, therefore the Government respected most of the remarks that were made after the first reading and clubs and committees and that in some way this Law was in a qualitative sense corrected, but I would have had one personal objection to the respect of the remarks that this Law included criminal provisions which, if you remember, were not included in the first reading. These criminal provisions are very high in my opinion and they are actually for service providers scary. I'm afraid, and especially there's a danger in the making of implementing rules how to actually regulate it well, because it needs to be degreeed. This is where the fines are scheduled from up to. Therefore, it is a copy of one criminal law, as well as a law on which I know about road traffic. If you go 100 kilometers, then the penalty is bigger, if you go over 60, or 70, then it's smaller. I don't actually see logic if someone deny a patient the right to information or any of his rights under this Law injures, it can't be softer and harder to hurt. So I don't see any reason for it to be degreeed. If it's a violation, he should be punished one time or another. I'm afraid that's where the problems are going to arise, and I'm afraid that's exactly what those criminal provisions could achieve. The law aims to protect the patient’s rights, thus allowing him to have maximum health care, which is best given to him. These criminal provisions can be with those other parties, which are service providers and doctors and nurses and all other medical staff, they can cause fear and actually block them in some procedures that they do routinely, so they'll actually deny the right to the patient, not because of financial constraints, but because of this fear that they'll answer to pay the fine, so it's better to do something that you'll be sued for. I'm afraid inclusion of these criminal provisions is not the best solution. I think it should be considered when implementing regulations are being made to try to make it so relaxed, because now that it's already included in the law, then obviously they have to apply the articles of a criminal oath, not more of this law that we had in our first reading. So, the intensity of this Law is that the patient from the state of the facility is translated into the state of the subject, but it was already said in one debate that it would not go back to another extreme, so that the patient would again not become an entity just now, or object, only now no more medical group and medical staff, but some other group, legal lobby, etc. who here sees good terrain for his business. I hope that doesn't happen. What is important to stress is that this Law has included all principles, rights, and I would say that it has regulated them well and that there are several major shifts that should not be expected, regardless of the many amendments that when looked at, then it is seen that they are actually not related to this Law itself, but to all other laws that already exist in health and that regulate this problem. So I think that this law can go into procedure, that this text in the second reading is good, that there's no need for prolonging, to go into third reading, because I say this is the first law, one in a series that complements, so it's one bare law that complements only what in the existing laws is not sufficiently precise, so the Health Protection and Health Insurance Act, and it wouldn't be good to ask perfectionism now. Because if we go that way, then the law will never be passed. It's better for any law, there's time, there's no law, there's no time for all time, there's time for correction when in practice it's shown that certain settings are not good for him. I think it should also be understood that it is an attempt to make this legal regulation in the health system in this way in the segment of the protection of the rights of the patient, complements, explains, and that in this way we all understand and that it is in fact a message to our patients not to be afraid of health care, or health care systems, that all laws are also designed to ensure that it is protected by maximum rights. I would remind you, however, of a fact already mentioned today. The greatest protection of patients' rights is the Hippocratic oath. And let's not forget that, no matter what we call this bill one, one new principle, the principle of partnership, so one co-decision. I don't think we should forget the trust, which is the principle that always existed and will continue to exist between the patient and the doctor. This principle is not only about this segment of health, the patient and the doctor. I think that trust as a principle is important in every system of social relations, because if it were, then a lot less problems in our society would be, and the courts that are now overloaded by various subjects would have a lot less to do. I once again welcome this law. I think he's good, that he'll help our patients get an even higher dose of safety in the health system, and warn those who forget to carry out their obligations properly both professional and human. So, those who forget the Hippocratic oath. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24590	Thank you. The word has a distinguished representative, Ruža Lelic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24591	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. I, like Mr Bacic, support the adoption of the Law on Patients' Rights, because so far there is no law in Croatian legislation that would so fully, which would therefore fully regulate the issue of patients' rights, although many issues are regulated in terms of the protection of patients' rights, governed by two key laws, which are the Law on Health Protection and Health Insurance, there is still the Law on Medicine, Pharmacy and other laws. In addition to these laws, there are also a number of legal and sublegal laws that directly do not apply to patients' rights but which regulate the issue of environmental, trade, industry and so on, refer to the issue of our health, and therefore to our legal position as patients. Of particular importance are also the normative acts of the Medical Chamber, as one professional organisation that participates in the implementation of healthcare, for example the ethical code of the Medical Chamber norms relations between doctors and patients, especially the duties and legal responsibility of doctors. One of the goals of this law is to strengthen the patient and establish a partner relationship, which is repeatedly highlighted here. It means empowering patients and establishing a partner relationship between a doctor and a patient, strengthening patient co-decision in the treatment, therapy and diagnosis and taking responsibility in these procedures and responsibilities for your health and outcome of treatment. I would say that the key points in this empowerment of patients and good communication between doctors and patients and the need for very clear explanations to be given by the doctor to the patient or his family and also to be not only a doctor but also to be a counselor, to be a friend and a partner, which is not easy, because we all do not have developed communication skills equally. And why is this communication important? This is where we saw him say it's important to do something, not to explain it. I wouldn't agree with that at all. As a doctor, I think communication is really important in all of this because the conversation is one of the most important diagnostic and therapeutic tools in medicine. And it has been pointed out several times also if you read various magazines and anything else that the way you treat a patient is one of the most important in his assessment of the entire health system, means this way of handling. Therefore, it is not only important to provide a service but also to be well - treated. Then, therefore, the Ministry of Health, here, would like to point out that the project "Our kindness is the beginning of every treatment" was launched, and I think it is really necessary, and that this is to be commended, that all healthcare professionals should be included not only in the hospital but also in the primary health care care staff is, in fact, able to tell the first contact staff and all of the possible failures that occur somewhere and should be relaxed there, and that is why we need such education to be very interested in it. Then, the second thing that matters in this patient empowerment is certainly time. In Croatia but also in the countries of the European Union, the number of patients is so large, really big that the doctor does not wish to devote all the necessary time to the patient that would be necessary to answer all his demands and questions. In order for this to be different, we should certainly have more doctors but not only in Europe, but in general, there is less and less interest in calling a doctor, because after a painful study and a difficult study of six years, you get a job that is paid here, 4 and a half to 5 thousand kuna in general medicine, and it is really not stimulating unless you have some others, which is why you go to such a study. By making the law, I would say that one move from a centered decision and a collective solution towards an individual should be made. Therefore, the emphasis is on the protection of individual patients and involving patients in various levels of the decision-making process. The adoption of the proposed law would introduce the principles of promoting the rights of patients whose application would improve the quality of health care and allow for easier and full implementation of these rights. That law would promote both human rights and health values. I would also mention that the bill contains guidelines and European declarations on the rights of patients from 94 years of age who handle patients' rights through several chapters covered by this law, which are human rights and values in health care, information and information consent, confidentiality and privacy, and treatment. I would, too, have noticed that in the final bill that significant changes have been made, many remarks have been accepted. Some articles have been modified, completed and better formulated, and some have been added. For example, in Article 10 of the final proposal, the patient is always entitled to seek a second opinion, which was said earlier if the patient is not fully informed he has the right to seek a second opinion. And of course, this should create such a public change and in general that seeking another opinion is not really a statement of mistrust with a doctor but rather a fundamental right of a patient. I don't just know how that health insurance is gonna make it work. Then the right to confidentiality in Article 25 speaks more clearly of who has the right to be referred to the patient’s health condition and I consider this current formulation to be clearer and better. Then there is access, the right to access medical documentation and new articles have been added. She would just say, here she refers to this article 16 where she says it is necessary as a public notary and so on, but she did not continue to read further or to say in front of two witnesses a statement in matters of blind, deaf or illiterate persons, so I think that article as such can be accepted. Here we have added a new article right to maintain personal contact, Article 26. Of course, it will be necessary to resolve the implementing rules on how to implement this if there is a ban on someone, means to prohibit visits to a particular person or persons and who will check it, who is this person who is banned, and we see that there are criminal provisions for it, so I think that this article should be considered significantly. Then the same right to leave the hospital on a voluntary basis is added here in Article 27, where it is more clear, however, under what conditions and procedures it is when a person declares that he is going to leave the hospital on his own. Until now, it was mostly a procedure if someone left a voluntary hospital to actually bear all the consequences later on for their health, so it's a good thing that the procedure is also formulated here. There is, of course, the right to compensation for what is now, which in the future will certainly be more pronounced because of patient information and the stronger lobby of the lawyer. The commission has also changed that you should receive compensation for your work, that's fine, that's all that's transferred to local self-government units and we'll see how much money they'll have for that. And like this, it seems significant to me, however, that the commission must inform the complainant of the activities undertaken without delay and no later than 15 days. Penal provisions have also been introduced, and here's my colleague Bacic said that these criminal provisions are also very high. I would just like to say that here, indeed, I don't know about implementing acts and what, that something more concrete can be regulated because of this, it turns out that it certainly has an interest to ask for some compensation and something to say that of these rights that it has here and which are criminally, it has criminal provisions that it has been denied, in particular it says that it hurts the ban on a visit to a particular person or persons and so on, or so on. So in criminal terms, I see there may be a lot of difficulty. In any case, not to intercede, that there should be no responsibility, but there may be a false interpretation in that. In the end, it would point out that patients' rights should be distinguished from insurance rights. It's always been debated here, and I think it was more about health insurance rights than patients' rights. Namely, while the rights of the patient are one universal right and as such a part of the general rights. Our health insurance rights still stem from the patient's contractual relationship with the insurance company. The truth so far is we do not have such a contractual relationship that we all get contracts, but it will probably be in the future, and it is the task of the entire society of health care professionals, media, the Association for the Promotion of Patients' Rights to learn and bring the rights of their users closer to them and make their use easier. I would say that the Law on the Protection of Patients' Rights is that this area will do one whole, and as it is in line with the legal gains of the European Union and the legal acts of the Council of Europe as a doctor, I support its adoption and I do not think that we should now delay and write hundreds of amendments, I think that the law is good and that progress can be made in protecting patients' rights. In some of these discussions, really like patients if they listened to us, they could very much be afraid to be in, that they were executed in the maze of bureaucracy and so on. I don't think it really stands, but this law will still help achieve the right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24592	Thank you. The word has a distinguished representative, Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24593	Dear Vice President of the House, the esteemed Minister. This law would be both necessary and useful only if it was prepared a little better. He's missing, he's not bragged enough, and besides, he doesn't get the point. Look, it's a law called the Law on the Protection of Patients' Rights. Let's see where these patient rights are most compromised, which is what needs to be protected by law when the law is already passed. Well, look, we have these famous waiting lists. Patients can't get in line for over a year for a specialist review and processing. Well, that's where their rights are at risk. Here. And look what it says in Article 12. "The patient has the right to be familiar with the names and specialization of persons who directly provide health care." Well, God's people write that on every door name and last name of the doctor and his specialization. Well, that's not the problem. So have you ever experienced, read, from someone you heard there is a doctor in Croatia who refused to tell the patient his name and name and his specialization. So where did this happen? So is that the problem this law needs to be solved? And the waiting lists, no letters. Not a letter. This is not a problem for this law both for the legislator and for the legislator. There's not a word there's not a single one, what with the patients at the terminal stage. We have people, it happens, it's a practice, unfortunately. You have people who are terminally ill with cancer, they won't be hospitalized because they can't help him, there's no place to take him. But that term, we have nowhere to systematically resolve how to help these people. Look at them, they can't be helped, they can't be saved, so it's clear, but they can be allowed to die with dignity. Well, they've been paying for it for the whole working life. So why is there not a single letter in this law? It's about the doctor having to say his name and last name. That's a lot of Well, look. Article 4 discusses the protection of personality, and this is quite O.K. It includes the protection of respect for privacy, worldview and moral and religious beliefs, and that is perfectly fine, all of this should be protected and the law should protect it. But look what's happening to us in Croatia. A month ago, it was in Split. Because of religious fanaticism, it means due to the obligation to respect other people's religious beliefs, the mother of a young patient who needed to continue treatment or to take bone marrow transplant therapy because the boy suffered from leukemia, is taking him out of the hospital and prohibiting the medical treatment of that child. We have, have people with such religious beliefs as Jehovah’s Witnesses who receive transfusions, but it’s good when he refuses to receive a transfusion for himself, that’s his right, I agree. He can decide he'll die because he won't receive a transfusion. But when he makes such a decision on behalf of a young child, then it is something that we must face as a problem that is not legally solved enough, and that is why we have also proposed an amendment by Mr. Minister to Article 17 that would make the doctor an obligation to immediately, but immediately inform the welfare centre. What happened in this boy's case? That's where the doctor informed not the welfare center but the journalists because of his medical conviction, because of the need to help the boy he informed the journalists, the journalists made a noise, then the welfare center got involved, when they threatened their parents to take away their child and then they agreed to treat the child. Had it not been for such behaviour by a physician who reacted spontaneously, we would not have had a legal obligation to protect that young child from someone else’s religious fanaticism. That's what this law has to do. And then there's a treat in this law, one in Article 20 that talks about scientific research on patients and conditions where these scientific research can be done, and that lists the conditions, which are all conditions, and that all of them have to be met in order to start with scientific research on a patient, and the condition two says literally like this: the risks to which the patient is exposed are not disproportionate to the possible benefits of research. First, when we translate it into Croatian, so this is not disproportionate, we express it in an affirmative sentence, so they're proportionate, we get the expression that the risks must be proportionate to the possible benefits and now be careful if the risks are not large enough with benefits, so if the risks are too low, then no scientific research will be carried out. Well, I guess vice minister, so I guess the benefits must be greater than the risk of scientific research. Well, that's the other way around! Well, I don't know how anyone could write something like this illogically and be careful I warned about it at first reading the law, but as someone said before, so the ministry didn't only take care of what the clubs were saying, this other one didn't read at all, I guess. Well, we couldn't leave it in the law. Well, that really doesn't serve the honor. Then individual remarks. In Article 9, who gives the patient notice, right? It is a great health care professional who directly provides the patient with a certain form of health care. But look, there are also some workers who provide certain health services without being health workers. They're psychologists, defecologists, logos, they should be included in this, and they have this obligation to inform the patient, I don't know why they turned out. Article 16 of the patient has the right to accept or refuse a diagnostic, or treatment procedure except in the event of an unsustainable medical intervention whose failure would endanger the life and health of the patient and cause permanent damage. But there's no record of who's calling the shots. Who decides that this will cause damage and permanent damage, that urgent medical intervention is needed? That law doesn't make any sense. Look, the practice is now that in case a patient refuses an unsustainable medical examination, the evaluation of his condition is conducted by a competent psychiatrist. Well, that's what we need to introduce here. Look, a man doesn't have to be in psychic condition so he can make a reasonable decision, but then he's going to have to get a shrink to take care of it. It could lead to a report saying it's a patient who can't reason and we can't go to the patient's harm and it's better to protect his right without defining it. So let's protect the patient in the right way, so where he's not able to reason, let's make sure he's on duty, and then let someone decide that he'll still be given therapy. It's only a brief matter of these committees. Look, these commissions now have: the Committee of Local Self-Government Units, then the State Commission, and then the competent inspections that respond to complaints from local self-government units, or to applications, and then other NGOs, without knowing who the boss is. And what NGOs are doing here that are basically doing the same thing that these commissions are going to do to local self-government units. And in Article 32, you say that the commission has five members, so this is a local unit of local self-government, appoints it a congregation and watch out, from the ranks of patients of NGOs and experts in the field of the protection of patients' rights. So who are these experts in the field of patient rights when we haven't had the law yet? We only have the law now, only now can someone become an expert, right? And besides, you don't have in all units of local self-government NGOs dealing with this issue. There are small municipalities, small municipalities. They don't have that. How are you going to put the commission together? Because power will not be drawn up under this law. So there's intensity, it's good. It is okay for these commissions to be established, but not by making an expression in the law that will make them impossible to establish in all units of local self-government. Then that commission, please inform the public of the infringements of the right of patients. But be careful, it's only the first degree. He's got a patient's report, then he's got to notify the inspection, so the inspection determines if the right has been violated. But the law gives... But I'm running out of time, so that's what I'm saying. [[The speaker is not on, you can't hear it.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24594	I would like to thank the esteemed representative, Stazic. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of Carmela Caparin.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24595	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. There are a number of incorrect allegations, among them one that the Law is not prepared. I think the law is really prepared, which is obvious to go from first to second reading. Yes, in the second reading and the present final proposal, many remarks have been made and included in this Law. The other thing is, it's not true that a patient has to wait for an examination for a year. Mr. Stazić, please give me a patient who's been waiting for a doctor's examination for a year, and when you read the articles of the Law, I think the law is very connected and that one sentence in one article cannot be taken out of the whole of the law that is not related to another article. As you read, the risks to which the patient is exposed are not disproportionate to the possible benefits of research, and you forgot to read that the results of the research can contribute to the real and direct benefit of the patient’s health. So, nothing to the patient's harm. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24596	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the distinguished representative of Ruža Lelic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24597	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, I'd look back on a number of incorrect allegations, although my colleague Caparin said that, but I'd still like to confirm it myself. He says he's been looking into it for a year. He's been waiting for a specialist examination. I'm really the director of a facility that covers 50,000 inhabitants and I don't know if anyone's been waiting a year for a checkup. I think our waiting lists are appropriate in relation to European countries, not to mention the amount that we allocate for health care or that hospitals won't receive a dying patient because they can't help him, so there's no one to take care of him. I'd just like to say, Mr. Stazic, that's why he foresees a palitative concern that would take care of and care of these terminal stages of patients in homes where they would still be much more comfortable.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24598	Thank you. Correction of incorrect allegations, distinguished representative Ivan Bagarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24599	I thank Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Government, ladies and gentlemen. A fellow Stazic said several inaccuracies, but with conviction as if so in the law. One of them is, when you asked this question, where it happened that the doctor hadn't introduced himself, I don't know, that he didn't. So, many times, both a nurse and a doctor go into the hospital room and don't introduce themselves, and that's the thing about this law, and it's good to touch and it's important. Then, you were talking about the dignified death of terminal patients. The terminal patient is also a patient. And if we're going to talk about dignity, the death of such patients, the most worthy death would be within the circle of the family. However, this Law prescribes the rights of patients, and it does not regulate family relationships or good family conduct. The same thing is about protecting children from parents, abusive parents with religious convictions. Same thing. The least we need is for this Law to involve ourselves in religious beliefs and to touch people's general rights, and in fact, that's why we're breaking them. Because if we had done that, then, of course, some people would have gotten up on their feet and said you have no right to interfere with general rights, human rights.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24600	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the distinguished representative Ivana Sučec-Tracostanec.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24601	So in a general attempt to totally downplay the law, it portrays itself as terrible, he got involved in his own network by trying to prove it to individual allegations, so he incorrectly stated that social workers and orthopedists are not health workers. Maybe the social worker isn't a doctor, but he's certainly a health care professional if he works in a health care system and falls both under the salary and coefficients of health care workers, without talking about an orthopaedic that's a kind of doctor, which I know as a layman. So he incorrectly stated that they were not health workers.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24602	Okay. I think the distinguished representative Stazic was talking about the logo, and... All right, all right. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Correction of the incorrect allegations, distinguished representative Marko Turic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24603	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. Although the esteemed representative Bagaric referred to Mr. Stazic's incorrect allegations in fact as we experienced it in that, "child little, mother treats him for these reasons, is not protected, we accept the law". We don't mention anything about that. Of course, here I repeat again, some things are regulated by another law, which is the Family Act. Here, therefore, we will certainly find it in another law and we should not regret it, and that is actually it. Thank you very much. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24604	Thank you. ... Thank you. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Wait a minute, hello? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Hello? Replica, the esteemed representative of Stjepan Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24605	Mr. Vice President, I'd like to say a few words about my fellow Stazic. In fact, in this debate, my colleague Stazic was more concerned with other laws and less with this Law on Patients' Rights. I would remind you that the Law on Patients' Rights is primarily regulated by the patient-medical relationship. So, that sphere of communication and it's maximum protection. Other laws regulate the quality of service, security, etc., therefore, and when it comes to hospice, there is no, that no terminal patient is mentioned in this Law, so now a colleague of Bagarić has said and is a patient. But in our current Health and Insurance Act, we don't have a term of hospice. It's something in this health reform now that you're thinking about maybe being introduced. By my personal assessment, I don't think that's good. It's the attitude of a Western civilization that's not right for us. And a terminal patient deserves attention. I think it's better to think that in the context of existing hospitals, the acute ones we have part of the hospital, the departments that will accommodate such patients, because I would say, there is hope in every patient and there is terminal hope. And we must not destroy that hope in him. When he is in an acute hospital, or in a hospital for chronic diseases, when he is in an institution that has the title "The Hospital", then he has a feeling and believes that he is being provided and cared for by the last minute, he is in that case taking care of the doctor he treated at the acute stage when he thought that his life or help could be extended. It's actually a moral question, a philosophical question. And in this health reform, I wouldn't get too far into that one category of establishment of hospice. So it's one place where patients are thought to be terminal phase and there's no help. I'd be very careful about that reform. And that's why I think the problem of a terminal patient, or the idea of a hospice that you mentioned, is not the place in this law. This will be settled by law when we have in this House, the Health Security Act, health insurance that may try to solve this problem when it comes to these benches.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24606	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24607	But the information needs to be provided.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24608	Time's up, I'm...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24609	So the doctor is the team leader, everyone else is his associates. The doctor must provide information.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24610	Thank you. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24611	An esteemed colleague is with you but I completely agree when it comes to patients in the terminal stage of the disease. There was no reason to replicate me. But I mentioned them because practice, which is one thing, which happens to them in practice, in their lives that they won't be admitted to the hospital because they don't have room. And I think we should protect them. I totally agree with you the way you advocate it. But we need somewhere to create a legal obligation for someone to do that. In what law? Well, it's in this law, my colleague. Because this law, I return to the beginning of your replica now, does not call the Law of Good Communication between Doctor and Patient. He's called the Law on the Protection of Patients' Rights. And the right of patients is also the right not to wait long on the lists, and the right to be admitted by a health care facility, even though it is in a term, the right of a patient and the right of a young child to protect him from his parents' religious fanaticism, because he is a patient, that's his right, and that's what we have to think about. And that's why these things don't need to be searched for by all other laws now, and to pretend that they exist there, because they don't exist. And in Family Law, this isn't settled. We need to create a bond here under the Family Law. We need to create a doctor's obligation to report immediately, and immediately the center responsible for social care so that the center can then act under family law. That's when he acts. But we have to create a buckle. Where do we make it? In this law, then in another law. So why do we need 15 more laws now, in this, let's write it down. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24612	Thank you. Replica, the esteemed representative of Kajo Bucan.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24613	Mr. Vice President. Well, I'd like to look back on one thing Mr. Stazic pointed out on several occasions, and these are our waiting lists that are so much talked about. Namely, by opting for the social health system as it is in this country, which is based on solidarity, and I would say tolerance, these waiting lists and, as the minister himself said, are far less than in other European Union countries, and significantly these waiting deadlines for so-called. a cold programme, smaller in Croatia than throughout the European Union. From a personal example, I give you the case in England, where those patients who need certain types of cold procedures in ophthalmology, who would like to achieve through NHS, are waiting for such operations up to eight months. So in Germany, so is Austria, and Spain and all those countries where I could personally see these waiting lists. In Croatia there are no such waiting lists in any of our cities and so long waiting for the cold program as it is in these countries and in those parts that support the social health system. There you go. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24614	Thank you. The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24615	Dear colleague. I really don't understand why to fake reality? I really don't understand. For these waiting lists, neither I accuse the government nor the current minister. Nor, be careful that's the problem. Ask your patients. Let's drop the stats. Ask your patients. The other day there was a show on TV, where people were saying they were ordered in eight or nine months. Look, that's the problem, let's not close our eyes in front of him, fake reality and say, look from now on, since we've come to power, there's no waiting list, everything's going fine. It's not like that, pal, it's not like that. People die when they get their turn. That's the problem. That's the problem, and I wish he wasn't here. I wish he wasn't here. But while he's at it, let's all make an effort to get rid of him. But then let's not pass the Patients' Rights Act without writing that the right of the patient is as soon as possible, let's not determine, let's not set that deadline unreal that it has to be in three days, when we know it's unrealistic. Here may be the minister in the field of radiology who knows how much to do, because hospitals can't get new machines. I can't get new machines, those they have aren't enough to run all those tests. Patients go to private radiology clinics, there's room, there's room right there the same day, the same day. And that's the problem, let's not fake the reality of our colleagues.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24616	Thank you. The word has a distinguished representative, Carmela Caparin.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24617	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister, Vice President of the Croatian Government. I, given that a lot has already been said, will seek to shorten today's presentation and I am glad that we finally passed this Law, recalling the last term in which the Health Care Act was adopted that we talked about medical care, pharmaceuticals, sisterhood, dental activity, medical biochemistry, health insurance that determines certain patient rights. However, we also expected that the Law on Patients' Rights would come very quickly, but we did not see it on our benches, although we have received from some associations a draft, a premonition of that law which we know the European Union also gave 300 thousand kunas to make, and now we see amendments on the benches almost copied from the draft of the Law and from these declarations. Therefore, this Law introduces the right principles of promoting patients' rights by applying which would really improve the quality of health care that includes health care, its promotion, disease prevention, diagnosis and treatment, and then the care and rehabilitation of patients. Again, it has been redefined the classical relationship of a doctor patient who really becomes a aware and responsible subject here, not the object of the event in the treatment process. Interrelationships are based on trust, and this is the basis for us doctors and patients and this Law only institutionally implements this trust by citing and better communication of the doctor-patient, i.e. by bringing and better communication and developing the partner relationship of the doctor-patient. I believe that this law is already in practice, and I only consider this law to make the patient far more responsible for his health. He should be fully informed of what he can do for his health and health improvement, and therefore he is fully responsible in that section. It can refuse diagnostic procedures and also therapeutic treatment. So far, in the medical profession, the patient has been completely committed to the doctor's trust and knowledge, yet this relationship is different. In law enforcement, the doctor will have to respect cultural, educational and social diversity, he will have to have more time for his patient, to talk, to give clear explanations, to clearly present information to the patient, and to his family. In the Republic of Croatia, the number of patients is so large that the doctor let me say that he cannot devote all the time it takes to answer all the questions of the patient. And to that end, we know that the best way to emancipate is through direct communication. However, for the quality of implementation of this law, I think that there is a need to further educate doctors and medical staff, to further educate the highest mass to which we have always been reminded by the late Dr. Andrija Stampar, who spoke very much about prevention and education of broad folk masses. The system will take part in what the application of the law itself is brought by natural lawyers, in particular with regard to the changes made in the final proposal for legislation relating to criminal provisions. Insurance will also appear because in insurance policies, any damage to the body has its own price. Pharmaceutical companies that are still present and are focusing on health notifications will report to promote their medicines and make profits. This news for patients should be professional and not for marketing purposes such as often. And finally, I would really briefly refer to what Mr. Stazic was saying, and as you did, Mr. Minister, and I read this article, which read, which read, "Legal trials on children and mentally lagging," in that note, that in the Croatian medical... be allowed to test children, mental patients and mentally retarded persons. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I really note that such an article is scary and read, and I can imagine that it was for listeners who heard such news on the news after the government session that it was a proposal from Minister Hebrang. Absolutely incorrect, disorientation of people and would even dare to say one public lynch and minister and government with these statements and such inscriptions because Mr. Minister spoke of laws where this is specifically done and this law also has Article 20 and 21 which Mr. Stazic did not read well and one of these sentences says that expression would approve the competent ethical commission according to the specific, pardoned research would approve the competent ethical commission according to the specific law following an independent examination of its scientific value and the importance of the research goal and assessment of its ethical acceptability. Patients on whom research is conducted must be familiar with their rights and protect their rights in accordance with the law. ... is informed patient consent and next article of Law 21 where research results can contribute to real direct benefit to patient health, research comparable... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] can't be spent on patients who are capable of consent and those who don't have a guardian. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So it's quite clear and regrettable that this unfettered news is being given. In the end, I support this law because the existing laws promote health and protect patients' rights to the principles of humanity, the availability of a right to co-decision, so if you want a patient and indeed decides, complete information and the right to a second expert opinion. It certainly represents another step in harmonising the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with the legislation of the European Union, and I think we will all support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24618	Thank you. The word has a distinguished representative Ivana Sučec-Tracostanec.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24619	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Vice-President of the Government, let me tell you, there are a lot of doctors in this assembly. This is the Law on the Protection of Patients' Rights so that few patients can hear themselves, to make a joke. I don't think that I'm going to reduce the seriousness of this final bill that I am very supportive of and which I believe we will vote during this session, of course with several amendments that I hope the Minister will accept and accept because they don't change the important text, only in some detail improve those relations that apply, in particular I will say about that amendment from our Committee on Human Rights and National Minority that I don't know the blind patient's rights with Braille's letter, that the deaf and the deaf allow it with a sign letter. So these are some details that may be left behind in this good intention of making this law to also define the details. And let me tell you maybe just a little bit. So, since some doctors are also patients and already some patients in view of their long-term course of treatment and of the knowledge they receive through the media, through various publications or the Internet are already somewhat doctors. So this relationship should be my opinion partnerly but something that maybe we didn't highlight here he should be full of respect. As in Croatia, the overall crisis of respect in all areas is then unfortunately here and here, therefore, the person of the patient should be respected as well as the person of the doctor, his knowledge, his hard work and his good intentions, because something that came from a lot of discussions and committees and here today is the assumption that, I will not say all but a good part of the doctor in advance to say negatively, and that they should be very controlled, which could result in other extremes to delay high risk operations, that doctors who are potentially aware of the dangers that follow from possible abuse and this law are much more cautious than they might otherwise be, unfortunately for the damage of patients, so here I also join the doctor Bacic who are told that lawyers should not get the most from this law. So I count this one relationship as partner, friendly, and respectful. And let me just say it. There have been so many stories that civil society through its associations has not been involved in the drafting of the bill and I will say that as we have brought about the cartoons almost lead to political life by cutting down parties to a small number of inhabitants, it is an even worse case in civil society and so on. NGOs and all possible citizens' organisations so I don't know if it's even physically and practically possible to articulate. So, in which way, when we don't have a single register of all these civil associations to find out how many there are at all, which is what everyone deals with and how many members are represented in relation to the number of people and so those who were the loudest to say so have managed to get through these amendments and the vast majority assume that the same accords with this bill as we MPs agree on and on the basis of that, so I won't be able to continue, so much is said, I represent the dignity of the profession but also, of course, the human fundamental right of the patient to decide on the knowledge of the profession that will be given to him alone with my treatment and I won't further spread the topics. But then, on the one hand, we fight for the terrible human rights of the right to confession, for the confession of our inclinations and everything else, and on the other hand, it bothers us when someone doesn't ultimately respect something called the right to treatment. I have the right to choose, and that's where I'm going to end up, so I know a case like that by my colleague who has completely in silence and peace chosen the right to treat her cancer and I suppose she may have just avoided the long way that would have gone through the classic treatment. She chose shorter and thus did not participate in the entire system. Doesn't mean her responsibility is less than anyone else. Well, thank you, and I want us all to accept this law together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24620	Thank you very much. Honorable representative of Gordana Sobol.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24621	Thank you, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary. Allow me to refer in a few sentences to this bill and to point out, through a brief discussion, some amendments that I personally gave, believing that they might also be accepted on behalf of the SDP Club. I'm one of those guys who thinks it'd be better if this law went into third reading. I think there are good suggestions, that there are a lot of grounds to do so, however, I don't quite have the illusion that this will be so, but I suppose that this bill will be adopted in this second reading. Mr. Minister, I would like to point out one right to me very important patients and patients, which I do not consider to be indicated in this Bill Proposal, and you have today said on several occasions that everything that may not be written in this Bill proposal just means that it has already been implemented through some other laws that treat the system of health care. However, I would like to point out that it would be extremely important for one of the rights of patients and patients in this Law to be entitled to education. I have tried to find in several existing laws whether it is rightly stated, I have not been able to find it, perhaps possibly under Article 21 of the Health Protection Act which, in paragraph 6, says that any person has the right to accurate information and instruction, and to teach about all issues concerning her health. However, I think that this is not enough and that this Law should be subject to a special one, one article, and I suggest that this be added beyond Article 7a, which would say that patients and patients have the right to education on health conservation and improvement measures, prevention and early detection of diseases, as well as diagnostic, treatment, rehabilitation and self-help measures. In the second paragraph, patients and patients have a special right to education on family planning and reproductive health. I would like to stress that this is also in line with the Declaration on the Promotion of Patients' Rights in Europe with the International Pact on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights. It is in line with the Health and Health Insurance Development Strategy, and I would like to point out in particular that it is specifically indicated in the programme tasks of national policy to promote gender equality. In this national policy, it says that just under this head “woman and health” that a special programme task is to promote knowledge about the advantages of family planning, the development of awareness, the responsibility of men in family planning. It is a special task to strengthen activities in education on sexually transmitted diseases including HIV, or AIDS. Furthermore, the special task is to promote and encourage and implement programmes with the support of media aimed at preventing, early detection, treatment of breast cancer, uterus and other types of criminal diseases of the reproductive system. Therefore, this right seems to me to deserve to find a place in this law. When we speak right to an education that seems to me to be one of the very important rights that actually affects both prevention and early detection of the disease. Mr. Minister, I'd like to warn you of a report on the state budget and on the basis of your Ministry of Health. The programmes and projects currently involved in prevention, early detection, various diseases, malignancies, breast cancer, are listed inside talking about preserving, improving the reproductive health of young women, reproductive health, prevention and education programmes and HIV, respectively, AIDS. But I have to warn you today about this law and it's about the rights of patients that I'm going to say 20 thousand kunas to improve youth reproductive health and so much for women with 30. The 6th was done with zero kuna. When we talk about prevention and early detection of breast cancer of 180 thousand kuna, 2.8%. From the prevention of malignancies of 320 thousand kunas, only 16 thousand kuna or 5% were committed. And when we talk about HIV or AIDS then, it says: “HIV prevention, i.e. AIDS of 1070,000 kuna, was done only 23,000 kuna or 13%. When we talk about reducing the damage to the prevention of infectious diseases of 60,000 kunas, zero kunas were committed. When we talk about education for the 789 thousand kuna HlV Monitoring Programme contractors, and when we talk about education in HlV secondary schools, it is planned for AIDS 2 million 94 thousand kuna with 30. The 6th was done with zero kuna. I'm not saying this by chance, maybe I'm a little moved by this last case that's got a lot of attention not only to our neighboring country but also to our country. A case of a 21-year-old young girl who died infected with a series of extremely severe infectious diseases and has now been alarmed by several countries' health services. So speaking of these figures that I've just said, I'm warning Mr. Minister that it would be good to include a special right to education in this proposal of the Law on the Protection of Padrens. Furthermore, secondly, I have already said that as president of the Committee on Gender Equality. I do not see any reason why the Law that exists, which this Parliament adopted last year, is talking about the Law on Same-Sex Communities to ignore, and in the proposal of this Act, I ask you to read carefully the amendments that came on behalf of the SDP Club, perhaps someone else will give these amendments to allow through Article 24 and Article 35 of the partners of the same-sex communities to participate in the decision on the fate of the person with whom they live in the same-sex community. So the law is clear, I really don't see any reason to avoid it in this case. And the last thing I want to say is also about what I said in part, and as president of the Committee on Gender Equality, I may in this sense be one part of the MPs and advocates and boring but I will keep repeating because this law is in force, in this law it clearly states that all the laws of the Republic of Croatia have to comply with the Law on Gender Equality and I appeal that this Law is harmonised in a linguistic sense that it uses male-female gender. In this regard, there was also a proposal for a conclusion adopted unanimously on the Committee, so there is no reason not to do so any more so, as far as I have information on this bill in such a form is originally and made up. I don't know why in the meantime it gave up. Furthermore, I do not just want to be advocating gender equality and equal treatment for women and men, several articles of the Gender Equality Act suggest that all bodies, commissions and commissions appointed from the state level, i.e. from the local level, should take care of both gender equality. Perhaps it is time for fellow Members and colleagues to apply the Law on Gender Equality in this regard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24622	Thank you very much. Dear representative Milanka Opačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24623	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Here's because everything's said I won't repeat, I'll only say two things when it comes to children who are also patients and have their rights. Indeed, someone here before me was talking about how parents should be with the children in the hospital. Of course our capacities are what they are. Of course from day to day I think it does seem as possible, as many as one parent can be with a child in a hospital. In some ways, it is also a recommendation from the Committee on the Rights of the Child which seems to me some 15 days ago that he held his session in Geneva and therefore there are certain recommendations for Croatia to make as much as possible in the area of children's rights as possible to be with their parents at the time of treatment especially when it comes to long-term treatment. And the other thing I'd like to talk about here is this amendment that the SDP Club gave to Article 17 of this Act. It's about one thing, one behavior that hasn't been regulated by the laws until now. So it's about adults having the right to dispose of their lives, you can throw yourself off the bridge, you can decide that you will be treated. You may decide that, in accordance with your faith or any other beliefs, you will not receive medical help, but you do not have the right to choose to take the right of the child and to remove his medical attention. Just because it happened two months ago, it seems to me two months ago in Croatia, opens up space and the need to regulate it somewhere in the law. The fact is that there is the possibility and obligation of the Social Care Centre to intervene and protect the right of the child if there are different interests, it would say, parents and children. So, in this case, the welfare centre has primarily acted on the orders of the child’s attorney, but there is a problem because we do not have a regulated provision for a doctor to say that, for certain religious reasons, he does not want his child to be treated further, that in the interests of the child and for the protection of the child’s life, he calls a care center and reports such one parent behavior. So the welfare center can't know what's going on at the hospital. He cannot know which parent took away his child’s right to medical care, and that is why a doctor’s and doctor’s right to inform his child’s care centre must be prescribed somewhere and thus start him to intervene. So here's what we haven't had in the law until the end. One part is therefore resolved in the Social Care Act, but this one link is therefore not resolved. And here I am begging you, Mr. Minister, whether in this law or in any other case this has to be solved solely for the purpose of protecting the children. Fortunately, it is not a large number, but also this small number that has happened to us so far must be regulated by law and stopped by all those who might in the future for some reason deny their children health care. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24624	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Jagoda Martic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24625	Dear President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. This is a second reading of the Bill on the Protection of Patients' Rights and it is evident that the Proposer has observed some of the remarks made in this assembly to the proposed law at the time of the first reading. This kind of corrected the text of the proposed law, but there is still a lot of inadequacy in front of us. Since this is too important a law because citizens are highly sensitive when it comes to their health myself, so they are particularly interested in their rights as patients, I will resort to those who today advocate that this law go into third reading in order for the applicant to have time to consider the observations that have been made in today's debate and thus install them in the final draft of the law. The proposed text of the law, which is before us, is quite unsightly and makes it difficult for us to get along and patients with their rights, as well as healthcare providers in relation to their obligations. The law doesn't define clearly what the patient's rights are. I believe that a specific article should clearly specify what rights these are, and, beyond that, each of these rights should be specifically developed. In order for the law to be effective in terms of the protection of the right laid down by law, it must be concrete and clear. This is the only way that it will fully revive and be applied in practice because when the law is unsightly and difficult to comply with such a law most often becomes unusable. One of the basic rights of the patient is the right to another opinion. This is regulated in Article 10, but it is not defined who carries the costs? Is that on the burden of health insurance or is the patient carrying them himself? The second basic right of the patient is to protect his human rights. It means he's not the number, he's the person, he's the doctor who treats and treats him. The patient has the right to know everything about his medical condition. It must be familiar with the full treatment procedure, procedures to be used in this treatment process, possible consequences, side effects and so on. Articles 19 to 21 shall regulate the protection of patients under whom scientific research is carried out. The conditions under which scientific research is carried out shall be laid down. But now the question is who guarantees that a doctor will actually inform the patient that he wants to engage him in some scientific research. For example, a new drug wants to be examined. We know how powerful the influence of multinational pharmaceutical companies is and how much pressure they put on smaller countries. I'm afraid in such cases no law will protect the patient. There is only a crucial medical ethics and morality, and I agree with my colleague Bačić when he said that the best protection of the right of the patient is Heraklit's oath, of course, assuming that the doctor did not forget that oath. The law lays down criminal sanctions in the event that a patient, a patient, is deprived of his or her rights to which he is prescribed by this law. This is also a change from the first reading, and it is good that the law provides for sanctions for violations of the provisions of the law and ensures judicial protection in the exercise of the intended rights of the patient. Because without a clear definition of violations and especially sanctions for committed violations, this law would be the best way to keep only a dead letter on paper, i.e. to remain only a declarative law that will be passed and that will never really be implemented and applied to life situations. Furthermore, reading the law also raises the question: what about the specific rights of patients such as the availability of health care and the timely provision of health care. We all know very well what the condition of hospitals and other health institutions is. We know that, that waiting lists for individual examinations are growing. Patients are being transferred from month to month and so on. It is not such a big problem if you wait for a regular check-up or a routine check-up as part of a regular check-up, although that is, even though it is a problem for the patient too, causing anxiety and dissatisfaction with the health care service provided. The real problem arises when the patient has to perform an emergency examination to determine the extent of the disease has improved. For example. A parent who suffers from brain tumors and needs to perform an MRI as soon as possible. At the hospital, they tell him there's no opening date for the next five to six months. Force doesn't go to the privates for a checkup, of course it costs. The patient is forced to pay for his checkup even though he is health insurance. I think that in such cases the patient should be entitled to compensation for the costs of the checks carried out, if, of course, the competent person determines the need to perform a certain search and examination as soon as possible to prevent the progression of the diagnosed disease. And that's where you'd repeat that proposal I made at the first law reading. TO MAYBE IT WOULD not be bad for the ministry to actually do one control per hospital and see what the capacity utilisation is, the actual capacity of the App. So whether the use is complete or sometimes deliberately creating an illusion of crowds to force the patient to go for private examinations. The law provides for the establishment of a committee to protect patients' rights, in units of regional self-government. And the health department. The legislator gave up the work of members of the committee on a voluntary basis and that is good because serious work cannot be based on a voluntary basis, at least not a work planned for a long time. However, it remains to be noted that the body for the protection of the patient's rights should be independent of all the authorities of the state administration. These should be bodies that would be functionally and truly independent of any influence of government. What is the work of the commissions and what are its powers, monitoring individual rights violations, suggests taking measures, informs the ministry's commission. He submits reports to the public, and so on and so on. So the commission is authorized to warn, propose and make recommendations. I think the whole procedure is just how it's imagined by the proposed legislation is too complex and takes a long time. So if someone decides to seek the protection of their rights asist must have a lot of patience and good nerves to begin with. We of the SDP Club also proposed on the first question that a broad and detailed public debate should be conducted between the first and second readings of this law involving all interested entities, and distinguished patients. If the Proposer had accepted this proposal, I am sure that some of the solutions proposed by this law would be more quality and easier to apply in practice and real life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24626	Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the respected representative Marko Turic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24627	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, my wish is to correct the incorrect allegations about the waiting list. So an example of patients with brain tumors is listed. Since my entire working life is tied to such patients, it's simply incorrect. Any patient suspected of having a dangerous illness, the patient comes primarily at the same time day or day or night. So talk about it so happiness television doesn't pass on, to get such an impression with such a tragic diagnosis, the patient waits for six months. That's just impossible. That's what I want to fix.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24628	Thank you very much. And another correction by the respected representative Vladimir Šišnaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24629	Thank you very much. I would correct from several incorrect allegations one, which is that a fellow representative in the debate pointed out that in the application of the examination of new medicines, this exclusively present medical ethics and morals. Apostluno colleagues incorrectly, in this part we have a series of regulations and legal provisions that strictly regulate this matter with very sharp sanctions unless the doctor or health care staff adheres to them.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24630	Dear Representative Ivan Bagarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24631	I thank Mr. President, I believe this is a very big and important moment I would say civilizedly, the reach of passing such a law and I support it and greet it. I'd just briefly look back on one thing about this law and it's actually patient satisfaction. So since the patient’s satisfaction can be associated with patients’ rights then, in fact, Article 2 already mentions that this law provides quality continuous health care. And it seems to me that it would be good if there was room for this to be mentioned in Article 3 that this law rests on the principles of humanity of availability and quality of health care. Health care. For what? Because satisfaction as such can be measured and directly related to the quality of health care. Also if there is room and if there is a need and I believe that Mr. Minister has far more info and more knowledge about this issue because he worked longer on it, so if there is room to include this thinking in this law. And that is that perhaps at the level of a health institution in a unit to promote the quality of health care, or of a person who manages it, it is the assistant director I think here in Croatia. It might be good for him to actually be the one to address the problem in terms of patients' rights as such. Among other things, let’s say that it is in direct relation to quality as such and let’s say in the second opinion who else will offer a second opinion quality second opinion if not again a person who understands it. It's a cosmetic kind of my short contribution, I've given up my discussion since the time has passed. I'd look back just at the end of these waiting lists because I think it's a real problem, but the problem that some here insist on, overemphasizing, and I'd say I was special in the health ministry at the Federation. Where there is a level of health care at a much lower level than here. And we had an official request from the Ministry of Health of England to present to them our options about total hip and knee acropasics because they have long lists. So if there are long lists in one England then you can imagine that the lists as such are a common phenomenon in the health system. Among other things, I have here a report from the World Health Organization for this past year that is full of data from the official data that Mr. Hebrang was talking about here and that are literally what he said. Therefore, health care levels and health care rights are related to opportunities. And we can't make up our wishes, this is a law on protecting patients' rights, not a wish list. So let's be realistic, and figure out where we are and where we are. The second thing Croatia's level of health care is I would say in a positive proportion to the issue of health care. Because this country, in its overall reach in healthcare, I think it's located somewhere by the World Health Organization's measurements somewhere in 35 places. Therefore, it is a very high position, given the extent to which it is allocated for health care. So in the end, my support for this law is that there is no need for any third reading or I don't know what we should actually be happy that we have passed one quality law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24632	Dear Representative Vladimir Šišljagic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24633	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Vice-President of the Croatian Government, colleagues and colleagues. Here, after years of discussion in the public, various NGOs, professional institutions and then the Croatian Medical Chamber, the Assembly of the Union, the Croatian Parliament discussed the bill on the protection of patients several months ago in the first reading. This final proposal today has brought to mind many remarks, better put forward most of the proposals and remarks made during the parliamentary debate, as well as all other participants expressed through the relevant parliamentary committees. It is important to amend the text of the final draft of the law, but it is also clearly demonstrated by the applicant's desire and intention to guarantee European standards and norms in part of patients' rights and the protection of these rights and laws. In this respect, the final draft law is fully in line with the legal acquis of the European Union and the legal acts of the Council of Europe. To this day, the truth of patients' rights is nowhere to be systematically normed. Unfortunately, in the exercise of their rights they used to wander quite often, they did not know where and whom to turn to for help to protect their rights, and rarely in their guaranteed rights, unfortunately, they were also denied. As a rule, the medical staff’s relationship, primarily with a doctor and patient, was based on medical ethics and mutual trust, but we must not forget that the patient’s rights were protected and are now protected by many or about 6 laws that protect patients’ rights. The advice or true health - related information must certainly not be a matter of one’s good will. It must be the right of every individual, and that right guarantees him precisely this Law, that is, this bill, and our obligation to patients, is to ensure that what they have legal right is implemented. The provisions of the proposed Law are widely and transparently normable, and determine the principles and procedures of promoting patients' rights, and the fundamental relationship of trust between doctors and patients protects them legally and institutionally. The patient’s right to co-determination and full information at all levels of health care and on all procedures during diagnostics, treatment and rehabilitation has been elaborated, the right to complete information in the situation of involving the patient in research or medical training with the full protection of the patient under which the research is carried out. The patient has wide open access to all medical documentation, his right to refuse a particular diagnostic or therapeutic procedure, stressed his right to the confidentiality of personal health data, the right to privacy, and, in particular, the right to respect the wishes made previously, and at times when he is not able to communicate it personally because of his health condition. The final draft of the law also defines and oversees its implementation through the Committee for the Protection of Patients' Rights at County and the Competent Ministry with a description of jobs, part-round work and powers, deadlines for resolving complaints, which is particularly important, and benefits for members of the Commission have been provided, which is expected to ensure more quality work of the committees themselves. It is true that the proposed text of the law does not speak of the patient’s obligations, that he did not distinguish the patient’s easy and serious infringements, but this and similar issue is well defined in the Health Protection Act, the Health Insurance Act, the Law on Medicine, Pharmacy and other laws whose provisions protect the patient’s rights. However, the provision of sanctions for breach of the provisions of this law has been ensured by this Final Proposal and judicial protection and the exercise of guaranteed patients' rights. And finally, let me get this straight. I fully support the Final Bill on the Protection of Patients' Rights in the Text as proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia in the belief that it is still an important step in establishing mutual trust between health care professionals and patients, but also the safety of patients that their rights are guaranteed by this special law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24634	Thank you very much. Minister Hebrang, go ahead. Final review.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24635	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honored ladies and gentlemen of the council. There are ten applicants of the amendment, and we will manifest ourselves clearly when the time comes. Now, I would just like to take a brief look at this debate and, in the sense of the conclusion of my presentation, I would say that some of the statements that have been corrected here are necessary, because of your own representatives, so, if we will, for this record. So, it is said in this debate that the funds are constantly being fucked and that the rights of our patients are constantly being fucked, the amount of drugs being fucked, so it reduces hope that this means, the amount of health services, etc. I have never advocated reducing the number of medical services or reducing the number of prescribed medicines used by the patient, but I am saying against those medicines that harm the patient and those tests that are too numerous and damage to the patient. Explanation. At a World Health Organization session when I exhibited about two months ago, I raised the issue of prescription drugs. The World Health Organization's data for the Republic of Croatia is this: 40% of the medicines prescribed to patients are not spent, not taken, the patient does not use them at all, they end up in trash or in drawers. That 40%, that's 2 billion kuna a year. Here, I stand for that part of the reduction, not the part that the patient takes, which it benefits, there must be no limit there, because it's a medical indication. I said that because of the fact that there would be no bitter picture of the reduction of drug precryption in Croatian health care. I didn't agree to euthanasia, and I won't agree for reasons I can't stand here, because it takes a lot more time. The committees that were founded here were meant by the county commission, as Mr Stazic said, not the municipal commission. There will therefore not be 400 commissions, but there will be 20 county and 1 state. Why didn't we agree to counsel? Because we believe that dislocated committees are more accessible to the patient than one lawyer in Zagreb. The patient certainly couldn't have come to him in any way. Mrs. Sobol's representative asked me why the money from the program wasn't spent, from the budget. Just for a little while. They were not spent on HIV because we received external sources of payment, so we will save this to the Croatian budget, and for many others we will not spend until the end of the year, because the projects end at the end of the year and then we will pay the authors of these projects. That's my answer. And as for the same-sex communities, we didn't include them in this Act, because they were consummated, and the same-sex communities in other laws, and we don't think they should be repeated. They would accept the opinion of Mrs Opačić and the SDP that child protection should be strengthened, so although it is definitely a duty in the Family Law not to work against the child's interests, this should indeed be seen with our lawyers whether they could strengthen that provision in this Act, although we have dropped it because we believe that it already exists, as the representative said. It's a Turkish. Finally, though, a few reflections on the rights of patients. I think that the rights of the patient in Croatia are at a very high level and this shows a very low incidence of complaints, and these complaints do not apply to almost anything that we have covered by this law, very rarely. The complaints are in 90% of cases on the kindness of the person. And for this reason, I believe that there are no laws that can solve the relationship of a patient – a doctor, but by raising a doctor, by raising health care professionals from the first day of their education, permanently during their working life, and that is what the ministry introduces as a special programme, and that is what we think should be supported because if we can convince our healthcare professionals, and most of course knows and practice it, that one human relationship is so that I can say a friendly relationship with a patient but in any case the kind foundation of each treatment and not only formally but in a medical sense, then the discussion of patients' rights will be much more rare on different judicial or other bodies. Finally, thank you very much for all the suggestions we will consider when accepting the amendments of these 10 applicants. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24636	Thank you very much. Ministers, my suggestion given the large number of amendments that you have time to consider them well to move Friday's vote on this bill next Friday. I'm closing the debate. Let's just go to one more very short point. The proposal for a decision to give authority to the Council, and, I apologize to her, my colleague, I apologize, my colleague Sobol, for my guilt, I was wrong, I was wrong, I was wrong, I was wrong, I was wrong, I was wrong, I was wrong.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24637	Mr. Minister, you said that regarding the rights of the same sex communities, Mr. Minister, I am correcting your allegations about the rights of the same sex communities that their rights are consummated in other laws. This is the Law on the Protection of Patients' Rights. In this law, their right is not consummated. I'd really like you to tell me in what law do partners in the same sex community have the right to see medical records in the event of the death of a patient who was with him or with her in the same sex community? I don't get it. We're talking about the Law on the Protection of Patients' Rights. There is a Law on the same sex communities that anti-discrimination law and as such is incorporated into all other laws.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24638	Thank you very much. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24639	Dear Madam MPs, thank you for the warning, but I think in the legislative activity the rule of not repeating the specifics that exist somewhere. By this principle, the same sex communities would have to be in every law and I wouldn't want to see them there.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24640	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24641	Mr. Minister, you didn't respond to my allegations. And this explanation that you have given in the Law on the same sex communities is not treated or at this time please answer at what time is this law talking about Article 24, Article 35 of this Law, which applies to the same sex community? You don't want to use them!
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24642	Thank you very much, that's a legal question. I'm finalizing a debate on this subject. Ladies and gentlemen, we are going to vote, please take your seats. First let's determine the quorum, please engage. Please don't use your phones now. The quorum? 94 MPs and deputies are in the hall. We're going to the vote. Final proposal of the Patient Protection Act, second reading, P.Z.E. Number 103. The debate on the text is over. We have a vote first on SDP's Opinion on the conclusion of the SDP Club. The SDP club proposed a conclusion proposing that a third reading be carried out on the final proposal for a Law on the Protection of Patients' Rights. The government is not up to such a proposal. Please, let's get on with it. And please vote on this proposal for the conclusion of the Club of Representatives of the SDP. I'm asking for a result. I find that 27, abstention 2 and 74 against the conclusion. So the conclusion didn't get the necessary majority. And now we're going to vote on the amendments. The president of the HDZ Club, a respected representative of Luka Bebic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24644	Mr President, on the basis of Rule 238, paragraph 6 of the Rules of Procedure, I pray that when amendments are voted on, they shall be voted on by the raise of hands because they will go faster.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24645	Thank you very much. Pursuant to Article 238a(6), at the request of the club representative, a vote will be held by hand, so that, in accordance with that request and the Rules of Procedure on amendments to the Final Proposal for the Law on the Protection of Patients' Rights in the Voting, we will vote by raising our hand. Mr. Minister, you have a plate and please take your place. May I have your attention, gentlemen and Madam Representatives? Amendment number one. SDP counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24646	It's unacceptable. Reason, the Law on Patients' Rights is not a good title, because this is the Law on the Protection of Patients' Rights. The patient's rights are defined by another law.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24647	The vote. Who is for this amendment to the SDP Representatives Club? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 2. Amendment of the Club of Representatives of libre.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24648	It's unacceptable. Namely, there is a requirement to be a doctor, a doctor, a patient, a patient, a member, and so on. We believe that this is, not in the spirit of Croatian language and that gender equality is guaranteed by the appropriate law. It's unacceptable. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24649	Don't throw it away, please. The club of representatives of the LIBRA asks for a vote. [[Intruder: Please vote.]] It's on. Who's in favour of this amendment? ... Thank you. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] He didn't get the necessary majority. 3. SDP counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24650	It is rejected because the concept of the protection of the patient's rights also includes the exercise of those rights, so it is covered by that term all and it is rejected.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24651	On behalf of the SDP, respected representative Zeljka Antunovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24652	Well, this is a very unusual explanation, I think, which is not normally based, because writing something on paper doesn't mean that what we witness every day will be accomplished, and especially witnesses are just patients who are waiting more and more and longer every day in front of hospitals and waiting lists resulting from unsustainable access. And that's why achieving it is not the same concept as protecting and promoting and asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24653	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 4. also Club of Representatives of the SDP.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24654	Now it is a series of amendments that the SDP Representatives Club obviously accepted from the text that I received from Mr Pusic, unfortunately 24 hours before voting on the law in the second reading, that we received over 6 months of debate, perhaps we could explain in more detail, so I can say that it is rejected because the institutions of the legal representative and patient president are not in the spirit of this law, so it is rejected.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24655	Representative Željka Antunović...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24656	So, on this first amendment of the whole series, which will be rejected obviously on this first explanation, it is clear, that it is true, I repeat that we have accepted the suggestions of experts, not Mr Pusic, but a whole group of experts who have worked very seriously and responsibly on this law. As a result, we have also proposed to achieve consensus and protection of patients' rights and to propose a third reading, but since this is rejected, since all amendments will be rejected, to make our contribution to cutting, wasting, wasted time rather than in the way proposed by the HDZ Club, yes, by re-introducing a hand vote on all these amendments that will be rejected, we will not rise again than ask for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24657	Thank you very much. ... May I have your attention, please? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Who's for this amendment number four? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment number 5. SDP counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24658	It is also rejected, because like most of these amendments, everything that is required in them already exists in other laws. So in this amendment, we refuse to formulate cultural values, religious beliefs because it's already all settled in other laws, so that we don't repeat this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24659	Please. Who's in favour of this amendment? He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment number 6.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24660	It is also rejected because we protect the rights of the patient, so we have the principles of protecting the rights of the patient and they are based on the rights of patients of European conventions. Therefore, this additive is rejected.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24661	Who's up for that amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 7th Amendment of the SDP Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24662	The same is rejected, because we believe that the variant that we put into the law is more acceptable and understandable.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24663	Who's up for that amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Minister, you can say when you're being obvious that you don't accept the amendment, the Parliament refuses or accepts, and you can only say that you accept and do not accept, not refuse. Amendment number 8. The Club of Representatives of libre.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24664	I accept this remark, but the 8th does not accept the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24665	Representative Jozo Radoš on behalf of LIBRE. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24666	Well, I'd just like to say that this is a false formulation, namely health protection is carried out on the basis of the principle of humanity and availability and the protection of patients' rights, I guess, under the law. Therefore, I ask that the amendment be voted upon. But since users and members are not in the spirit of Croatian language, they can hardly expect this to go away. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24667	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment number nine. SDP counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24668	It is also not accepted as an ex ante explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24669	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Ten. The Club of Representatives of libre.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24670	It is also not accepted, because all the principles listed here are already regulated by other laws, primarily by the Health Protection Act, but also by others.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24671	Amendment withdrawn number 10. 11. SDP counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24672	It is not accepted, because we believe that the term co-decision is better, because it shows the active role of the patient in deciding his fate.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24673	Please vote. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 12. also Club of Representatives of the SDP.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24674	Yes, it's also not accepted, because all of this has already been settled in other laws.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24675	Please vote. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 13 of the same SDP Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24676	It is also not accepted, because the provision is already in the Health Protection Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24677	Please. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 14th Representative of Gordana Sobol.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24678	It is also not accepted, as the issue is solved in the Health Protection Act and health insurance regulations.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24679	No MPs, please vote. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 15. SDP counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24680	Here the word "notification" is replaced by "information". We believe that notification is in the spirit of the Croatian language and is more appropriate, so that the amendment is not accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24681	Please vote. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 16. SDP counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24682	It is also not accepted, because patients' rights are required to be extended here, and I just remind you that in Article 5. Declarations on the promotion of patients' rights, so the European Declaration also says that all rights must be consistent with financial opportunities. So it's not acceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24683	Who's for amendment number 16. Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 17. National Minority Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24684	We also do not accept, because we believe that this has already been settled in the law on the rights of national minorities, that it is not repeated. We don't accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24685	A colleague of Chuhnell's.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24686	... [[speaks not included, can't be heard]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24687	Thank you very much. Amendment 17 withdrawn. Amendment 18 of the same committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24688	Amendment 18 is accepted, it really significantly improves, significantly improves the safety of people with disabilities, so it is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24689	Thank you very much. Amendment 18 is accepted and becomes an integral part of the Law. Amendment 19. SDP counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24690	We don't accept it, because it already exists in the applicable laws.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24691	To vote. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 20th of the same Club of Representatives of the SDP.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24692	It is also not accepted, because it is already regulated in the Health Protection Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24693	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 21. HNS, PGS.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24694	It's not acceptable, because it narrows down patients' rights. According to this amendment, the patient would have to contact the director of the institution for a second opinion, we believe that his right to seek a second opinion in other institutions. So it's not accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24695	Agent Lesar, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24696	I think, Mr. Minister, this is no real explanation for the refusal of this amendment, because it was in the function of it. That a patient who asks for a second opinion does not have to follow the instructions of a primary family doctor. That he didn't have to sign up and wait in line to get a second opinion after six or seven months. So, right now, the facility is in the position of obtaining an opinion. And this is how a patient who wants to get a second opinion after the first one, will sign in, wait for order, and a second opinion in the function of getting not immediately after 5, 6 months of waiting for specialist examinations. I'm looking for a vote on that.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24697	Please, who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 22. SDP counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24698	It is not accepted, because the health care bill also has already been resolved.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24699	Please vote. Thank you, he didn't get the necessary majority. 23. Also SDP's Club of Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24700	It is not accepted, because it is all intended to be settled by a regulation which will be adopted after this Act within the prescribed time limit.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24701	Please vote. Thank you, he didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 24. It's an HSN PGS rep club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24702	It's not acceptable, because it narrows patients' rights in emergency situations.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24703	Agent Lesar, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24704	The amendment went in terms of spreading patients' rights and allowing the patient to decide whether to undergo diagnostic or any other operational or...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24705	Except in an emergency.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24706	You won't comment on the ministers.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24707	Patient, it's his right to decide for himself both in secondary and emergency matters, whether or not to agree to diagnostics, therapy. The article of the Law that is proposed, which will remain Mr. Ministers in Croatia, introduces forced and violent treatment. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24708	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 25. The Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24709	It's not acceptable, because the variant that's in the law was proposed in the Human Rights Office of the Government, so we accepted their formulation. Amendments are not accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24710	Proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24711	There is no president of the board, no one has been authorized, so we have to vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24712	To vote. That's right, fellow, thank you very much. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 26. SDP counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24713	It's not accepted, because all the provisions are already settled by other laws.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24714	Please vote. Who's in? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 27th Amendment of the same Club of Representatives of the SDP.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24715	We accept this amendment because we believe it contributes to improving the safety of the child's treatment against parents.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24716	Thank you very much. Amendment 27 is accepted and becomes an integral part of the Law. 28th Amendment of the Club of Representatives of the HSN PGS.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24717	The 28th is not accepted, because it's settled by a special law, by the Transplant Act... [[/the speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24718	Agent Lesar, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24719	The provision of the right or obligation to respect the patient's previously expressed wishes may be resolved only by future laws on transplants and executions, we do not have the law in Croatia yet. But respecting the early wishes of patients about operating procedures, receiving other people's organs, tissues or bodies is not the subject of that, but should be the subject of this law. And in every respect, no one has the right to change the patient's previously expressed desire. By refusing this amendment, Mr. Minister, you are putting the patient in a situation where anyone who is referred to by a doctor may change that decision. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24720	Please vote. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 29. SDP counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24721	The institution of the patient's representative is not accepted, because it is quite different in this Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24722	Please vote. Thank you, he didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 30. National Minority Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24723	It is not accepted because it penetrates the doctor’s right to decide on the patient’s need for hospitalisation. It's a profession, not this law. Also, just to add that we cannot visit unlimitedly because of other patients in the hospital, there must be a home order prescribed by law.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24724	Please vote. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 31. SDP counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24725	It's not acceptable because it's all settled by existing laws.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24726	Please vote. Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 32nd representative of Kaja Bucan.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24727	This amendment is accepted because language is much better marked by informed consent. So we accept the consent of an informed patient.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24728	Thank you. It becomes an integral part of the law. 33 Clubs of Representatives of the SDP.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24729	We don't accept. Same explanation. Everything has already been settled in other legal and sublegal acts.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24730	Please vote. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 34 also Club of Representatives of the SDP.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24731	Same explanation. It's unacceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24732	Please vote. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 35 of the SDP Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24733	It's not accepted because it's settled in the Health Records Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24734	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. The 36th Amendment of the Club of Representatives of the SDP.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24735	It is also not accepted because the same-sex communities are resolved by another special law.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24736	Please vote. Who's in? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 37. National Minority Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24737	It's unacceptable. Same explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24738	Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24739	It's identical to the previous one, so since it's been rejected, it doesn't need to be voted. I'm pulling.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24740	Consumed. Amendment 37 has been withdrawn. 38. SDP counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24741	It's not acceptable because it's settled in the Transplant Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24742	To vote. He's not accepted. 39. The Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24743	It is also not accepted because it would actually put out of force all home rows of health institutions which would, of course, lead to a riot in everyday work.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24744	Please vote. Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 40 SDP representatives' clubs.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24745	He doesn't accept. Same explanation as before.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24746	Please vote. Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 41 SDP representatives' clubs.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24747	It is also rejected or not accepted because it reduces the patient’s right instead of extending.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24748	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the required majority of 42 club representatives of libre.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24749	It is not accepted because this formulation that we have proposed is in line with the rights of patients of the World Health Organization is one of the basic documents.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24750	Representative Jozo Radoš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24751	So, the minister gives quite an easy explanation, so one who is not a minister can hardly understand. But this is about having the right to notice, respectively.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24752	I'm asking MPs not to use cell phones. A few of you, please don't make a phone call.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24753	Therefore, protection of privacy is important in all these cases, so review, treatment, provision of personal care but is particularly important in the use of the right to notification. So we're just looking to protect the privacy of the individual. I don't know what would be contrary to any formulations of anyone or anything. I demand a vote on that amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24754	Please, who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 43 SDP representatives' clubs.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24755	It is not accepted because this whole matter is already regulated by the general rules of mandatory law.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24756	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 44 also the Club of Representatives of the SDP.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24757	It's not acceptable because it's a whole other concept than this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24758	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 45. SDP counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24759	It is also not accepted because we believe that we do not need a health attorney but that the concept of this law is different.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24760	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 46th Amendment of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Party of Retirement.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24761	It's not acceptable because it's already contained in the bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24762	I'm a colleague of the Hill.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24763	They cannot agree with the claim because this represents a more precise determination of the obligations required by the regional administration and self-government and is not enough to provide only compensation funds but also funds for the normal work of the commission. I consider this a contribution to a better performance of the commission. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24764	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 47th High Representative, Gordana Sobol.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24765	47 is not accepted because we believe that this has already been settled by specific laws on gender equality.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24766	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 48. HSU counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24767	We also don't accept for the same reasons.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24768	I'm a colleague of the Hill.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24769	We believe that this amendment is aimed at achieving the representativeness of the commission and we find it wrong not to respect it and, please, ask for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24770	Please, who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 49th also the Club of Representatives of HSU.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24771	It is not accepted because we also believe that it is already contained in the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24772	This is not foreseen by this law, and I cannot accept Mr. Secretary's interpretation. I demand a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24773	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Fifty. SDP counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24774	It is not accepted because the same-sex community is already regulated by the existing law.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24775	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 51. National Minority Representatives' Club. It was consummated with the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24776	Yeah.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24777	Because it's identical. Amendment 52 of the SDP Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24778	It's not acceptable because it's the other one, the whole other principle of protecting the rights that we've rejected in this law and applied the other.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24779	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 53rd Representative Gordana Sobol.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24780	We also do not accept because we believe gender equality is resolved by a special law.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24781	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 54. HSU counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24782	It is also not accepted because it is normal for the ministry to finance the overall work of its commission. It's already been settled by other acts.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24783	Hrelja's representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24784	I don't think this has been resolved by other laws, and we should have, in any case, considered that the overall content of the commission's activities should be specified, and we also consider that education for commission work is one of the essential procedures to be done in order for the commission to produce the desired results in the protection of patients' rights. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24785	Please, who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 55. SDP counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24786	It is also not accepted because it is related to that amendment that spoke about Article 17. So it's not acceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24787	Who's in favour of this amendment? Because it is. ... How is it out of the picture? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I don't mind that, but you said that Mrs. Antunovic, on all amendments that will follow the SDP that you won't explain, that you are asking for a vote. Here you go, Mrs. Antunovic, on behalf of the SDP.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24788	I have said very precisely in the amendments that we have taken over and have been said by a group of experts and as a club we have proposed them here and in this regard we have proposed a third reading. In addition to these amendments, the minister knows very well who they are because he received them and other amendments exist, counterpart Stazic reported on the basis of these amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24789	So these are the amendments that didn't take over?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24790	Yes!
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24791	Representative Stazic on behalf of the promoter.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24792	The Honorable Minister, therefore, is about the attached amendment to Amendment 27 that you have accepted. Amendment 27 makes an obligation with a healthcare professional that if a minor is in the care of his or her health and the parent opposes treatment to immediately inform the competent care center and you accept that and that is a good thing that you have accepted. We are now talking about criminal provisions of a law that provides for sanctions for a healthcare professional who does not comply with that provision. So, it would be perfectly logical for you to accept this, I believe it's a lapus when you refuse it because what would be our obligation to a health care professional if there's no sanctions, if he doesn't do so? So this is about sanctions for a health care facility in the 55th Amendment and 56th for a healthcare professional. I think it's a lapus, a mistake.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24793	I accept, accept the amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24794	Amendment 55. The SDP representative club was adopted, becoming an integral part of the law. 56th also Club of Representatives of the SDP.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24795	And this one we accept, it's also related to earlier those provisions.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24796	Thank you. Amendment 56 is accepted and becomes an integral part of the Law. And 57. SDP counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24797	57 we don't accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24798	This has already been consummated since the Institute of Health has not been accepted. Thank you very much, Minister. We've exhausted the amendments. Now we're going to vote on the law. Please engage. Please vote! Score! I find that the Law on the Protection of Patients' Rights was passed with 80 votes for, 30 abstentions and 4 against. We have another conclusion about this law, it's from the Committee on Gender Equality. This conclusion reads: It is up to the Government of the Republic of Croatia to respect gender equality when proposing laws and other acts in all the provisions in which the male/female generation is called. Minister Hebrang, I ask your and your government's testimony regarding this proposal for this conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24799	We do not accept this because it is true, I would say in a Croatian way that two forms are written about each directory, and it is not a custom in the world either. I think it's all settled by law, and here's the argument that we don't accept the conclusion. ... I'd accept that, but it's not suggested. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24800	I am voting on the proposal for this conclusion. Score. I'm establishing 20 votes for closure, six abstentions, 73 against. We have another proposal of the conclusion of the Club of HNS Representatives, the PGS, which reads: The Ministry of Health and Social Care undertakes that within 30 days of the entry into force of the Act on the Protection of Patients' Rights, print the text of the law as a separate brochure and makes it not available to all citizens of the Republic of Croatia, users of health insurance rights, especially to patients, or their relatives when receiving the health care facility. Minister, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24801	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24802	Minister, who will pay you 4.5 million brochures?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24803	Here, if you'll excuse me. We're preparing anyway, we've prepared a brochure for the health insurance notice and it's been divided these days. And we're preparing a brochure with all the rights of patients from other laws and we're just waiting just now to get this and add it. So that's what we predicted in our expenses. It's a simple brochure and it won't be a big expense.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24804	Minister. It says here to all citizens of the Republic of Croatia. That's four and a half million.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24805	No, I don't. We're thinking of putting it in every health care facility and office in the waiting room so whoever wants to read it won't take it with them but will leave someone behind. In that sense, they would accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24806	Make it available? Okay. Good! On behalf of the HNS Proposer Club, the PGS.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24807	I must express my satisfaction this time because the minister understands the intensity of this conclusion very well. And I think that's exactly what we were going to suggest is under the citizens, the patients, we thought those who came to medical institutions where they could get them.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24808	It's good. Yeah, it's okay!
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24809	Although it's unorthodox, I'm pleased this is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24810	Thank you very much. May I have your attention, please? Yeah, it's okay, colleague Lesar, because in the end he stands at the reception of a health care facility so that in that sense it should be interpreted. I am putting this proposal to the vote. There's a God, Mrs. Pusic! The promoter is, it is not on your bill, it is a proposal for a conclusion that the Government accepts and on this, it is the position of the Government, which is accepted by the minister and please vote FOR, PRITOV, SUPPOSED! Score! I find the conclusion accepted 101 votes for, 5 abstentions and 8 against. Let's move on. So we're going on. - The proposal for a decision to give power to the Council of the Croatian Telecommunications Agency is proposed by the Government. [[We'll wave with that.]] The debate was conducted by the Committees on Law, Information, Information and Media. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to second reading shall apply. I ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of the Sea, tourism, transport and development, Drazen Breglec, to further explain the proposal, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24812	Thank you. Your Honor, Mr. President, imported ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. As there was no debate on any of the boards on this point, I am convinced that this point will take very little time to discuss and at this distinguished House. In any case, the argument that one technical decision on granting consent to one procedure provided for by the Telecommunications Act in its transitional and final provisions was sufficient also at the level of the Committee, I am convinced that it will be sufficient here, therefore, to grant consent to the Croatian Telecommunications Agency will be allowed to clear the existing non-existent but still registered telecommunications and telecommunications offices which have ceased to exist and act at the time of the appointment of the Croatian Agency of Members, the Council of the Croatian Telecommunications Agency. Therefore, since such a legal provision is that the Croatian Parliament gives the Council the power to delete these two institutions and to enroll its own activities then I ask you to give such power to the Croatian Telecommunications Agency. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24813	I thank the Secretary of State. Do the Committee's rapporteurs want to? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. In the name of the club... What? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] On behalf of the IDS Club, the esteemed representative of the Poirot, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24814	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. In accordance with the Law on Telecommunications, the Croatian Telecommunications Agency as a national regulatory agency for the conduct of regulatory and other affairs of the sea has been given a decision from this High House on the granting of power to the Council of the Croatian Telecommunications Agency in order to be able to apply within the time limits laid down by law to apply for the removal from the Court Register of the Telecommunications and the Croatian Telecommunications Office and to apply for the registration of the Croatian Telecommunications Agency in the Court Register. However, allow me to refer in my debate to what is most important for the users of telecommunications services and these are the principles and objectives that the Croatian Telecommunications Agency or the Council of the Croatian TK Agency must achieve in particular, and I will only list some. Therefore, it must take care of the interests of the users of telecommunications services. Secondly, it must ensure a high level of consumer protection, undermining the protection of the users of telecommunications services. Third, it must promote the availability of transparent information on the prices and conditions of the use of public TK services, ensure and promote effective and sustainable competition on the telecommunications market with equal opportunities for all market participants. It must encourage market access to new service providers and the introduction of new innovative telecommunications services and technologies. Furthermore, it must ensure and promote the other principles of telecommunications users but also prevent abuses of a dominant position in the telecommunications market. What I would like to draw attention to is that finally, the Council of the Croatian Telecommunications Agency will, as soon as possible, provide users and third mobile operator and other fixed operator with the intention of naturally increasing competition in the Croatian telecoms market and will ultimately reduce the price of impulses or account service users. The Council of the Croatian Telecommunications Agency must also protect telecommunications users and listen to the instructions of the companies and associations protecting consumers, and do everything possible to abolish the telecommunications subscription. Furthermore, to protect telecommunications users from paying the unused part of the tariff interval, which means that the service user stops paying what is not under the quote "expended". Namely, the tariff interval is one minute, and if the user speaks for example. One minute and one second pays two minutes. So, for one used second, he pays a whole minute. Of course, this is not acceptable, and the IDS Club is asking the Council of the Croatian Telecommunications Agency to protect telecommunications users from irregularities and to accept amendments and supplement the Telecommunications Act which provides a solution for such irregularities. The IDS Club will support this decision to give power to the Council of the Croatian Telecommunications Agency with the hope that this council will begin to exercise its powers in favour of the users of services. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24815	Thank you. Dear Representative Anton Kapraljevic, on behalf of the HNS club PGS.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24816	Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. On behalf of the Croatian People's Party and the PGS, I propose not to adopt this proposal temporarily, i.e. to postpone the vote on this proposal until the new Committee on Conflict of Interests has held that the appointment of members of the Council is not done as it should be done in relation to the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interest, i.e. There is a high probability that some of the members of the Council were in conflict of interest. And why is that? First, since this has not been decided by the Council on the selection of a third operator. Secondly, since this was not repeated by the Council but has opened a new tender that has far different conditions and the third most important, the non-election of the third operator by the Council has not completed its task, which is to reduce the price of phone calls in Croatia. I therefore propose that a group of five magnificent as long as the new Commission for the Prevention of Conflicts of Interests does not consider their situation we do not give the possibility to delete the Council of Telecommunications and the Croatian Telecommunications Office from the court register and I propose that this decision be postponed in any case.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24817	Thank you. Does the secretary of state want more final consideration? Thank you. Drazen Breglec, State Secretary. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24818	Thank you, Mr. President. Not avoiding the debate on such important topics that have been such as these in recent days, weeks have been gathering the Croatian public, I must certainly say that the debates here have largely come out of the context of the intensities of this Decision on granting consent. In any case, there are a few things that need to be clarified. The Telecommunications Agency's Council will correct the alleged issue in the debate, presented, opened a new tender and could not repeat the previous tender for a simple reason because part of the matter that was called, so part of the concession was awarded in the previous competition. Therefore, the significant differences in the content of the new tendering had to be made from a simple fact, since the two YMTS concessions were awarded for the first tender while there were almost no other amendments in the tendering technique in addition to that necessary. Certainly not wanting here to interpret the procedures of the Croatian Telecommunications Agency because I do not have the authority to do so, but I still want to give some clarifications which can point to the wrong conclusion. I think that by going back to the matter of this Decision on granting consent, in fact, to the power of the Council of the Croatian Telecommunications Agency, I would like to say that waiting, in particular waiting for one such risk condition, to understand this, please, bodies as a conflict, the Commission for a decision on conflict of interest, by leading the experience from the near past, could actually cause and lead to a situation that such a decision could not be taken for months to come, perhaps even a longer period of time which would certainly come in the coming year, thus opening up the possibility of speculation as to whether the Croatian Telecommunications Agency's regulator is registered, whether it is a legal person with full powers, whether it can make decisions which, of course, would lead to further opening up the possibility of contesting the legality of the Croatian Telecommunications Agency, and, of course, could be made even greater damage. That's why I'm asking for this to be decided as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24819	Thank you very much. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24820	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Mr. President, I would like to correct Mr. Secretary of State's claim that these two discussions have come out of the table of the proposed agenda. I remind you that this is a Council appointed by the Parliament and the Council, which corresponds to the Parliament for its work. Since we have clearly expressed our doubts in the debate on their appointment, and there have been no reports in this Council in the meantime, our proposal... to adopt such a decision is precisely because we do not agree to the further work of this Council until we have cleared up the problems and conditions for which we have been against such composition. So it's about this Council that fits the parliament, not the government and the ministry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-10-0.u24821	All right, although there is also a debate on the decision of the former Parliament, on the appointment of the Council and on the decisions of the Council which it has made. Okay. I'm closing the debate. Ladies and gentlemen, tomorrow we will continue at 9.30 p.m. with the Final Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Loan Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development and for the financing of a project to protect against water pollution in the coastal area, followed by the Final Proposal for a Law on Protection and Rescue and the Final Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on freshwater fisheries. It's for tomorrow, maybe more, but it'll be enough. I'm interrupting the session. Resume at 9.30 p.m. We are going to vote on a proposal for a decision to give power to the Council of the Croatian Telecommunications Agency. We have a few conclusions here. The debate is closed. I'm voting on the motion for a decision. Please, let's get involved first. We can vote for, against, abstention. Score. I find that the decision was made by a majority of 98 votes for, four abstentions and five against. In this regard, we also have a proposal for a conclusion. HSP representatives' club proposed the following conclusion: It undertakes the Government of the Republic of Croatia to make the contract between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and Deutsche Telekom on the privatisation of HT concluded in 98 and 2001 with accompanying documents at the latest until the adoption of the State budget for 2005. The government's representative disagrees with the proposal for this conclusion. Please vote. Score. I find that the proposal was voted by 38, 2 abstentions and 60 against, so that conclusion did not get the required majority.
