ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15335	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen. It is about what we will all agree on an extremely important topic for Croatia. It's a painful subject that everyone has no difference and no exception, and no matter what political option we belong to, we feel that she's painful and that she's heavy and we're aware of her weight. It should also be said in the beginning that we are aware of its weight because Croatia was attacked in the war, which was the victim of great Serbian aggression and, despite the adverse world circumstances, managed to defend itself, win and independence, eventually create an armed force that in those famous operations "Blash" and "Storm" that enters Croatia in gold letters freed its country, or central parts of Croatia, and then by diplomatic effort and that part of the entire state territory that was not released in these operations, but for another 2, 3 years was under occupation on 15 January 98th in the state territory and in, under the constitutional and legal ancestor of the Republic of Croatia. We are proud of all these events, and all these events are, and we are putting them as a whole under the title of the Homeland War, in the very foundations of Croatian statehood. And there is no such thing in Croatia, at least I hope a serious politician who would question the legitimacy of the Homeland War, his justice, his defensive freedom status. That is why, in the previous meeting of the Parliament, we have brought a declaration of the Homeland War, in which we are all establishing it, and we are determining that Croatia was not an aggressor, that it was not a conquerive war, but that it was a war of defence. When we know all this, then we are with full right proud of our defenders who gave their lives or part of the body or sacrifice, will, heart, heart for the defense of Croatia, we are proud of our generals and other high-ranking officers who led the defenders and who thus deserved to be always grateful to them. and in charge of Croatia, the Croatian people and all Croatian citizens for ever. That's what I want to say first. The question has been raised over the past years often, no matter what political option was in power, can the Homeland War in such a war that is liberating, which is defensive, which is just, which is legitimate, be committed crimes? Our answer is yes, unfortunately. And the answer to that requires immediate addition, i.e. a description. It can't and it's inadmissible that the crime that was committed is transferred as a slide some kind of collective responsibility, but it has to be individualised and it has to be individually processed. And in that sense, I don't think there's any doubt that we'll agree, that if a crime was committed, no matter who committed it, it had to answer for it. I am also aware of those great historical, i.e. legal truths that are in the foundations of every rule of law that everyone is innocent until proven otherwise. So we can't talk about anyone else until the whole process and the court procedure is complete, but that he's innocent. In that sense, I felt that this was important for the introduction to this debate. And that's why I'm going to say that we represent the thesis that co-operation with the International Penalty House in The Hague is unquestionable. Croatia as a victim of aggression already there in 91st, 92st asked the International Community to form a tribunal that would sanction the terrible war crimes committed against Croats in the Homeland War. In order to sanction everything that happened in Škabrnja, Voćin, Osijek, Sibenik, Zadar, Dubrovnik, and not to list all other places, to sanction the killing of 15 thousand people in Croatia in the Homeland War still around 7.5 thousand Croats from Bosnia and Herzegovina, 35,000 disabled people in the Homeland War, 35,000 disabled in Bosnia and Herzegovina Croats. And that's why we insisted on installing an International Criminal Court that would sanction crimes. Here we should say, what is very important for our relationship with The Hague, that the Croatian co-founder of The Hague, The Hague tribunal, is a member of the United Nations which founded it with Resolution 827, 1993. So we're co-founders of the International Criminal Court in The Hague. And since we are a member of the United Nations, it is our duty to cooperate with The Hague. And that's why, ten years ago, we brought here in this high house a constitutional law on co-operation with the International Criminal Court in The Hague, because it was our obligation, as well as our request for this and such court to be installed to sanction crimes. We have witnessed large discussions in the past and in the Parliament, and in the public, whether Croatia should or should not cooperate with The Hague. Our answer is, we need to cooperate with The Hague. But it is also our answer that this cooperation should not take place at political level, but at legal level. And that's why at the beginning of our term, we said that there would be no more council, or an institution that was autonomous until this term of office of the new government and a new assembly of parliament, and we threw it into the Ministry of Justice. So we took away this autonomous status, so that we would also show that cooperation is not political, but legal, and it is now part of which is run by Minister Muljacic's assistant is part of the Ministry of Justice, so we went from political level to legal level. And then there were charges where we immediately said two things. The co-operation, yes, but unacceptable qualifications from the indictments that have arisen in the indictments against Generals Cermak and Markac, and that is also the cause of this debate today, that is, the topic of today's debate, but also in those 6 indictments against six indictees suspected of conflict in Bosnia and Herzegovina, we have said, our opposition, our non-acceptance, our refusal of these political unacceptable qualifications does not exclude cooperation. So, for us cooperation yes, but also a political diplomatic legal struggle and the killing of the thesis that doesn't correspond to the truth about the Homeland War. And for this reason, on 6 March after the indictments brought against General Cermak and Markac Ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, I sent a letter to the President of the Court of Justice, Mr Meron, in which I expressed our disagreement, that is, our refusal of those qualifications in the indictment. And what qualifications were practically the cause of unnecessarily and bickering between individual political options because we all agreed that they were unacceptable. In that letter to the President of the Court of Justice, and I have shown that to some presidents, I think most of the presidents of the parliamentary parties, I have announced this disagreement with these parts of the indictment that Croatia will use all international legal instruments and mechanisms to engage as an interested party in the process. Will that be? It is likely to be, it will most likely be in the capacity of an amicable friend of the court because these parts that imply the responsibility of the Croatian state are totally unacceptable to us because it is inadmissible for us and for which the Hague tribunal is sure to receive very strong strong arguments that will bring down these issues. After the indictment against six Croats for the conflict in Bosnia and Herzegovina appeared, I also wrote a letter to the President of Meron announcing that Croatia would also be involved, not by agreeing to these charges, in such qualifications and not by questioning its co-operation with The Hague, that Croatia would also become an interested party to defend the truth about the Homeland War and through this defence of the Homeland War in order to help the defenders themselves, i.e. suspects. I can say here in front of the Croatian public in this House that both letters I sent to the President of the Court of Justice, Theodore Meron, were positively answered and that the President of the Court said that he welcomes the fact that Croatia wants to engage in the process and that we will discuss mechanisms and instruments and ways of involvement in the process. And that is why I am pleased to say here that we have taken the decision at the cabinet meeting to set up a Council for the Preparation of Friends of the Court before the International Criminal Court in The Hague in its composition: Prof. Dr. Željko Horvatic, Prof. Dr. Mirjam Damascus, a respected expert from the United States, one of the world's leading experts, Croatians, Prof. Dr. Davor Krapac, Prof. Dr. Mirko Valentić, Prof. Dr. Angelko Mijatović, Prof. Dr. Josip Jurčević, Prof. Dr. Petar Sarčević and Dr. Young Clementine. They all agreed, for which I especially thank them, to participate in the work of this Council for the Preparation of Friends of the Court once the process begins. I also want to say that at the beginning of our term, we solved a major problem that was a bone in the throat and the last government, our previous government, and these were documents for General Ante Gotovina and his lawyers who were looking for them and they didn't get them. We found a way to hand over these documents requested by General Gotovina's defense to his lawyers. We have also provided an insight into the relevant documentation of the defence of all suspected or accused Croatian citizens and have referred to the parliamentary procedure these days of the proposed law adopted by the Government unanimously, the proposal for a law establishing the Croatian Memorial Documentation Centre of the Homeland War whose aim is to preserve and promote the truth about the Homeland War. That law will be, I hope, soon to be debated. I can, I can say, however, I can say that after those first inter-party talks that we said that we wanted to accept and talk to you both and comply with the bill and I think your members participated in the draft of the Law. So when he comes, he'll be at the hearing and you'll see. I hope that, that they were involved, that yours were involved in making that bill. It must be, that, that, the documentation centre must fulfill two functions. One is that in one place we have a real archive that is still scattered, which is still located even in private persons that should not be, to be in one place. That was one goal. Another goal would be to assist defence through his work with concrete documents in processes. We should also say that in both cases, and in the case of the indictment against Generals Cermak and Markačka, but also in the case of charges against six, that we issued guarantees on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Croatia that, which were necessary and necessary in order to achieve that they can defend themselves from freedom. Ladies and gentlemen, it doesn't matter, and I mean very clearly, it doesn't matter, let's take a case or an example of General Ademi who's been here for three years and not in The Hague. Therefore, if there is a possibility and there is in the case of Generals Cermak and Markac to also defend themselves from freedom and prepare the process of freedom here in Croatia, to do everything in our power to achieve it. It's one of the most important goals. The code, when it comes to six people in the second group, is then to say that there is also our goal and that we issued guarantees on behalf of the Republic of Croatia in which we say to the court that we guarantee that they can defend themselves from freedom and that we guarantee that they will be here. It's going to take longer than that, according to them. Because those first interviews, the discussions with the prosecution that Generals Cermak and Markac did in Zagreb, they did not, so the process will take a little longer. But our goal is both in one and the other, both in one case and in the other, to defend each other from freedom. Therefore, the guarantees that we have issued in the case of Generals Cermak and Markac I hope and want to express my deep confidence and hope that they will have impact and that after these interviews have been carried out, which have been requested to be a positive solution to the request of their lawyers, and that both of the generals will soon be at large and that both of the generals will soon be at large, and that they will defend themselves and prepare their process here in Croatia and not in Hague custody. I would like to say one more thing, which we are not much of, which we haven't talked about in public so far, the government is also helping members of the family of all Croatian citizens in The Hague, with principles of humanity as well as the rules of international law on the protection of their citizens abroad. When I say that I do not want to talk about the details, I will only mention it to worry about schooling, scholarships and other needs because for us these people are still what they were, which means they are responsible for establishing and liberating independent and sovereign Croatia, and that until they are proven guilty, they are innocent. There were words here and I will say very clearly, that this government, there were words from the opposition addressed to us, that this government was delivering Croatian generals simply as they say. I want to make it very clear that each of them, and when it came to General Cermak and Markac, and when it came to Group 6, that they had already come to the first articles and announcements in the media, asking for help from the Government and demanding with a very clear view, we are ready to go, but we ask you to help. We ask you to help with logistics, legal assistance and guarantees that you will issue on behalf of the Government, on behalf of the Croatian State, so that we can defend ourselves. It was their decision. I am like the prime ministers as a Croatian, ordinary Croatian man I welcome because this shows that, like the Homeland War, they defended Croatia and were heroes and they have lasting merits for Croatia's freedom, that they have now shown in a difficult situation that they are willing to sacrifice themselves for Croatia. And Croatia must not forget it, but through all these kinds of help that I have spoken of, from the help of the family, from legal assistance and logistics to them, from interfering in the judicial process as... My friends... [[The speaker speaks Latin, he doesn't understand.]] where we can bring and bring the help needed in the processes through a series of arguments. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Croatia will repay them. In that sense, ladies and gentlemen, I will remind you of only one case that happened about seven years ago. In 97, 98, then, the defence minister was called to testify in The Hague under the so-called "Defence". Supena. We were insolent in the process and as friends of the court managed to obtain the ruling of the Judicial Council, contrary to the prosecution, that Croatia did not have to accept the instrument and mechanism of the suspension, and then the defence minister did not go to The Hague under the threat of punishment, or sanctions. Therefore, I think that through this role of Croatia, but of course, through an argumentable performance can be gained much more than can be obtained if Croatia is not active. And finally, four objectives of our government, and I mean, I suggest that they be four goals for all of us, all of our activities with regard to The Hague, not including cooperation with him. I repeat, cooperation once again, yes, but we also believe that not accepting and killing certain qualifications also falls under co-operation. It is also in cooperation because it takes place in one interaction, and I think it is important for all of us to defend the truth about the Homeland War. So the first goal is to defend the historical truth of the Homeland War through various mechanisms. Friends of the court,... , or some other mechanisms. [[The speaker speaks Latin, he doesn't understand.]] The second goal is to help the defence through the inclusion in the process, but it means suspects and defendants. The third goal is to help them and do everything possible to defend themselves from freedom, as in General Ademi's case. I repeat, it doesn't matter if it's been three years between 2001 and today, and exactly three years since his indictment, because he was sitting in custody or was here. That's the third one, so help everyone to defend themselves from freedom. And the fourth goal, to transfer cases and processes to Croatia because I am also finishing up, according to the UN Security Council decisions and the resolutions in question, ladies and gentlemen, the Hague Prosecutor's Office can only press charges until the end of this year, until 31 December 2004. After that, no longer, the Security Council's court is due until 2008 and will be left for two years for possible complaints, for this additional process, but therefore, the prosecution can file charges only by the end of this year and then no more, and in 2008, the court must conclude its work. Therefore, I call on all the political forces in Croatia to raise ourselves above party interests on these important issues and if we have not so far, and if we have not been to the debate so far, this debate in the Croatian Parliament was only for one single reason, and that is to be guided by the fact that we do not harm the people who are there. First of all, Markach and Cermak are expecting a decision to defend themselves from freedom. First of all motivated by it. I don't want to use their case because it's not easy for them, either, and I don't want to tell them that they've been begging us that they've been through their lawyers to take care of it, and that the timing of the debate, and the way and character of the debate, has led us to help them, not to be able to. But only to say so because the truth about the Homeland War is above all else, and that's the first goal. And that's why I didn't put their fates first. I put first the truth about the Homeland War because it is the foundation of the modern Croatian state. And there is no such thing, especially in the ranks of my party, which would have missed anything in defending the truth about the Homeland War and in full engagement because we were the ones who were responsible for the state in the early 1990s, based on the decision of Croatian voters and who led the state through all the difficult but glorious events. And so, no matter how the debate is going, we're going to stand by to reach a consensus on this, and we're going to have to have a consensus on these four truths, or four goals. First, the truth about the Homeland War, which is fundamental. Second, that's how you help the suspects and the defendants. Third, help to defend themselves from freedom, as I said, because it is not anyway to sit in custody and be in Croatia. And fourthly, to achieve the transfer of cases to Croatia. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15336	I thank the Prime Minister, Dr. Ivy Sanader. We have two corrections to incorrect allegations. Representative Nenad Stazic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15337	The imprecise claim made by Prime Minister Sanader, therefore, is for Ivo Sanader and his government, therefore, for HDZ to deal with the court legally, not a political issue. As evidence I quote from the phonogram from the 14th extraordinary session held in 16.7.2001. The question of all the questions raised before the prime minister and his government, but also before the Croatian Parliament and the Croatian public, was this: "will we act according to this arrest warrant based on such unacceptable accusations or will we do something against such a policy because it is no longer just a judicial process but a policy. Because politics is everything that goes beyond qualifications that could be used against these people." So, for Prime Minister Sanader and HDZ, the relationship to The Hague has always been politics before and today. The only thing that's changed is 180 degrees, which I usually welcome.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15338	The next amendment is a respected representative of Ante Markov.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15339	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. President of the Croatian government, I said the indictments should be dropped at the legal level, not at the political level. Absolutely, legal norms need to be opposed to every indictment. However, wanting to contribute immediately to the very beginning of a consensus on this topic, it should also be pointed out that you cannot at the legal level.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15340	And the esteemed representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15341	So the Prime Minister said that the government has prepared a bill concerning the Croatian Memorial Documentation Centre of the Homeland War and that it has allowed others to participate. It was the other way around. On 19 April 2004, the HSP Club submitted in the process of passing this law, Minister Biskupić came to the party president and to me that the government would like to join and we have made a joint text of the bill and we welcome that it will finally come to the meeting of the Croatian Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15342	Thank you very much. I'd like the Minister of Justice, Vesna Skare-Ozbolt, to take your word.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15343	Mr. President-in-Office of the Parliament, Mr. President-in-Office of the Government, the honourable ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Immediately after taking office, the government made it very clear that the need to reroute co-operation with The Hague tribunal from political to legal level. It has shown that it will consistently implement the laws adopted by this home, particularly the Constitutional Law on Cooperation with the International Criminal Court of 96, as well as international legal obligations. The government has in particular kept in mind a report by the Constitutional Court of Croatia since 12 November 2002 on certain issues related to the indictment against General Janko Bobetka. In this report, the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia assessed that it was not competent to assess either the consent or the opposite of the general acts of the United Nations and its bodies with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. Neither is it in the process of protecting human rights nor fundamental freedoms to decide against individual decisions of any part of the United Nations, nor is the International Criminal Court in The Hague established by the Security Council. But also in the report, the Constitutional Court made it clear that some of the indictments could only be proved in court proceedings before the court in charge, which in particular means only before the UN tribunal. Further to the existing legislation providing the legal framework for co-operation with the International Criminal Court, the Government adopted on 15 January this year a national programme for Croatia to join the European Union, which clearly confirms the political will for full co-operation with the International Criminal Court. In this regard, the government has immediately established a constructive and open dialogue with the UN tribunal as one of its priorities in order to contribute effectively to the successful completion of the international criminal court's mandate in accordance with the deadlines set by the UN Security Council. and such dialogue has been operationally monitoring and monitoring the daily co-operation between the Office for Cooperation with the International Criminal Tribunal of the Ministry of Justice and the Office for the Liaison of the Criminal Court in Zagreb, resulting in a complete urgency in resolving the court's request. At the same time, while respecting the decision of the competent court, the lawyers of General Gotovina have been given the documents necessary for his defence, this government has shown full respect for the judicial authority in Croatia, as well as to consistently implement the conclusion of the Croatian Parliament since 17 October 2003, by which the Parliament obliged the Government and the other authorities of the state administration to provide legal assistance to all former and present members of the Croatian military and regular forces, who are either found with the status of suspects or indictees of the International Criminal Court as well as their lawyers with legal assistance and access to documents necessary for the defence. With regard to equal rights of insight and delivery of documentation to all parties in the procedure, this government has enabled full insight and defence of suspected or accused Croatian citizens, fully applying the legal obligations undertaken in this way and mentioning the conclusion of the Croatian Parliament. and just like this, the open approach to cooperation resulted in the complete response of all invited persons both in witness capacity and in the capacity of suspects to talk to Hague investigators, and... our competent authorities of the Republic of Croatia. And thus, the government has shown that, with legal obligations, honor and dignity of persons invited to talk to Hague investigators, considering exactly their merits in the Homeland War. The government's sensitivity in protecting the historical importance and dignity of the Homeland War has also been demonstrated by the UN tribunal's indictments against General Markac and Cermak in early March this year. and precisely on politically unacceptable parts of these charges, and in order to defend the truth about the Homeland War, the Prime Minister, Dr Ivo Sanader, sent a letter to the President of the Court of Justice, Theodore Meron, announcing that the Republic of Croatia would use all legal means aimed at challenging these allegations and protecting its national interests in the process to be conducted before the Hague Court of Justice. both generals and Markac and Cermak, after getting acquainted with the content of the indictments, immediately declared that they would appear voluntarily before the court, and the government issued guarantees to the UN tribunal for their temporary release and on 11 March this year, accompanied by their lawyers, travelled to The Hague. The following day at the first appearance of the court, they were declared not to feel guilty about the parts the indictment was charged with and on April 1st, a debate was held over their request for temporary release, and the minister of justice personally confirmed the government's guarantees. On April 29th, this year, the Judicial Council rejected a request by the accused for temporary release, but without prejudice to the Croatian government's guarantees. Chief prosecutor Carla Del Ponte said on several occasions that after talks with both Generals and Markac and Cermak in The Hague would not object to their temporary release. and on 24 June of this year, during a visit by the Minister of Justice of The Hague, and after meeting with the chief prosecutor, it was noted that further discussions were carried out on the ground, and it is expected that, before the court's summer break, lawyers would again request the court to be released temporarily this time without opposition. In early April of this year, The Hague tribunal indicted General Petkovic, Praljko, Prlic, Stojic, Valentin Coric and Berislav Pusic. They are charged with serious violations of humanitarian rights committed during the war in Bosnia. and all six indictees expressed their willingness to surrender voluntarily and, on 5 April, accompanied by their lawyers and again with guarantees from the Croatian government for their temporary release to The Hague. The next day at the first appearance before the court, all declared that they did not feel guilty about the work that was being put on them. and it should be said that this indictment also contains political harmful qualifications for the Republic of Croatia and the prime minister has again sent a letter to the President of the Court, which announced Croatia's legal intervention in the proceedings before the court in order to protect national interests. Consistently implementing the decisions and conclusions of the Croatian Parliament, the rules of international law on the protection of its citizens abroad and the principles of humanity, the Government has, as you have heard, decided to help families of all Croatian citizens in custody in The Hague and this assistance is exclusively humanitarian and is related to the cost of staying and the travel expenses of family members in The Hague. However, it should be reiterated that this government protects the historical importance and dignity of the Homeland War and immediately responds to the politically harmful allegations of public statements by senior officials and, as I have already said on two occasions, to the President of the Court of Justice on the legal intervention of Croatia in those proceedings before the court for the protection of national interests. And in that sense, we have received assurances from the President of the Court that such proceedings are legitimate and consistent with the statutes of the court. As Government, we will do everything to show the competence of the Croatian judiciary to base Article 11. The Rules on Procedures and Evidence take over war crimes trials committed in the territory of Croatia for which the Hague Court is conducting investigations. And we have also convinced the prosecution and we will convince the Hague Court that the Croatian judiciary is indeed quite slow to take on such trials. Perhaps one more thing should be said about this latest case of the indictment against General Norc and Ademi where there is a publicly announced intention of the prosecution to ask the court to decide which case would be subject to the Croatian judiciary. In accordance with the existing rules of the Statute and the Regulation on procedure and evidence in the case of Norac, the Court decided that General Norac must appear in The Hague and give his statement. In doing so, he refused to appeal to the prosecutor that there is no need for him to appear before the Hague court since there is a intention of the prosecution to propose that the case be transferred to Croatia. However, the court took the view that it is necessary to step by step that General Norac must appear in The Hague and only then will the court decide on the merger of the case and the transfer of the case to the Croatian judiciary. Indeed, I would like to say once again that the Croatian Government will do everything to establish and defend the truth about the Croatian Homeland Defence War and, in that sense, use all the legal means and offer all the evidence. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15344	I thank the Minister of Justice. We have several corrections of incorrect allegations. First representative of Ivica Pancic, go ahead!
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15345	Thank you, Mr. President. It is incorrect for the minister to believe that guilt is being found in The Hague. I quote her statement from the 25th session of the Parliament held on 27 September 2002 when she asks the question "What if the battle with The Hague fails and I think the departure of eight Croatian defenders confirms it? And he says, "Well, I don't think we should do circuses, we shouldn't destabilize the country ourselves, but we just need to fill out every single one of our applications for The Hague and four million people to report to The Hague.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15346	Comrade Pancic, what the current minister said when she was a representative. You can't correct the incorrect allegations of someone who was an agent from a particular debate that was two, three years ago. You could have corrected the current one, and don't put me in a position to injure the Rules of Procedure. You can't, no MP can call for a correction of an incorrect allegation to correct the allegations of someone who, as an agent in an earlier council or any other co-operation, has spoken but now if he points out. Correction of the incorrect allegations by the esteemed representative, Josip Leko.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15347	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Gentlemen of the government! I must say that the change in HDZ's policy towards the Hague court has led Ms. Minister into a difficult position, so in her statement, the Minister of State found quite incorrectly and contradictoryly that at the beginning of the term of office the government had rerouted the co-operation to the legal area and the next sentence that the Prime Minister had written a letter to the Hague Court as if the Prime Minister had been President of the Court. Of course it's not, so it's an incorrect claim at the beginning of Madam Minister of Discrepancy with the government's behaviour. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15348	The next amendment is a respected representative of Sima Lucin.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15349	Thank you very much. There were more incorrect allegations, I'll only hold on to two. It is incorrect that the Croatian government has convinced the Hague court of the readiness of the Croatian judiciary to take over war crimes cases because, in fact, they would not be witnessing the opposite tendency that those accused and prosecuted in Croatia go to The Hague instead of being Mr. Norac, instead of having a reverse process. Another incorrect assumption is that something with guarantees is wrong because we are convinced from the government on several occasions that both Mr. Cermak and Mr. Markac will be home by Easter. Unfortunately, either the guarantees are wrong, or we received incorrect information from the government.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15350	Thank you. And finally, the correction of the incorrect allegations by the esteemed representative Ivo Banac.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15351	On several occasions, the Minister used a phrase of qualifications that is harmful to the interests of the Republic of Croatia. I think that the assumption is incorrect because in this way the country's country policy of the 1990s is being identified with the Croatian state that belongs to all its citizens and those who have never agreed with such a policy.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15352	Thank you. We're going to a club debate. Dear Representative Zlatko Tomcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15353	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would ask, since the subject is indeed such that there is something to be said, since you have allowed government representatives a little longer than the Rules of Procedure of a certain time to say that we agree for 20 minutes on behalf of clubs.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15354	Comrade Tomcic, I've shared the time that 20 minutes was spoken by the Prime Minister and 10 minutes by the Minister of Justice and it's within the 30 minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15355	It's not true, but good. I won't insist.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15356	Unfortunately, yes. On behalf of the IDS Club, Honorable Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15357	Your Honor, Mr. President, the Honorable Prime Minister, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Mr. Representatives! When I talk about these Hague indictments against General Markac, Cermak then it is not possible to follow those same charges separately from the indictments as the Prime Minister, the minister of justice against Mr Prlic, Petkovic, Praljko, Stojic, Coric, Pushic, if for nothing else because they have a hard time burdening the former government of the Republic of Croatia at the head of the late President Franjo Tudjman. And those who claim that in BiH indictments are charged with other state's citizens and that it is not a Croatian problem, it absolutely does not stand. Finally, General Petkovic was at the top of the command chain of the Republic of Croatia or the military. Secondly, it is no longer possible to discuss charges against General Markac and Cermak, not to mention so-called. Knin tape on which General Gotovina called military commanders on the ground on 6.8.1995. The first thing I'm saying is, that condition on the day of 6.8.1995 was a sweet mother according to what happened after 8. 8. 95th and the end of Storms, predators, arsons, liquidations were only then given the right of citizenship. But it's important to mention two things and all in the context of Carla del Ponte's indictment against Gotovina. First, it's known to be six. 8. 95. Cash was in Bosnia and not anymore in Croatia. And two, after eight. The 8th power was taken over by the police, or by the civilian administration, and so many people should not be packed or by Gotovina. True, this tape where Gotovina insults warlords with the words barbarians and the like, which are paid for by war prey. First, it puts General Cermak in an impossible position, but secondly, it deals military intelligence miles with politicians who may, like Pontius Pilate, wash their hands to protect themselves and the victims and soldiers who served them faithfully. And it's a hypocrisis of the Croatian moment, together in the war, together in peace, but in The Hague they're just soldiers, making marginals while the real inspirers are somewhere else. However, I have the impression that these tapes are being pushed into The Hague by some former officials, and I'm afraid of that. Because we wouldn't happen to have our president, Mr. Shakespeare in the New List, to say that he and the late President Tudjman would advise him to defend himself in The Hague. It is not disputed to paraphrasise Mr. Sanader, Croatia was as he said just before the victim of aggression, we all point out. Croatia had a legitimate right to defend itself, which we also know could be defended. I like to say Croatian tanks did not set off from Vukovar the way of Belgrade or Novi Sad but also the troops of the BiH army did not go the way of Croatia. And I can also say that those who want to see what it looked like to destroy Croatia should go to Vukovar, bow down to that town, the sacrifice they gave for Croatian sovereignty. But also those who want to see what he looked like to a rival HVO and the army of BIH should see East Mostar. It's also not a controversial storm, it was absolutely legitimate. And not once did I say, the rebellion of the instrumented Serb population by Slobodan Milosevic would not tolerate any of the most liberal countries, let's say, Switzerland from which Carla Del Ponte comes. And there can be no talk of criminal entanglement as Carl Del Ponte is qualified, but it would be interesting to read some testimonies, such as Mr. Sarinic, which mentions the agreements between Tudjman and perhaps also him as a mediator with Milosevic on the preventive resettlement of the population. As blasphemous as it may be, God forbid such arrangements were made before the Storm, because there would be blood on that space to the knee. It is not disputed, Croatia would win that battle. The province had 60,000 soldiers, Croatia 180 thousand but these stores insult debt returns but also sober up like. Not so long ago, Stipetic's interview at Jez that Posavina's motorcycle fell. Or that much was motivated by an attempt to lay cards in the BiH between the Croatian and Serbian sides. Quoting phonograms from the presidential halls, or phonograms from these assembly sessions about borders, I don't know Banska hrvatska etc., I won't do it, it doesn't make sense, no one even wonders from these accusations that are before us and that we probably all downloaded again. Those who are surprised may be Croatian politicians making efforts to fake the truth and make the position in Croatia more difficult. I am also convinced that our citizens today some other things such as life put first. It is not disputed, Croatia has been the victim of brutal aggression and there is no relitisation. Croatia today is at 90% of gross social product from the 1990s. In the 1990s we were alparas of Slovenia, today Slovenia is 15 years ahead of Croatia. The war was brought before the 15 thousand victims mentioned, still searching for about 1200, 1300 missing. The Croats were expelled from Bosnia and Herzegovina's works, Bishop Komarica says in the entire Republika Srpska 12 thousand Catholics and in 220 as many as before the war, and that is evil. The budget of the Republic of Croatia will be permanently charged with billions of kuna due to disabled people or the need for reconstruction and after it has been restored, so to speak, Croatian property is coming in line and must also come to those unsolicited Serbian houses and there were almost 20 thousand of them. And why did that happen after Storm? Why didn't it stop, and I'm saying it could have been?- I'm sorry. It could have gotten out of control and burned down 100, 200, 300, but not 20,000 buildings. It couldn't have just been without the system as they told me those days, you can protect them from these buildings, but as they forced us not to come back, we're gonna burn down their buildings so they don't come back. I said, there were 180 thousand soldiers in that area, and if it were wanted, that arson could have been prevented. However, that is what I am saying, The Hague does not judge Croatia. Croatia is not on the defendant's bench. The Hague also does not question the Homeland War and Croatia's defence rights. The Hague does not question Croatian statehood or the historical drive of the Croatian people to independence. Also, there does not seem to be some balance between Croatia and Serbia, finally from Serbia to The Hague, the entire former government headed by Milosevic or Tinovic, Seselj, regardless of what we know to be the late President Tudjman in The Hague. Croatia has no other valley to co-operate with The Hague. And what this government is doing right now, to quote Carla Del Ponte, is really leading one intelligent policy, actually the only possible one. Even in the case of a twist, in the case of a crazy man. And don't let God refuse to cooperate, so we'd lose our future as a country. At the end of last year, this country owed about $23.7 billion, today an external debt of about $25 billion. Massive burdens come in the second half of this year on the charge. The absence of only one credit tranche would have submerged Croatia but literally ruined it and no one was given the mandate nor was the government of Mr. Sanader. I would also dare say, he clicked on it perhaps bravely that for such a policy of co-operation with the Hague run by this government, the question of whether she was capable of the former. Em would have divided within the government, em would have mobilized the public in a god-awful anti-Croatian, treasonous, cowardly policy. Imagine what HDZ would have done in the opposition to Racan if he had gotten these charges, which are worse on the list than those who arrived for General Gotovina. Let us remember Split, let us remember the Sabre debates, those proposals on the debate before the United Nations, etc., and God forbid, and I am holding Carla Del Ponte in mind that such charges have arrived to the former government. So we'd go from rallying to rallying. What HDZ can do to The Hague obviously could not, under quotes, "ex-government" and that's true. And so let the HDZ free us from the burden of The Hague, as some of their unsuspecting ones have led the Haag way along that pensioner's path, they've taken our debt, they'll pay us back. Let's remember Split, let's remember the Bobette case. I say it was the hardest moment in the term of the former government. I claim that Friday, the Parliament prevented the mass from reacting spontaneously. That Friday as if we'd all been afraid of what might happen, then out, more precisely the time we've given each other since about four days, everything's back in order. Even President Mesic, who reacted correctly, did not react on the same day, but on Wednesday, the parliament did not understand, nor did many diplomats, then I hold it correctly. Croatia is cooperating, perhaps with a heavy heart but is aware that there is simply nowhere to go. And we really don't have anywhere, we're not America, we're not the UK that we're allowed to do what they're allowed to do, for example. in Iraq, etc. Look at what happened after the candidacy, and it was a great move for everyone who worked on it happening with Croatia's entry into the NATO Pact. So Croatia will enter the European Community rather than NATO. Why? Because apparently that regional approach still exists in the heads of the big ones. It's simply on the trail of understanding their space. Because here I will quote Margaret Thacher who literally said: “The world was for Yugoslavia.” She says: “Our republics or yours are like unwanted children. They had to be clearly recognized, but if it did not coincide with the fall of the Berlin Wall, the collapse of the Soviet Union would have been different."But precisely because it was known about the position of the world, but even that in my view may not be important because of the fact that it should not have acted like some in Croatia in Bosnia, Croatia should not have burdened itself on its back that we, which we will long, still carry. I told Croatia no one should have taken away the future. I said Croatia to 90% of the 1990 gross social product, but neither Bosnia and Herzegovina should anyone threaten a future that was not 50% of the 1990 gross social product. Croatia has applied for damages against Belgrade. There will be little use for that, as I do not believe that Sarajevo could be against Zagreb. Finally, our economies would not endure it, and such a qualification does not lead to the qualification of the conflict on the ground of ex Yugoslavia as a civil war because it simply does not correspond to the truth and the one who would say so would be a historic counterfeiter as it is not possible to equalise the role of Croatia and the SR Yugoslavia in Bosnia whose fate will again be determined by some new Dayton and if this is in the interest of strengthening that state as a community. Dear gentlemen, and in the context of charges against Praljko, Prlic, Petkovic and so on, and you know that I did not vote in favour of the Homeland War Declaration, the only one from the coalition at the time, she unfortunately when Bosnia and Herzegovina did not respond to the facts by me. It's no problem if the Dalmatian Zagora fought back at Kupres, so there was 126. Blue Dombrane regiment. It is not a problem that Dubrovnik had to simply defend itself in the hinterland of Bosnia and Herzegovina, but the disputed agreements in Karadjordjevo, the formation of the phantom Herceg-Bosnia, an unnecessary conflict with Muslims, trade in territory, territory. Sarinic also mentions Konavle, an attempt to change Bosnia's ethnic picture and so on. Let's get this straight. Absolutely no collective guilt. There may be some collective shame, but not collective guilt. I will not mention phrases as identifying individual responsibility, removing collective guilt, and so on and so forth, clear to all the nations. It is mentioned that Carla Del Ponte will also invite Haag to Ejup Ganic and so on. For the end, everyone would like to see the ex-Yugoslavia, as the liberals would say, in the Czech and Slovak countries, however, Croatia and the countries of ex-Yugoslavia had the misfortune that simple happiness did not want us. Today might be different. In 1991, 1992, it was just like that. The war couldn't have been avoided. There, among other things, they cooked as big as they later stopped him. Baker, I don't know, allowed the army to restore borders in Slovenia and the spirit that was being prepared by Gazimestan was simply released from the bottle. I'm afraid that's what I'm trying to say, the black and white painting is no longer going through. We in the country, not outside the country, and he's right, I'll quote him, Mr. Cicak, who wrote somewhere: "The political topics of the prosecution will not be able to defend ourselves with our political themes or thesis." And God forbid these charges are the last charges. I doubt that. God forbid governments in Belgrade, Zagreb, Sarajevo continue to pave the way for our economies. Let us use these changes in Belgrade and God forbid we ever have another war year again. I don't know if this debate has been extorted or not. Maybe it wasn't necessary, but I'm just repeating the prosecution's political issues if there were, we're not going to bring down our political thesis and I agree that the government has to do everything for Cermak, Markac, to start the trial at large, to help families, no matter what some are rich and measured by tens of millions of dollars. And all in all, the IDS suggests that no conclusions should be adopted after this, but that it should simply be done as the Constitutional Law requires.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15358	Eleven rectifications of incorrect allegations. I ask the MPs who have now volunteered for corrections of incorrect allegations to stick strictly to the Rules of Procedure and not to enter the controversy but to, and to dispute, but to quote and state which incorrect allegations are corrected. And once, I guess you should know that you can't answer,
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15359	I know exactly how the Rules of Procedure reads. It's not a problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15360	What? Well, at least read that Rules of Procedure once. First respected representative, Anto Djapic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15361	Mr. President, there were elements for a plate of injuries to the Rules of Procedure, and I thought you'd react sooner, but good. Two, I could make it right, but there are two allegations that need to be particularly highlighted. A colleague of Cain's in Croatia has never been granted the right of citizenship by arson and robbery. We did not give this right to the citizens when they attacked Croatia, but we fought against their arson and robbery, and the excesses that occurred after the “Storm” were processed in hundreds of cases, so that I do not tell thousands of cases of which there are also a white book that has been presented to the Hague prosecution and that you could and should know when you would be well-intentioned when we discuss this. And another quote that needs to be corrected. There was no trade in the bright operation “Storm” between Tudjman and Milosevic, but was a bright professional military operation which, due to its professionality, prevented major civilian victims. And that's the truth about it, not your insinuations, which have been here in the Croatian Parliament for years to bring down the dignity and the Parliament itself of fellow Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15362	Dear Representative Luka Bebić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15363	From a series of inaccuracies, I'll fix one. Says Mr. Cain: "The tanks from Bosnia and Herzegovina did not go to Croatia." The tanks went to Croatia from Belgrade or Serbia, but also from Bosnia and Herzegovina. According to Mostar, Listica, Kupres i.e. to the Croats of Bosnia and Herzegovina. In 1992 and 1993, they did not start tanks on Croatia from Bosnia and Herzegovina but rather rivers, dozens and hundreds of thousands of refugees and exiles from the Croats and Bosniaks, and Bosniaks. So they did not go to Serbia to save themselves but to go to Croatia, to Croatian hotels and other destinations to save lives. And the Croatian state took them in and hosted them and helped as much as it could in those times to defend its homeland and its own. That's what that means. It's not like the tanks aren't on, they're on their way. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15364	The next amendment is a respected representative, Bagaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15365	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, dear Damier. East Mostar because we're... The eastern Mostar was not torn down by the HVO, and especially by the HVO. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] East Mostar is down and burned. First, by Serbs who held him longer in occupation than the ongoing conflict between the army and the HVO. And then it was further destroyed by the conflict of Croats and Muslims, and what you speak of, and then it was destroyed by both the western and the eastern. And what you're talking about is the battlefield you saw down there. That's right. ... [[/The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15366	Next correction by the respected representative Zivko Nenadić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15367	Correcting, correcting the incorrect quote that my colleague Cain said, quote: "In The Hague, only soldiers are normally marginals." In The Hague, they are no marginalists, although they are Croatian volunteers and defenders, thanks to whom we are sitting here and who have freed our country and have great merit for the outcome of the war. And if the Croatian generals are marginal, I wonder who Mr. Cain was expecting in The Hague. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15368	Dear representative Katarina Fuček next correction of the following allegation.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15369	Corrected by fellow Djapic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15370	Next respected representative of Ante Markov.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15371	counterpart Cain said The Hague and Hague politics do not judge Croatia. That's not true. I will say as it says in Article 11: During and after Operation "Storm" and all the time covered by it, Ivan Cermak and Mladen Markac participated with others including Ante Gotovina and President Franjo Tudjman in a joint criminal enterprise whose common goal was the forced and permanent removal of the Serb population from the Krajina region. I'm sorry if Croatia is not tried here and in this paragraph, and in which case it is tried.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15372	Next respected representative Krešimir Cosic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15373	I don't think it's too much to repeat, if I have to, a hundred times. I quote Mr. Cain: The troops of Bosnia and Herzegovina were not headed towards Croatia but vice versa, he meant the Croatian HV from the Republic to Bosnia and Herzegovina. That's incorrect. It is true that JNA started in 1991 with its technique, tanks, planes towards Neum, Ravna, Dubrovnik, Mokošica, Karlovac, Brod and County and military logic forced us to defend ourselves even when we crossed the territory of the Republic of Croatia because the active defence, military logic forced the soldier to take a position where he could successfully defend not only himself and his troops but also cities and people and hundreds of thousands of them behind those lines. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15374	Next respected representative Ivo Loncar.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15375	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. To me, dear and lovable Damir Cain is once again consistent with his inconsistency. I quote: 20,000 burned-down Serbian houses after the Storm. This dangerous Goebbels lie has been going on for a long and long time. Who counted those burned houses apart from former parliamentary representative Milan Djukic and several professional Democrats from HHO. Then if Mr Damir Cain had been so consistent, I would have asked him why he had not asked more than 800 innocent Croats killed in the UNP zones and who was responsible for it. I expected it from counterpart Cain as a Croatian citizen to answer that question as well as as prominent as he says of himself as an Istrian Croat. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15376	Next correction by the respected representative of Sima Lucin.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15377	Thank you very much. It is incorrect to say that Croatia is forced to co-operate with The Hague court. At least she wasn't forced past the government, and I want to believe she wasn't this one either. I think it is in the interest of the Croatian dignitaries of the Homeland War that all possible war crimes are being prosecuted.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15378	Next respected representative Emil Tomljanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15379	Mr. President, I would like to correct only one in a number of incorrect allegations when Mr. MP said, quote: The Homeland War Declaration does not match the facts of the event in Bosnia and Herzegovina. I do not enter into the reasons for his non-voting for the end itself, therefore for the declaration, but by the nature of the act itself and by what it means it is in terms of the fact that the substrate therefore responds to what has happened both in the Republic of Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15380	Next respected representative Franjo Arabovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15381	... [[You can't hear the speaker.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15382	And respected representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15383	... I will correct the incorrect quote of my colleague Caine, who claimed that Croatia should not have burdened itself and put the future at risk because of Bosnia. [[Specially enabled.]] I'll remind you that you incorrectly stated that we shouldn't have. And I will remind you that among the state agreements between the Republic of Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina that have given full legitimacy to the support given by the Republic of Croatia to Bosnia and Herzegovina is the friendship and co-operation agreement from 21 July 92 and the Split Agreement of 22 July 95 talk about the necessary and necessary assistance to the Croatian people in Bosnia and Herzegovina. That you didn't get involved in that help.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15384	Thank you very much. We'll continue the session at 15.00 hours. The first is a respected representative on behalf of the HSP club Ante Djapic. Ladies and gentlemen, we will proceed with the session. I ask the honourable representative, Antu Djapic, to take a word on behalf of the HSP's Club of Representatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15386	Dear Mr. President, Madam Minister and Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian party's club of rights gives great importance to the discussion of Croatia's relations with The Hague court. I have no intention, speaking on behalf of the club, to remind myself of the political views and statements he has made for the past seven years, almost 8, since the Constitutional Law on Cooperation with the Hague Court was passed, but I would still like to remind you just to continue speaking on a sentence of the current President of the Croatian Parliament, back in 96, when we adopted the Constitutional Law. Then the President of the Parliament, today, Mr Shex said, this is the constitutional law that we have proposed, to adopt the Criminal Court because we hold that we will be the court of justice, that there will be a court to sanction those who have committed crimes against the Croatian people, etc., etc. With what he said, if it ever happens that the Hague Court ceases to be a legal instrument in the fight for justice and criminal punishment then there are always opportunities for Croatia to take those moves under certain circumstances, if there is a threat to the fundamental values on which we created the Croatian state. I convinced myself, but that was about the speech of the President of the Croatian Parliament. Just today, almost 8 years after that adoption of the Constitutional Law, we have come to a situation where the time of passage behind us, the times behind us are fierce, the headquarters, I don't know, fierce actions of many defense associations, etc. But that doesn't make the situation any less complicated. I'd say it's no less dangerous, and I think we just got close to the circumstances he was talking about at the time today's President of the Croatian Parliament. Because the Hague indictments that arrived in Croatia are precisely on the trail of these circumstances. The Croatian Prime Minister spoke in his opening speech that the Croatian co-operation with the Criminal Court was unquestionable, and the representative before me said that Croatia has no alternative at all and with some other disastrous assessments. We as a party are legalists and legitimateists. We voted against the Constitutional Law 8 years ago because we thought that it would emerge from the legal institute into an instrument of political coercion towards the Croatian state, that it would humanise Croatian politics, the Croatian Army. We voted against, but as legalists and legislators we can today agree with the assessment that Croatia does not have much room for manoeuvre and that in the final year of the indictment from The Hague, Croatia should co-operate with The Hague court, but can never be said in politics, in our understanding of politics, that something is unquestionable and that there is no alternative. For the people, sovereign law is the strongest weapon, as Ante Starcevic spoke, who said that clean work is not afraid of light and precisely on that trail when, if there were no alternative and if certain things were unquestionable, then even the first Croatian president 14 years ago would not have chosen an alternative that meant war at the time, but at the head of the Croatian people went into the creation of the Croatian state. On this very trail we want to warn that silence is never good when it comes to turning points in Croatian key moments. Because every time there was silence, it turned out that silence wasn't always gold. There is also Croatia... that silence is gold, but in politics when it must be spoken of the truth then truth is the strongest weapon and must never run away from it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I will call again on Dr Antu Starcevic who said that it was always time for the truth and that the people should never be afraid and despised to tell the truth about the moment they were in. We hold this debate almost a few months after it was to be held. But it's not too late today, either. It is not too late today exactly because it will be increasingly possible to start the process against Croatian generals who are in The Hague today. And what we will yet be interested in in this process and after the process, it is a real danger that some of the verdicts, some of the charges, will rise to a verdict that will practically hit the very foundations of the Croatian state. Because we have to point out for the truth, regardless of what they're looking at today, I would say, and all the ambassadors of the European Union here in Croatia, that cooperation has two directions. Therefore, co-operation with the Hague Court should also mean the possibility of speaking about certain things that we cannot even agree with, which is the fact that the multiannual strategy of the Hague Court of Prosecutors is noticeable in particular in the indictments and convictions of General Tihomir Blaskić, Daria Kordić, Mary Cerkez and others, that the Croatian President, the restorer of the independent, sovereign, internationally recognised democratic Croatian state, Dr Franjo Tudjman directly blames the criminal enterprise, under quotes, of course the creation of so-called. Great Croatia and its ethnic cleansing from all non-Croatian population received final confirmation in the latest indictments and against six Croats from Bosnia and Herzegovina. Similarly, the Hague Prosecutor's Office directly accused Dr Tudjman of the criminal enterprise of ethical cleansing of tens of thousands of Serbs from Croatia. In charges against Croatian Army General Ante Gotovina, Ivan Cermak and Mladen Markac. These truly frightening accusations are absolutely political and humanely unacceptable for everyone, for us, for members of the Croatian Party's Club of Rights certainly. And that's the fact that you can't run from today in this debate. Because we must be aware of the fact that the other frightening political indictments mentioned are morbid and ethnically extremely dubious and these are post-mortem charges against the first Croatian president, the restorer of the Croatian state and the Supreme of the Croatian Army, Dr Franjo Tuđman, who is charged with the most serious war crimes. It is not only a question of international legal legality, the legitimacy of the famous Croatian Army of Homeland War, but also of legality, the legitimacy of all processes of building the Republic of Croatia as an independent, sovereign, internationally recognised democratic state. What do I want to say about this? If there were to be a later speech from our representatives, the basis of two fictions from the equality of guilt and criminal enterprise would have led to such an indictment, i.e. a notion of commanding responsibility which in this way, I would say, attacked the Homeland War. What can you do? I, I said, have no intention of moving who did what he did and said because the time is a witness and the public is a witness of what has happened in Croatia for the last 7, 8 years because we are not having a debate because I would convince the Prime Minister or him, whether you or us or the Croatian public about what has been going on in Croatia, but to look for models and ways to ensure that all Croatian politics and science and all social activities are opposed to those who have to, at least they have to prove and show what happened in the process of creating the Croatian state. It is a very difficult job, because we unfortunately have in the Croatian Parliament and the representative and MPs who were able to speak on the trail of these charges from the fact that here at this meeting of the Assembly, the fact was conducted in the early 1990s in Croatia by the ethnic cleansing of Serbs in Croatia, we have been here rarely witnesses and statements that the Croatian aggressor to Bosnia and Herzegovina, so... infringements of the Declaration of the Homeland War which was almost plebicitarianly adopted in the Croatian Parliament. Therefore, in 97 years after the Constitutional Law was adopted on cooperation with the Criminal Court in The Hague for the field of ex-Yugoslavia and Rwanda, so the official name was then the court, we were aware of what would happen and knowing that this court was done for both President Tudjman, and Gojko Šuška and Janko Bobetka and Ante Gotovina we had already proposed the Law on the Croatian Memorial Centre, that the Croatian people at that time had collected documents, films, videos, orders, documents to prove and confirm that the Croatian people had not implemented aggression on Bosnia and Herzegovina, that the Croatian people at that time had taken care of half a million Muslims, Bosniaks in Croatia, while in Bosnia and Herzegovina the war in which the most few people were treated as being agresoric, we had been unable to do so on the wrong side of the people, so that we had to be able to be able to do so much in the wrongly, so that they would be able to be able to do so much in the Republic, so that they would be able to be able to do so in the wrongly to do the wrongly, because of all of all of the others, so that they would be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to go to do to do to do to do to do the others to do the others, and to do the right by the right by the right by the right by the right of the right of the right of the right of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state. That's why I'm more than accusing who was saying what he was doing, radio interested in why the government didn't do any more after the Hague indictments arrived. We can understand that part of the pragmatism was aimed at some protection of the interests of the two Croatian Generals Markac and Cermak and these six who later left but who were not used until the end of the months, the Prime Minister pointed out that the job of the letter to the President of the Court was but what were the results, the activities that the Croatian government had since the coming of the indictments and the departure of Croatian generals to The Hague. Marker and Cermak are still in The Hague. General Norac prepares for his trip to The Hague, with an uncertain outcome, has assurances that he will only give a statement and will return, that there will be a trial in Croatia. The president of The Hague court said, at least it was transferred to part of the Croatian media, that the Croatian judiciary is not credible, and what is the latest ban on the entry of several Croatian citizens into the EU countries. So forgive the government's gentlemen, which is happening, even some media have reported that this list of people who cannot leave Croatia in the European Union is coordinated, so I expect the government's statement about it to be in line with the Government of the Republic of Croatia. It is also about an active General of the Croatian Army to our fellow parliamentary representative who sent me as the chairman of the Committee a play that I will somehow have to act as chairman of the Committee and members of the Committee. There are people against whom at least some do not conduct any investigative actions, challenge the fundamental human right of movement in other countries, without them committing a criminal offence under the last regulations of these countries and also against the Croatian state, that is something that is unacceptable, because today five, tomorrow they can be my turn for their political freedoms in terms of relations with The Hague, I have the right to a different view, a different opinion. The day after tomorrow may also be President Ivo Sanader because of his speech on the Split Riviera a few years ago, may be any of us, may be because tomorrow he has a different view of how the Hague Prosecutor's Office works, he is forbidden to enter as a transit passenger into the European Union. This means he cannot travel to America via Frankfurt or I don't know what not, and when Croatia enters the European Union, it won't be fast, which if he enters what we will then do with people who are prevented from moving around the European Union, then they will only be able to move in the Croatian Parliament or what I don't know. So, I'm not talking about us being humiliated in many other ways because of the Homeland War. I want to remind you that I don't know if the situation has changed that Minister Hebrang couldn't go to some countries because he didn't want to fill out any forms that asked for where you were directly in the war, where you were, who your commander was, etc. Therefore, we are interested that the Government and this direction and the question makes this kind of behaviour towards Croatia I would say oppose. Therefore, we must resist double standards. The charges against six Croats from BH and the attack on President Tudjman who goes in this direction more than vulgarly and rudely goes in the direction that Herceg Bosna was a criminal organization that... Tudjman with his party, etc., etc. And at the same time in BH, Republika Srpska, so let the policy of double standards, it's a matter of politics, it's not a matter of law. So it would be just that someone responsible for the death of some civilians answers I'm the first to have someone answer for it. But when it comes out of the legal framework... the policy area must then react much more sharply, I would say much more resolutely, and in this direction of government that if it is working on this decisively so far we think it is not enough, we need to be clearer, more resolute, strengthen the work of this advice that was formally formed yesterday should speed up the adoption of this Law on the Croatian Memorial Centre, this should be teamed up, money should be broken, there should be some work, because we expect the arresters in The Hague to have the Croatian state do the maximum possible to really defend the truth about the Homeland War. Not because we're not...a pair of exceptions that have some of their ideas and fiction that happened from 90 to 95, but because of those that we have to convince in Croatia what happened from the data that was brought here that the UNPA zone was killed by 800 Croats and there are a whole series of these things that must be dealt with systematically strongly, and the Parliament as a political body must give its position and its judgment on charges, some conclusions, something similar. I see it's red, so I'll continue the debate for 10 minutes later. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15387	Thank you very much. The Prime Minister Dr. Ivo Sanader.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15388	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to answer very clearly to these several questions on behalf of the Government, which was asked by MP Djapic, that the government is very clear, without any environment, and without any fences or parentheses that the government has done everything it could in these few months with regard to these two indictments, against Generals Cermak and Markac and against a group of 6. I repeat once again, once again, when the indictments arrived and in one case and in another, they all came even before during the announcements in the press, they came and asked for talks with individual ministers and asked for only one thing to enable us without any procedural games that we have, we exercise our right to help us, logistically, legally and in any other way we want to defend ourselves there, that was their point of view. We have done everything on our part, from logistics legal aid to guarantees that we have given to the Hague court on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Croatia with a request that their lawyers support the request to defend themselves from freedom and that Croatia as a state guarantees that they will be there and will respond to any call during the process. So, at the same time, there are two of my letters. One March 6th, one April 6th. So, first after the indictment against General Cermak and Markac. And secondly, after the indictment against the six, in which I declare to the President of the Court that we will not accept certain qualifications in the indictment, means when it comes to association with the criminal group for ethnic cleansing of Serbs from Croatia or when it comes to Bosnia and Herzegovina and that Croatia will seek its right to intervene in the court, to engage in the process and to make our views supported by evidence and arguments about it. The president of the court responded to both letters, to accept such a role Croatia played. Now you're saying, we could've done more. What could we have done more until the process began? When the process begins, then we will do everything in our power. Until then, we've done everything. We even talked to you that this debate, as you yourself said, I thank you for your insight, on behalf of those who sit in The Hague. Because we have to do everything to, a) defend the truth about the Homeland War. And b) to enable these people to defend themselves from freedom. As has been possible for Adamia, who could sit in The Hague for three years, but here in Croatia. Therefore, everything in our power we have done, there are letters of mine not written as letters of Ivo Sanader, but as letters of the Croatian Prime Minister who is the official document in The Hague, which clearly states that we do not accept these qualifications in the indictment and that Croatia in the process, not now, because there is no reason now, there is no reason, no process has begun and we cannot get involved in a process that has not yet begun. So we're waiting for the process to begin. The council has been appointed, there is nothing too late with the appointment of advice, in the advice of the people around which there is, I would say a broad consensus that they are experts, that experts are among them as I have said, and I especially thank him also with the Assembly speakers, Professor Damascus from America, means people who will prepare themselves, and when will the process begin? The Adamia has not started yet, three years of preparation, and the 2001 indictment. So these two generals plus six, we don't know when they'll start. So the advice has plenty of time to prepare for Croatia to be involved as a friend of the court. Also this museum documentation centre, where you've worked a lot, I'm giving you credit. and could be founded before. Why not? Let's let it go now. Let's start it now, or it was established by the government's decision, we propose to the Parliament if the President of the Parliament and the Rules of Procedure allow it may be as far as we are concerned at the next session, which is scheduled for next week's debate, and that law may be discussed by an urgent procedure, we are prepared. It is only one thing to change our consciousness in Croatia. and I appeal from this pay phone to those who have private archives, as we know there are in Croatia, to give them up to the state, because they didn't even, even against the law you have these archives, have parts of these archives at home. So, nothing's too late, I think we've done everything. I am fully, with full responsibility behind these words. We've done everything, and they're testifying to us, and we don't need to say it here, especially right now, but those who are particularly concerned, they've given us full support. And for this one, as far as these five Croatian citizens are concerned. I'll say one thing. We as a sovereign state and any other sovereign state have the right to make a decision, so the European Union has the right to decide which persons are not desirable. It's an institute called the persona non grata, which is known in international practice. We have nothing to do with it. But I'll also tell you one thing. You asked me what we could do to make tomorrow not you, me, someone third, fifth, eighth, etc., for political reasons. We can do exactly what we are doing, which is to strengthen Croatia's international position. And that's why we said that by entering Croatia's candidate status, our international position has changed significantly. 'Cause now we're gonna be at the table talking about us, and we're not gonna be outside the hall, outside the door, waiting for what someone's gonna say inside. And tomorrow, when we become a full member of the European Union, we will be at that table to decide, and we will talk about it. My answer to your question, what we can do is - strengthen Croatia's international position, to be an entity, not an object of international policy.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15389	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, a respected representative of the famous Letica.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15390	I don't think the Prime Minister correctly assessed the character of the assistance the Croatian government has given the defendants. Namely, there it appeared in the Assembly General Mladen Markac could say he was under deep stress and said that at the level of political will he had received help. However, in a technically operational sense, the situation is catastrophic, that they told him what documents do you need? - and they brought him in in front of 15, 20, 100 thousand documents, and he says, "That was terrible." And that's why I welcome the Prime Minister's idea to create an information, documentation base as soon as possible, but without delay. So it's been three months since my letter to you and only now has Professor Darmash become a member of the council.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15391	And Antun Perushko, a respected representative, a correction to an incorrect assumption.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15392	Thank you, Mr. President, I am correcting the incorrect allegations of Prime Minister Sanader, in which he says this government has done everything for the General. That's incorrect. I agree that she did everything, but everything she could. The same ases did by Racan's government, only the difference today since then, with Mr. Sanader and the HDZ, he's held flames of speech on the Split Riviera, organized demonstrations and organized.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15393	My colleague, this is a controversy, you are perfectly aware of it, please stick to the Rules of Procedure. On behalf of the Club LIBRA, Honored Representative Jozo Radoš.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15394	Mr. President, Mr. President, Madam Vice-President, Vice-President, Minister and Minister in the Croatian Government, colleagues and colleagues. I don't think there's any need or reason why this agenda item has been delayed for so long. As we know, the ambition, or argument from the government, was that the debate could harm Mr Markac and Cermak, but they are still in The Hague. We haven't had a debate, and the generals are still in The Hague. Moreover, it is not an argument that they have asked not to argue, this is a large political matter and cannot be suspended for anyone's will by the political life of a country. Therefore, I think our debate was timely, and it should have been, when requested, so as not to harm the generals. Of course, the second question remains, is this debate useful? She certainly has to happen. The Croatian Parliament needs to debate not only on the basis of business provisions, but on the basis of the actual content of what is written in the indictments, if it is sought by MPs, but I say, the second question is what is the benefit of this debate. So there won't be any controversy here, I'll quote what's in one indictment and another. In the indictment of General Markac and Cermak, Generals Cermak and Markac, then General Gotovina and the President of the Republic of Croatia Franjo Tudjman joined together, had therefore a joint criminal enterprise, it is so clear. And the second indictment against six Croats from Bosnia and Herzegovina says that the state of Croatia and its authorities, armed forces and representatives participated in an international armed conflict against the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina and a partial occupation. This is the case in one and the other indictments, and I don't think that these qualifications of the prosecution which, by the way, have been reiterated have no understanding for our internal sensibilities of political, I don't think it can endanger the Republic of Croatia but it is about qualifications that the highest authorities of the state should say their position and, of course, among these highest bodies, the highest body is the Croatian Parliament and that is why it is absolutely necessary for the Croatian Parliament to say what it has to say. That need was, of course, manifested before. There's talk here about what happens if it becomes part of the verdict. Well, the same or worse qualifications were in the verdict against General Blaskovic, so we did not question the future of the Republic of Croatia, and I think, of course, with all the political weight that the court has for his prosecution and even his judgments are not such that they could question the existence or fundamental objectives of the existence of the Republic of Croatia. It's just not like that. But equally, this prosecution, of course, and neither this court, shows a drastic accusation or judgment against General Blaskovic, has too much sense for our political sensibilities and preferences, it is equally absolutely true. Therefore, I believe that the debate should have been the moment when the representatives' clubs in the Croatian Parliament were based on their business rights and on the basis of the importance of the topic they asked for the debate and that the debate should not have been delayed in any way. The second question is I repeat whether of these discussions that we have here is who knows which debate in the Croatian Parliament on this subject, whether they are of great benefit. In addition, the obligations of the Croatian Parliament and the debate must take place. I'm afraid not. I am afraid that today it is already shown that this is actually about presenting their own political views without the issue of the Homeland War and the issue of the Republic of Croatia's relationship with the war in Bosnia and Herzegovina in a way that will allow for the achievement of a common national attitude, that it will not deepen the differences that exist in the Croatian people and that with a fundamental positive attitude which is undeniable, we will actually turn to those issues that led to the Homeland War, which is therefore the life of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia and the prosperity of those citizens. In this way we always stay in one circle, in a circle of myths and, of course, as soon as you have one in their political life, in a free political life, we always face the opposite of the thread, and we are never really about to come up with a single attitude that is absolutely affirmative, it should not be emphasized in particular, and then we should turn to those issues that are actually causing the Homeland War, which is, of course, the creation of an independent Republic of Croatia and the quality of life of its citizens. Our declaration that we adopted in the Croatian Parliament a little less than four years ago in the preamble states that the declaration is brought to stop the radical politicization of the Homeland War and the worrying polarisation of Croatian society which can have far-reaching consequences. Of this declaration, which was brought here with 88 votes for and 4 votes against how many times we are here in the Croatian Parliament sometimes little and especially outside the Parliament, we have contributed to the fact that it is quite the opposite of what is written in the preamble of this declaration, how many times was the politicization of the Homeland War and how many times was the polarisation of the Croatian people on the issue of the Homeland War. And I think that even today's debate shows that we from these stereotypes of partial relations towards the Homeland War can unfortunately hardly come up at least challenge each other about believing that the Republic of Croatia is wanted and today has probably less than before but still has exclusive political views from which, of course, it seeks to gain influence in its work of the electoral body and does not pursue this goal, and this is, therefore, that this thing is finally defined to achieve this so-called, so-called consensus and then to turn to the questions that are the consequences of the Homeland War and the independence of the Republic of Croatia. With regard to the relationship of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the Hague Court, it is difficult to say something that could be some kind of strong criticism and which would be something new but for the sake of the case, it should be reiterated, for the sake of knowledge, however, that the approach in this regard was important for different people who today manage and lead the Republic of Croatia and in the time after 2000. The Prime Minister says he wrote letters to the President of the Court, disputing, of course, both charges were equally done by the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, Mr. Ivica Racan by writing to the chief prosecutor. Whether it's a letter from the prosecutor or the president of the court, I think it's legal finesse. Likewise, the Prime Minister says that in the event of the defence minister's request, Mr. Shusk's testimony was placed and succeeded. The government also fought for General Rahim Adami's freedom and for General Mirko Norac to be tried in the Republic of Croatia from 2000 to 2004. Large space for neither one or the other, nor for the third Croatian government but its problems will be smaller than the government's problems before 2000, past the government and these governments because, fortunately, the issue of The Hague is in its descending path but the maneuvering space is actually very, very narrowed and more than one and the other Croatian government has taken advantage of all the opportunities available and now just a few minutes ago for this speaker says Prime Minister Ivo Sanader. When the Prime Minister, Mr. Ivica Racan, said the same thing, we are doing everything possible, everything within our legal capabilities, respecting, of course, our political interests, and then Mr. Sanader as the president of the HDZ most powerful opposition party at that time said there are no other options, we should address the Security Council, we should address the International Court of Justice in The Hague and, as you know, the proposal for a law by the HDZ which in a different way asked the issue of co-operation with the Hague Court. Today, we have not heard from Mr. Prime Minister that he tried to protect the interests of the Republic of Croatia from the Security Council of the United Nations or the International Criminal Court. Similarly, he did not apply those provisions of the bill to change our relationship with The Hague court, and these were just to remind the Croatian judiciary that the indictments were manifested before the extradition took place, these bill proposals are dead. They exist in our archives, so it's very easy to see what HDZ really advocated at that time, then the strongest opposition party. And that's actually our question. Fortunately, and the issue is actually losing to the currents because I think that large political gains from the Hague tribunal will no longer be for anyone, and then the situation can no longer be turned back to being from a legal position that is of course good, if it is possible to separate it from the political one and it is not entirely to move back to a purely political position. Well, the same defense was the defense of the previous government. We are trying to co-operate with the Hague court under our legal obligations. Don't make a policy out of it, but that argument was not respected at the time. I hope that the third turn of this species in the Republic of Croatia will not come. Not because we've matured to that extent, so I guess we're more mature than we are 5 or 10 years ago, but because the issue of The Hague is already going to get into its own frames. And the intensity and political and real and cooperation will not be so great and will not question any fundamental and feelings or values on which the Republic of Croatia rests. Here at the end of my colleague and colleagues, I believe that the space for co-operation with the Hague tribunal is not great, however, it is a ratio of political power to be used by this Government of the Republic of Croatia to the extent possible. There could probably be some legal objections, but I'm not an expert in the area. But I repeat again and again, while it is such a living issue in the Croatian public, in our feelings, while there are such implications for our international position I appeal that with these questions when it comes back it does not run away from the Croatian Parliament. The Croatian Parliament as the most political body should, regardless of all these shortcomings that I have talked about these issues, still say very clearly what our political position is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15395	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect quote, the esteemed representative of Stjepan Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15396	Mr. President, a colleague of Rados made an incorrect claim when he said Croatia entered the war because of the creation of the Croatian state. That's not true! Croatia was created by a political struggle and has entered the war due to the threat, due to a threatening genocide by Serbia and the Yugoslav Army and that is the reason. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15397	We're going to a debate. The SDP representative club will be spoke by the first respected representative, Željka Antunović, and after that, in the time available, the respected representative Ivo Josipovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15398	Gentlemen of the Presidents, gentlemen of the Ministers, colleagues and colleagues. I remember very clearly the debates held over the past years on many occasions on charges brought against some Croatian citizens and on co-operation with The Hague Court. I remember the debate in the Parliament, and I remember even better the street debates, and I remember even better the street debates in which, unfortunately, some of you sitting here today participated, and if you didn't really participate, you clearly encouraged them and supported them. Of course, we are talking about street events that were a demonstration of political support, not a policy of cooperation, but a policy of non-cooperation with the Court of Justice in The Hague. And today in the House we have the same kind of debate, the same kind of debate but in some similar but at the same time in very different circumstances. The Prime Ministers speak with reason even now, cautioning that co-operation with the Court has no alternative and that both Croatia and the defendants can defend themselves and be freed only before the Hague Court. What is important is that there are no street protests and there are no threats to the destruction of the legal Croatian government. That's good. It is also important today to differ the speech of HDZ President who yesterday urged citizens to street protests and today warns us that this democratic debate here in the Assembly could damage the position of the accused Croats. And I have to admit, I've been thinking about it for a long time and I've been frustrated by the truth about the level of irresponsibility of the opposition at the time. And that's why I can't ask the president of the HDZ whether your policy at the time, verbally and actively supporting street policy, has damaged the interests of the defendants. The answer for me and all the reasonable Croats is clear, she's damaged, but then you gentlemen weren't the first to care. You who run the country today until yesterday were using the street trying to solve the issue of The Hague. It was politics, and now it's clear to everyone. It's clear to you, too, and it's going back and forth like a boomerang to you, but it's even worse that such a guilty policy at the time brings back the issue of The Hague and will bring it back for a long time and not only for that and for many other things but also for that, for all of us, for the whole country. And you knew then and now that the street didn't solve the issue of The Hague. Despite this, you've sown false illusions that before and now they've come to us all and come to collect. Your policy over the last few years has cost this country, cost it dearly. If two years ago you were doing and telling what you're saying now, the Croatian story, the Hague story would have been less traumatic for Croatia at least. All together, if we could have been together then, we could have been able to take down the inadmissible points of the indictment more easily. But you decided to do something else, taking down the then government. For the policy of co-operation with the Hague court that we have carried out in the interest of the state of suspects and defendants, you have called us traitors.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15399	My colleague Antunovic, counterpart Antunovic, I warn you, the topic is very precise and clear, is not the topic of the accusation you refer to the earlier main opposition party, where you accuse it of violently bringing down constitutional order and everything else. This is not the topic of the debate of condemnation and charges against the earlier opposition party, now ruling. Please hold on to that.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15400	Mr. President, I am talking about politics, the political aspects of the indictment and the circumstances in which Croatia and the accused must defend themselves before the Hague court.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15401	I made myself clear!
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15402	We were accused of being traitors in the interest of the state for the politics of cooperation with the Hague Court. If we were traitors.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15403	No one was accusing you. those whom you address as accusing you of, as traitors [[Intruder: They were accusing us!]] So you are now accusing the Croatian Democratic Community and its government of accusing you of being in opposition to treason. [[Who do I address?]] That's not true, it's an insult. It's slander. I'm warning you one last time, Mrs. Antunovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15404	If we didn't implement a policy that was national in the interests of the Republic of Croatia, and then you probably accused us of it, even though I wasn't just talking to HDZ, then what are those who continue this same policy today? Have you ever wondered? Have you ever asked yourself that question? There's no doubt about it for us in the SDP. Neither the former nor the present, nor any future authority, because of its co-operation with the Hague court, can be called in a negative context, neither for treason nor for action against Croatia's interest. Let me be even clearer. At no time are we in the SDP nor will we question HDZ, your policy of co-operation with the court in The Hague. On the contrary, we will support it, but we are asking the question of political hypocrisy that has led this country to unnecessary, deep and dangerous divisions over the past years. In charges against General Markac and Cermak, there is a qualification that no one can be satisfied with. If such qualifications were to remain and in judgments, they would cast a stain on the brilliant 90s victories. That would be unfair to all the dead, the wounded and all the defenders who freed this country. These qualifications are frustrating, but we can't and we won't, no matter what we do in this House, we'll only kill them here in court at The Hague. Unfortunately, this isn't the end of The Hague. The freshest case of General Norco confirms these words of mine. There will be many challenges, problems and frustrations for Croatia. The biggest challenge is whether Croatia is ready to take over The Hague processes and lead them to domestic justice. These processes could further frustrated the Croatian public, and it is a great responsibility for us politicians not to spread false illusions and not to build political careers on these processes. Unfortunately, it was too much. In the end, take my well-intentioned advice. In the last 6 months in which you have been protecting Croatia and the Croatian interest in the Hague, there have been individuals, fortunately only individuals and from the current authorities who tried to build their own political affirmation on the issues of The Hague. That's bad. Because let's remember, no one wins at The Hague, especially in the long run. But if you do not, or if we are not all responsible, Croatia can lose. And now allow the debate to continue a man who is certainly competent to talk about all aspects of the indictment in The Hague.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15405	Previously, we will resolve the corrections of incorrect allegations, counterpart Josipovic. They're 11. You have five and a half minutes after that. By the time we're done, you'll be better off, more comfortable with that. Frano Matušić, correction of the incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15406	Mr. President...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15407	Just one moment. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, colleague Kapraljevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15408	When the club takes over the debate, I think the time it has to argue that it can take advantage of it.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15409	My friend, you're wrong about this because, according to Article 209. The Rules of Procedure, as soon as a correction of the incorrect allegations has been requested, he goes. And there's no waiting. ... So don't, ladies and gentlemen, I suggest you take a look at article 209. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] The Rules of Procedure and that's what I'm gonna do. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the respected representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15410	Mr. President, counterpart Antunovic said that some of us, alluding to HDZ, encouraged street debates. That's completely incorrect. Yours, I won't say embarrassing, but an inappropriate attitude towards Croatian defenders has encouraged these street discussions. You also said that your policy continues. Falsely also because the Croatian Democratic Community has its own policy, for which it has received a mandate from Croatian voters, and God forbid we are implementing your policy of deficits, dubiosis, debts, etc. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15411	Correction of incorrect allegations, respected representative Zdenka Babić-Petricevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15412	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, I cannot quote in one minute everything that is said here. For example, you remember street debates and manifestations. Yesterday you used the street to knock down. No one has shot you down, you have been shot down by the Croatian people in the last elections, and if the people have the right to come to the street, they have the right to protest and to call on the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, Article 42. Everyone is granted the right to a public gathering, a peaceful protest in accordance with the Law. We haven't had that right in 50 years, now we're right.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15413	Correction of an incorrect alleged, respected representative Emil Tomljanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15414	Mr. President, I'd like to correct three or four incorrect allegations from an esteemed colleague, so I'd like to take a turn. She said the Croatian Democratic Union first called for street protests. Second, she was running street politics. Third, the glow of false illusions, all under one alleged false, which cost this country dearly and focused on the destruction of the legally elected government. And on this occasion, I will repeat that on November 23rd last year, as it is in parliamentary democracies, the people changed their votes and, of course, gave the role, an opportunity for HDZ to stand at the helm of this state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15415	Correction of the incorrect quote Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15416	Mr. President, I will correct the incorrect allegations of counterpart Antunovic, where she stated that the Croatian Democratic Community was an opposition, using the street to solve... Haaga. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And that's how she ran the wrong policy. This is an incorrect allegation because the Croatian Democratic Community has led politics here in the Parliament, and Croatian defenders have been provoked by your many insults, by calling and blaming the generals who can read your words in these indictments and by your coalition partners for aggression against Bosnia and Herzegovina have caused these violent protests, and so have the protests.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15417	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, respected representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15418	Mr. President, please allow the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament to be respected in this Croatian Assembly. The Rules of Procedure, provision of Article 209 have been violated. The rules of procedure, as often by HDZ, are used by the Institute to correct an incorrect quote in order to replicate it. Come, if there are arguments, let it be freely replicated by allowing the other side to respond to the replica, but precisely in fear of these arguments, i.e. the answer is often organised using the institute to correct the incorrect quote, and you, Mr. President, are completely deafening yourself.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15419	Not true, respected colleagues because MPs who had responded to the correction of incorrect allegations have so far been quoted by each and every one of them very precisely as saying the respected representative Antunovic, whom he holds incorrect and refuted. So it's not about any damage to the Rules of Procedure. Dear Representative Petar Mlinaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15420	Dear Mr. President, your honor, Mr. Prime Minister! Mrs. Antunovic said: "Your policy cost this country." And I would correct the incorrect assumption that the Croatian Democratic Community left 10 billion debt where it was and, where there was the creation of the state, where the exiles and all together, and they left it, they took over, they left 23 billion dollars in debt. They left a hole in the budget of six and a half billion kuna. It's a coalition government, leading to the collapse of this country.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15421	Honorable representative Bekavac, correction of an incorrect quote. Please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15422	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would correct the incorrect allegations of counterpart Antunovic who said that our HDZ policy had cost the Croatian people. Yes, Mrs Antunovic cost the Croatian people in the nines by creating the Croatian state, and these few months behind us cost the beginning of negotiations with the European Union and by determining candidate status for the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15423	Honored representative Krešimir Cosic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15424	Mr. President, Mrs. Antunovic said, I quote: "the street policy was aimed at destroying the legally elected government". That's Mrs. Antunovic's incorrect quote. It was just your perception. Maybe that's the perception you've had. Your problem was that you didn't know how to talk to Croatian defenders and you didn't have their trust. You insulted them before January 3rd, you insult them today, and that is not acceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15425	Dear Representative Zivko Nenadić, correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15426	Mr. President, colleague Antunovic said our HDZ policy cost this country dearly. Our policy, with the help of other state-run parties, individuals and particularly defenders, has created this country unlike any other policy that would never reach the Croatian state.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15427	Correction on. Honorable representative Maria Byte.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15428	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Repeated lies also require multiple corrections of allegations. So Mrs Antunovic said that the Croatian Democratic Union tried to bring down the government with street protests. I would say that the meetings that were legally organised were, which the Croatian Democratic Community did not organise and was not co-organizing but we were invited as you were invited to these support meetings, so you did not respond unlike yourself when you were co-organising the meetings while we were in power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15429	Dear Representative Krunoslav Markovnović. Correction of an incorrect allegation.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15430	Mr. President, the same in a series of lies again about that high price we paid. If my colleague meant The Hague, I don't think that's true. If she meant making a state, then it was true, but it was worth it, but when will you finally forgive us for having to destroy yours by creating this country? [[The intruders don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15431	Dear gentlemen, calm down, calm down. Don't get too excited. You don't have to get too excited. Like who sows so and reaps. Dear Representative, Vice-President of the House Luka Bebić. Correction of an incorrect allegation.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15432	Mrs. Antunovic twice said the HDZ president called for street protests. So not only the HDZ, but the president. He didn't call for street protests, but as invited, we came to some protests, and as Mrs. Byte said, you were invited. Well, I don't know why you haven't responded. Why do you think you haven't responded? You have not been convincing in your policy to defend the integrity of Croatian defenders. You have questioned the participation of many defenders in the Homeland War, endless audits of the disabled of the Homeland War that have never ended. So you were the ones who questioned many of those who participated in the Homeland War with your constant callings, saying that they were defenders of the lamb so that the prosciutto fell on their feet and so on and so on and so on and so on... who defend the Homeland War and the participation of many Croats and other citizens in the Homeland War. [[The speaker doesn't understand, it's off]] That's why you weren't convincing. That's the answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15433	Okay. Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, respected representative Josip Leko.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15434	I am sorry, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, that you did not give notice to a representative who owns the Croatian State within the meaning of Article 214 but that you still supported Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament with the sentence: "For whoever sows and reaps it." If I were not sorry for the citizens of Croatia who certainly do not benefit from this debate, I would have to tell you that you are acting as after World War II “We created it, we will do the same if the triba.” So not good for Croatian people, Croatian citizens Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15435	And Mr. Representative Leko. In her performance, counterpart Antunovic made a series of accusations against the Croatian Democratic Community of the Government by accusing the Croatian Democratic Community as a party, as a whole of organising street protests aimed at overthrowing the government and authorities, accusing it of jeopardising the constitutional order. We discussed this in our time when you suggested those, those famous conclusions that you wanted to accuse the Croatian Democratic Community of jeopardizing and destroying the constitutional order. And it is not a matter of any injury to the Rules of Procedure, nor of any injury to the Rules of Procedure, because the answers that followed with the correction of false allegations were proportionate to the allegations for which the MPs who challenged them pointed to their inaccuracy. I'm not going to be here from this place, and I can't and can't underestimate and assess whether or not it's incorrect, but I have a right and a duty to make it possible for a representative to hold someone's claim incorrect to allow them to express themselves and to assess that the assumption is incorrect. And you can't hurt the Rules of Procedure and I don't agree, I don't accept that it's a breach of the Rules of Procedure. If you think it's a breach of the Rules of Procedure, and you disagree with the President that this is what you have a business opportunity to do, which I call upon you to propose. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15436	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Article 214 also binds you to your colleague and to...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15437	You can't talk about it anymore, you can just suggest,
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15438	Yours, please, please, sir.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15439	If you don't agree with me
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15440	Sir,
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15441	to propose that the Constitutional Committee resolves this. That argument. The other polemics are gone.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15442	... [[The speaker is not on, you can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15443	There are no colleagues in other fields, Leko. You know that very well.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15444	... [[The speaker is not on, you can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15445	Comrade Leko, I know exactly as well as you do Rules of Procedure. A representative who wishes to speak about the breach of the Rules of Procedure should be given the floor as soon as requested. You've got the word, the president is obliged to give an explanation after your complaint. I gave an explanation. If the representative is not satisfied, he may only request the opinion of the Constitutional Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15446	Mr. President, that's exactly what I'm saying. Business law... yours. I pray that the assessment of the competent authority, so the working body of the Parliament, is whether the presentation and evaluation of the representatives you did not show yourself about, and you could and should have, is at least as obvious as Mrs Antunovic. You had a business opportunity so you could give Ms. Antunovic a warning, not commenting on her presentation, and you should have given a warning to your colleague. This was indeed an insult in the worst way in this Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15447	There's still a correction. So your objection goes and argues... to the Rules of Procedure Committee. [[You don't understand.]] Easy, I see. ... There is. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I see very well. I wrote it down in order to get word that it was a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Perfectly safe. Representative Nenad Stazic injured the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15448	Dear Mr. President, we have amended the Rules of Procedure, Article 209 and can correct the allegations in incorrect facts. So you can correct the incorrect fact of a quote. Mr. Luka Bebić did not correct the incorrect fact that we have evidence because the quote of February 14, 2001, Mr. Sanader, reads: "I publicly called on the party's membership to join the protests in Split and Osijek. Congratulations to the organizers." So everything Mrs. Antunovic said was a fact. Fact. Which is a fact and deserves Mr. Bebic's warning like anyone who abuses the correction of the wrong assumption to pollomise with the facts.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15449	My colleague Stazic is not concerned with the injury of the Rules of Procedure over and over again. If the representative makes his factual claim, the other representative shall, through the institute, challenge the correction of the incorrect allegations. You can't be an arbitration officer, and neither can I, who's going to say the representative, had no right because it's not about the truth, it's not about taking down a factual claim. That's what's true and what's a fact. ... There's no phonogram. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] The MP will make a statement which, in his opinion, is a fact of fact, others will say that is not true and that is the meaning of correcting the incorrect assumption and there is no breach of the Rules of Procedure but there is room for a future warning to those who, under the company's injury to the Rules of Procedure, report for something else. Honorable representative William Herman of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15450	The Rules of Procedure say that order at the session shall be provided by the President. I think this article of the Rules of Procedure is injured and I would just like to help you and tell you that you are a just president and that you try to lead the session in this way, here is the quote of this article 213. Let's try our rules of procedure that way. It's a session order, but it's also justice.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15451	You're encouraging me to express the strict measures, the warnings, the reminders by taking the words, the distance from the session. I don't intend to, it's Article 213. Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15452	The injury was again.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15453	Honorable representative of Slaven Letica, violation of the Rules of Procedure. ... Thank you very much. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Honorable representative of Slaven Letica.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15454	Well, let's go back to the gentleman before the show at the Prime Minister's office to discuss this matter with the state's position. You have indeed injured the Rules of Procedure of Article 214. It is unacceptable to accuse Zeljka Antunovic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia is not her country. I know Željko Antunović and I will not allow it here for both her and her family and her husband. Therefore, please protect us in the future more than your and our countries.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15455	I don't accept it as a violation of the Rules of Procedure, so it's about a court of law and an evaluation. Therefore, you can go to the Constitution Committee if you want. Here you go, pal Herman.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15456	Mr. President, an article 213 has indeed been injured, but without the intention of encouraging someone to express their firm measures, because you have realized that they should be spoken to the MPs. The session shall be held by the President, or the President of the Parliament, in this situation, and this may mean that you are eventually encouraged to give yourself a reminder.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15457	For the abuse of the Rules of Procedure, I give you a warning, Mr. Herman. Infringement of the Rules of Procedure respected representative Dragica Zgrebec. ... You're giving up. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Thank you. Honourable representative Zeljka Antunovic of the Rules of Procedure's violation.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15458	Mr. President, I'm giving up on the breach of the Rules of Procedure because I see that truth is the strongest weapon and it hurts the most.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15459	It's true, the truth hurts the most. It hurts the truth the most. Honorable representative Ivo Loncar of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15460	Mr. President, you injured article 209 and colleague Leko article 214 because you allowed him to speak as Mr. Luka Bebić spoke, he should be answered not by colleagues Markovinović. But it's very symptomatic in the last six months that we've been on my right all the time talking and going back to the past. Gentlemen of my right, Croatia is tired of your past, and also Croatia is tired of your 45-year-old democracy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15461	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, you can and can discuss this way, keep coming back to the past, compare someone's behavior with the past, with someone in the future. I ask the honourable representative Ivo Josipovic to take the floor in the follow-up debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15462	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, ministers. My debate is going to be a little different. In fact, I must conclude that both the public and the political scene in Croatia have since the draft court in 93 years, to date, evaluated. She has evolved, and I must say that without any malice, cynicism or indignation, I support those changes that went in a positive direction, which means that I support those changes on the political scene and on the public scene that go in order to accept those obligations that Croatia has under international law. I think that evolution also went to recognize that, with the undisputed fact that the Homeland War is something that is the foundation of the Croatian state, there is, unfortunately, the other part of the truth, which is that some crimes have been committed without need and that someone has to answer for it. Also visible is evolution from the stamping of the Hague Court as an unquestionable enemy of the Republic of Croatia, the path of its acceptance as an institution of international law that reflects certain values not only in the broad white world but also in us and a change that has slowly but certainly turned the Republic of Croatia more and more from the International Criminal Court's object of action. I can personally testify for reasons, some probably know that I was one of those who represented Croatia's subpoenas and I think that since then, this procedure can also be seen through changes to the rules of procedure and evidence where the role was extended... where it allowed the state to express its views in one more quality way and then when it disagrees with the court and the prosecution until the fact that the latest changes have been incorporated into an option that is not only a sign of sympathy for the state but also the needs of the Hague court, that certain cases cross from The Hague jurisdiction to national courts. In any case, the Hague indictments we're talking about contain unpleasant assessments. No political assessment of anyone will help achieve what we all probably want, and that is to show in one court procedure that these facts are not correct. This can only take a legal approach, therefore, to accept those mechanisms which the Statute and the regulation on procedures and evidence foresees, it is of course that the Republic of Croatia must not only appear as... but must also do what is very good, which is otherwise a duty, which is that the Hague Court and the defence and the charges give evidence that will surely lead to quality determination of the truth. Of course, the question is, what does the qualifications contained in the indictment mean? They are, of course, unpleasant, in some or in many or in all people, even causing certain reluctance, but it should be stressed that there is only one way that Croatia is fighting for its interests and thus affirming itself as an active entity in international relations. In any case I see that the debate took a lot of time, so this is some things I will probably say in an individual discussion, it is not good to close my eyes in front of what is before us, we have a long and not always pleasant procedure in front of the international court in The Hague and in any case we should... support all efforts of this government, or some future government to protect the interests of the Republic of Croatia in the statute or international law.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15463	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation, the respected representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15464	So the correction of an incorrect quote refers to the words of a gentleman... that only by legal means can he fight these qualifications in indictments. This is incorrect, because these charges are not legal but have political power and therefore, along with the legal struggle, it takes both political and lobbying and promoting the truth about the Homeland War. Without that, we will not be able to defend ourselves against such unacceptable accusations and cannot allow history to be written in this way.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15465	On behalf of the HNS PGS Club, a respected representative, Vice-President of the House Vesna Pusic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15466	Mr. President, gentlemen of the government, colleagues and colleagues. We came obviously as visible to all the Croatian public and to us here to the big turn. From the demonstrations on the Split Riviera, from "We are All Mirko Norac" from chain binding, from the balvanies on the roads to the tourist season to the handover by the short procedure of all indictees in The Hague quickly and efficiently. In less than a year, the HDZ changed its stance on co-operation with the International Criminal Tribunal for War Crimes committed on the ground of the former Yugoslavia. By our assessment, of course, that's good. It is good that HDZ changed its views from what it represented up to about a year, as it explicitly expressed them when supporting the demonstrations on the Split Riviera. However, whether this fact changes views on the need for cooperation with the International Criminal Tribunal in The Hague, regarding the need to respect the applicable constitutional law governing this cooperation, does this mean that the interests of the country, the interests of justice, and the importance of respecting the law vary depending on who is in power, or more specifically whether they differ depending on whether HDZ is or is not in power. Of course not. The interest of both countries and justice and the Law was the same one year ago and two years ago, and three years ago, as it is today, they are and they were the same both then and today. The interest of Croatia was and was concerning cooperation with the Court of Justice in The Hague, the individualisation of guilt, and thus definitely the removal of every shadow from the defence war we fought, was the second justice for the victims who were killed in the crimes, was the third justice for the defendants on the basis of insight into all documents and the complete truth about what was happening and the interest of Croatia was all these years, so today it is true. The truth is always the best ally. What we are discussing here today, I must say that we have advocated during the term of office of the last government, so I must say and now we have advocated that it is not being debated in the House because we felt that the basis of the existing laws of this country, the basis of the Constitutional Law on Cooperation with The Hague, the basis of the competences that the Government has under this law in cooperation with The Hague, the place and the space for the exercise of arguments, was a political nature in the part in which the indictments relate to the qualification of individual policies and individual policies of Croatia and give space to the state or government to appear in the role of friends of the court. Whether in that section relating to individual charges, then giving their lawyers the opportunity and the right to disprove you for both, that it is the place in The Hague. THE place on the tribunal, as it was a year ago, as it was two years ago, is also today. And we in some way return what we should have and in my opinion we could have already left behind, and this is the lead in this House debate which is not a place here, politicizing on topics that politicizing is not a place here in the House, but is a place on the tribunal in The Hague. And even the political qualifications that are being disproved, they are not disproved here in the House, but they are disproved in The Hague. It is necessary to co-operate with the International Criminal Tribunal for the crimes committed on the ground of the former Yugoslavia. It was to be co-operated a year ago and two and three years ago and to be co-operated today, since, of course, it is in the interest of not only this country, or to the extent in the interest of this country in which the truth is absolutely in the interests of this country, it is in the interests of the victims and in the interest of course of determining the factual situation in relation to individuals who are accused of crimes. At the same time, however, we should have responsibility for our attitudes both in opposition and in power. Some things are not subject to daily political needs. Some things must simply be basic knowledge, fundamental commitment, basic insight, and require when-when-when more courage than usual. It is a characteristic of transition countries, a characteristic of emerging countries that whenever-when it takes exceptional courage to be a very ordinary man. When-when exceptional courage is needed to be quite an ordinary parliamentary representative and when-when exceptional courage is needed to be a purely ordinary politician. This is such a case. And that fact of the government or the opposition doesn't change anything, nor can it change anything, because some things are fixed and they're going to show up as fixed, some have already shown themselves, some will show up in a year, two, some will show up later, but that doesn't change anything on that fact. It is clear that we support co-operation, so I think most of the people who spoke here on behalf of different courts, different clubs, support the government's co-operation with the UN tribunal in The Hague on these cases. As it was clear, we supported it during the term of office of the last government. Therefore, if anything serves, if anything reasonable, if anything developmental, if anything useful serves this debate in the Assembly, it is in my opinion that it is primarily to establish that some things must remain permanent beliefs and that changing attitudes is causing this kind of controversy and frustration and dissatisfaction, because we are not talking today about cooperation with the International Court of Justice in The Hague, we all agreed on that. We are talking today about changing the political stances of the HDZ. And from there frustration, and in the assembly, and from there frustration, and in the public, and that is political instruction. It is a political lesson, I think for all parties and I think in the process of maturing the political whole country and the Croatian political space is one important lesson. But de facto, that's just the topic that we are talking about here today, and I hope that something learned from this and that something will learn about the future, that, therefore, from adapting political views on some key topics on a day-to-day basis, political needs arises only at the end of damage and frustration or delaying the achievement of some of the goals that we all know are common and that the objectives of this country are common. The change in HDZ's stance towards co-operation with the tribunal as much as is caused by discomfort and frustration in this assembly and in the Croatian public is good for the country. That position is not new, the position on the need for co-operation with The Hague tribunal, the position on the need for justice for victims, the view on the need for truth for the defendants is the position we have represented, which the HNS has represented from the very beginning. Therefore, this view as a position in Croatia politics is not new, what is new here is just that now the HDZ has taken that position and that, unlike earlier, it is also representing our position that we have represented from the beginning and that is good, that is good for this country, and I think it is good for HDZ as well. I hope that this political evolution is not only instantaneous, it is not just as that previous attitude was a position that should or was estimated to be necessary at that political moment, I hope that this political evolution is permanent, because this political evolution benefits this country and raises the possibility of debate and the possibility of political conflict in Croatia to a higher level than we were in a year ago and it would be good if it is possible for this little higher level to be able to preserve and debate in this assembly. Therefore, the HNS and PGS Club, of course, supports the policy of co-operation with The Hague. And he sees this debate as if one contribution to the knowledge of political evolution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15467	Okay. In line with the contribution of political evolution, we have a 9 correction of incorrect allegations of your exposure. The first is Vice-President Luka Bebic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15468	Mrs. Pusic wants to convince us that we have taken over her policy and God save us... And he argues that 180% of the HDZ circle has changed views on co-operation with The Hague court. [[the speaker is away from the microphone, you can't hear]] No, we haven't changed any attitude. We were opposed to talking to The Hague prosecutor's office like a court of law. Because the prosecution is one of the parties to the trial. We felt, for example, that General Ante Gotovina's lawyers needed documents in order to defend themselves, not only the prosecution had relevant documents for the trial. It's this one, not your government, that allowed General Gotovina's attorneys. The last government only supplied the prosecution with documentation. The time has come for the defenders of the generals to get documents for the defense.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15469	Thank you very much, dear colleague. A fellow baby..
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15470	...but also helping the court and...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15471	Please time, thank you very much. Kajo Bučan correction of the incorrect allegations by the representative. Marian Bekavac. Why do I have the written Kayo Bucan? Marian Bekavac, good.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15472	Thank you, Mr. President. I would correct the incorrect allegations of counterpart Pusic who said Croatia's current government had handed over the generals quickly and efficiently. It is not true, colleague Pusic, that this government has quickly and efficiently extradited the generals to The Hague. It is true that they, as real heroes of the Homeland War, went voluntarily to The Hague to defend the truth about the Homeland War, and the Croatian government will provide all necessary support and assistance.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15473	Correction by the respected representative Mario Zubovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15474	Mr. President, Mrs. Pusic said HDZ had changed its policy. This is completely incorrect that HDZ changed its policy because, even before it came to power, it was always necessary to use all means to protect the generals, which the previous Government did not use all the funds. And Mrs Pusic said HDZ had extradited the generals to The Hague. That's just not true. The generals surrendered voluntarily as a colleague said.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15475	Thank you very much. Correction of the next respected representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15476	Mr. President, counterpart Pusic incorrectly claimed that HDZ had changed its stance in just a year by 180 degrees. This is completely incorrect because he did not change his attitude and made it clear through the campaign he led before the elections as well as his actions during these six months of government but did change something, in a positive sense he changed his attitude towards Croatian defenders and he certainly changed it. You have also incorrectly found that the topic of today's debate is actually a change in HDZ attitudes. You've made a complete mistake. Read the subject of the agenda, and you will see that it is quite something else.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15477	Thank you. Dear Representative Emil Tomljanovic is correcting the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15478	Mr. President, I would like to correct just one quote from the esteemed vice president who literally said the following. I quote "The policy of justice, that it was a policy of justice, insight into all documents relevant to the Hague court.". Although Mr. Luka Bebic has already said this, I think it is important to mention it because not all the documents have been seen, especially those important for the defence of General Gotovina. I remind both you and the Croatian public that it is even based, they were only recently available and that some of these required the court's decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15479	Thank you. Furthermore, Deputy Vice-President Darko Milinovic is correcting the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15480	I would correct the incorrect allegation of the Honorable Vice-President of the House when she spoke about the movement of politics or the turn of HDZ policy by 180 degrees. I'm reading to you from a diary of several defenders who were brought in "5 hours 05 minutes. I've got five masked weapons coming in to get ready, they're tearing off my daughter's hand, and they're bringing me in with handcuffs." The second in "5.10 wakes me in the bedroom four masked with guns ready, bring me in.". At 13.30, my smallness in front of the lady's prison, dear friends who are inside if you're guilty, you'll answer. At 19.30, the prime minister's direct court in Gospic, following four arrests, were arrested criminals and war criminals. That's why we were protesting. And if it were true, Bico... A few months later, he's praying, "I'll come alone, I'll turn myself in, don't bring me in with the handcuffs and everything I've done... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15481	Thank you very much. Correction of an incorrect quote...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15482	... I made for Croatia and would also do for this government if Mr. Racan...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15483	Thank you very much, colleague Milinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15484	...then he came with dignity, there was no protest in Gospić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15485	A colleague of Milinović's. Branimir Pasecky rectification of an incorrect allegation.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15486	Mr. President, I have to deny here what Mrs. Pusic said, she would like to make us some super conservative party, and although we consider ourselves a conservative party calling us, arguing that we are taking a step back. HDZ has never taken a step back and what we're doing now is a huge step forward. I don't want Mrs. Pusic to take a step back either but to evolve and to withdraw what she said Croatia carried out the invasion of Bosnia.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15487	Correction of the incorrect allegations by the respected representative Maria Byte.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15488	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I am correcting Mrs. Vice President Pusic's incorrect quote. She said the Croatian Democratic Community has changed its views. The Croatian Democratic Union has not changed its views, it has the same views. Namely, April 19, 1996. The House of Representatives of the Croatian Parliament of the Republic of Croatia has decided to declare the Constitutional Law on the Cooperation of the Republic of Croatia with the International Criminal Court. Also, the Croatian Democratic Community has never said that it is not necessary to co-operate with the Hague court, but Madam Vice President, the question is the method that Mr President was saying today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15489	And finally, a correction to the incorrect allegations by the respected representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15490	Mr. President, I will correct the inaccuracies of my colleague Pusic where she stated that politicizing and conducting a debate on such matters is not an instruction in this House but should be conducted in The Hague. This is totally incorrect because here is where we can discuss the political aspects of the qualifications of the indictments because in this House she has also charged against the Croatian leadership of aggression in Bosnia and Herzegovina.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15491	Prime Minister Dr. Ivo Sanader.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15492	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament! I'd rather the debate go differently, but what's there. Well, it is also time to respond to some of the findings said by the distinguished representatives on behalf of the club Mrs Antunović and Mrs Pusic on behalf of our clubs and by spending most of the time not on the debate on the agenda, but on whether HDZ changed its policy or not, whether we spoke to one another yesterday and today, whether we are consistent in our policy and even fell such assessments that we have taken over the policy of the former government in the case of Ms Antunovic, it seems to me that is what she said, that is, in the case of Mrs Pusic, their policy. Well, the order is yes, and, of course, there were quotes of protests that took place somewhere in 2000, 2001, that were organized by the HDZ and we were involved in these protests and look what we're doing today. Well, then that deserves an answer not only for the sake of the Croatian public, not only for the record that keeps it but also deserves the answer for the truth. And I'm going to say a few things now. First of all, about the state of society, the atmospheres in 2000 and 2001 that led to protests. Protests took place, ladies and gentlemen, after it is, for example, and I will only give a few examples to illustrate the situation in Croatia at that time. After several police officers, for example, came to knock on the door now deceased General Janko Bobetka with a warrant to question how many Staff General Janko Bobetko has weapons and if he has all the permits for that weapon. They came to his apartment in Zagreb, he was on vacation in Bratuš near Makarska and his grandson who was at home, whether or not, the police came to him and asked him how many weapons you have and if you have all the permits for that weapon. And he wasn't the only one. The same thing was done, for example, by Dr. Hrvoj Shosic. Victim of the 71st communist terror, one of the prominent members of the Croatian Spring. It came to a man of 70 and a few years, also asking how many weapons he has and if he has a license for that weapon. And also to General Tolja, etc., it was in the paper, I can't remember all the names now, but those where it was controlled know it well. And now the question is, did the police have a right to do that? I'm saying it! But the way and the choice of the persons to whom it was done did not suggest that the police wanted to investigate whether they had the gun license, but rather the suggestion of that act was to humiliate the people who were responsible for the Homeland War! The same was true of defenders. That shameful audit, and no one was against either then or today, to those few, for which it was due to carry out the audit but not in such a way as to accuse everyone of false military disabilities because we know that there were those who raised the percentage of their disability in agreement with the medical commission, etc. And that should have been sanctioned because every grain has a weed and it is logical that these people should have been sanctioned but there should not have been an anmass for the entire defence population to be declared false military disabled, etc. Speaking of HDZ, the president of the then and present-day SDP, or the prime minister at the time, said in the Italian daily "Lunitaj" that HDZ is under investigation. Shortly before, the vice president mentioned, mentioned the scene, or the sad event in Gospić, which I thought I would mention, I will mention it, after the process was started, or after the group of Gospićans were arrested, then the prime minister said we finally began to catch criminals. The debate didn't even begin, we know that before the Constitution everyone is innocent until they judge him differently. And from the right to anyone and the least of the Prime Ministers to judge people in advance. All were released who were then in that group, who were brought in. The way they were brought in, just before the vice president wrote. Ladies and gentlemen, that was the atmosphere! He didn't ask for anything, and we took part in these protests because we didn't agree with your policy generally according to the Homeland War, to the defenders and to the humiliation of these people I had recently led to include generals. Also during the debate on the Homeland War Declaration, but also in several other cases. The president and current HNS president then said Croatia was an aggressor in Bosnia and Herzegovina. We said in the declaration very clearly that Croatia did not wage a conquerive war, so it could not be an aggressor in Bosnia and Herzegovina but rather led a defensive, liberating, just and legitimate Homeland War. Therefore, I am illustrating only the atmosphere that ruled in Croatia and which led to the protest. Now, if anyone has anything against the protest or not, let's put that aside. We heard today and such that it should not be, so MP Babić-Petricevic quoted an article by the Constitution under which it is constitutional law. And I'd be happier if we didn't go back to history all the time because we'd get involved and lose each other's accusations and transfers than turn forward. And this debate today, at least as I understand it, should serve to see how effectively those four goals I spoke about in my opening speech, which is how to defend the truth about the Homeland War from these qualifications that are totally unacceptable to us. Secondly, to help indictees, how third, achieve that to defend themselves from freedom and fourth, to transfer the prose or cases to Croatia. These are the four objectives that I think this debate should focus on. Otherwise, we'll keep getting involved in each other's bickering about what anyone said before, what anyone was saying today. And finally HDZ has a consistent policy, and then and today we've been saying that we're working with the International Criminal Court in The Hague, in the end, you're laughing, but I can give you as an argument that we've proposed a constitutional law on co-operation with The Hague, yes, yes. Therefore, we asked for the establishment of an international criminal court in The Hague to punish the crimes committed against the Croats, etc. But we also said that we should use all the rights at our disposal, all the mechanisms and instruments at our disposal, and that's what this government is doing right now.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15493	Thank you. We're going to the 7th correction of incorrect allegations. First respected representative of Shima Lucin.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15494	Thank you very much. Inaccurate are the arguments, especially the first that the Prime Minister presented about gun control, because at that time over a thousand addresses were nailed and the fact that General Bobetko and General Tolj were among them, and then Ivica Racan shows that they were all equal before the law. And if that was an argument to trigger some avalanche of dissatisfaction, then I don't understand it. But maybe it would be.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15495	Please choose to set up your colleague Lucin. The same thing happens is there's one mood coming from one part of the hall when someone's talking and the other one's talking. Let's keep going!
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15496	All clear! But I don't understand why the HDZ gentlemen are defending themselves not to hand someone over. Perhaps we should hear today, it's a key question that two generals did not go voluntarily to The Hague, if the current government would hand over those generals.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15497	Dear representative Željka Antunović, a correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15498	I want to correct two incorrect allegations, very short and very simple. In fact, it is incorrect to say that the protests took place because of some of the activities and police involved in the regular activities of the police and the protests took place because of charges brought against high-ranking generals, high-ranking Croatian military officers who had become so in the war and the alleged overly mild relationship between the then court in The Hague and certain qualifications in these indictments. The exact same conditions regarding the co-operation indictment were then and today, and the protests were due to the dissatisfaction of the alleged activities of the then government. And another incorrect allegation is that former Prime Minister Ivica Racan condemned anyone in any situation and any gesture, word or deed before, rather than convicted by the court, it is a completely incorrect allegation and a simple former prime minister here and anywhere else has always pleaded for being tried in court rather than in the political arena.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15499	Correction of an incorrect quote by a respected representative, Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15500	Thank you, Mr. President. It is incorrect that Mr. Prime Minister said by explaining here that he said for the sake of the Croatian public that they always said the same thing in person but that the work of the atmosphere should be explained. It's not about any atmosphere, it's simply about your presence on the Split Riviera when you literally stated, today it's about the moaning of the Split Riviera against the government that misunderstood what it brought on January 3rd. That day was a fraud and a misunderstanding, and that's why I join those who don't give up. The Croatian people will not give up their sons. Also when you explained how it came to be... I'm asking for this for the inability to say what was taken from me for a few seconds. [[Applause]] I pray that this is because of the inability to say what was taken from me... [[Talk to your colleagues.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15501	You're speaking to your colleagues.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15502	Leave it for a few seconds. How did the Hague court come to be? It is true that it was the plot of the Croatian and then HDZ's government, but it was also exactly what Prime Minister Sanader, the opposition then said and explained. The initial idea was to punish those criminals who committed war crimes in Croatia. And then no one thought that The Hague would press charges against the Croats.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15503	Dear Representative Nenad Stazic, the next correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15504	It is completely incorrect that HDZ was leading and leading a consistent policy. Evidence 1. Dr. Crescent. Ivo Sanader, 14th extraordinary session on 16 July 2001. On behalf of the HDZ Club, it is necessary to access the amendments and amendments of the Constitutional Law on Croatia's cooperation with... that these amendments of the law should be in accordance with... /The speaker has been disabled/... and by which... /The speaker has been disabled/... [[The speaker is disabled, not understood]] Evidence 2. Dr. Crescent. Ivo Sanader,... /The speaker is off/... state
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15505	Please don't if, let the speaker finish.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15506	The Central Centre for the Defence of the Homeland War and we support the signature of 400,000 Croatian citizens seeking a referendum on co-operation with The Hague. Evidence 3. President of the HDZ Club, Vladimir Seks
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15507	That's proof of the last one. You're out of time, fellow Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15508	... Cooperation with The Hague under such conditions [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15509	Take care of your fellow Stazic. You've run out of time. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15510	Not today.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15511	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, representative of the Jarnjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15512	Neither the request for a referendum nor
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15513	I give you a warning, Mr. Stazic. You're running out of time. You cannot continue after the chairman no longer allows you to speak. ... Because time's up. [[/The intruder doesn't understand.]] You can't, so figure it out once.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15514	Here in the frame... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15515	You're running out of time.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15516	Well, I haven't run out of time.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15517	Well, it's not, so what's this?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15518	Until it expired, you didn't let me.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15519	Injury of the Rules of Procedure. Representative Jarnjak. Please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15520	Your Honor, Mr. President, I would like to say that Article 209 of our Rules of Procedure has been injured and that there is virtually no statement corrected, but I would just like to tell you that I received 15 minutes ago information that our boys in The Hague are looking at a direct transmission, seeing this whole debate, they conveyed greetings to the Croatian government and its president because they believe that the government is doing everything to get them back and to be okay with them, and I am telling you because they have expressed that they find this debate extremely difficult.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15521	Comrade Jarnjak, this is not a breach of the Rules of Procedure and please don't do this. You could have brought it out the other way. Don't be, and a reminder rather than anything. Dear Representative Joseph Leco.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15522	First of all, I solemnly commit myself to no longer correcting incorrect allegations because I think it is unproductive in the interest of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia to conduct such a debate. And secondly, I'm correcting the Prime Minister's allegations, Mr. Sanader, because he incompletely cited the reasons for the events he was talking about. In addition to this, I would like to point out that HDZ, the HDZ Club, on 8 February 2001, referred to the parliamentary procedure of a proposal for emergency proceedings for a reason after the State Attorney's Office had initiated an investigation against the generals, requested that the detention be determined by the investigating judge. There has been a very tense political situation in Croatia and so on. Due to the great anxiety and local HDZ, we are asking to discuss in the Croatian Parliament so that we can bring, bring reviews, political assessments of the behaviour of the Croatian government.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15523	Thank you very much. Correction of an incorrect quotation
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15524	So he could have listed his own... Thank you very much. [[The speaker doesn't understand, speakers speak at the same time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15525	The Honorable Representative of the Koreans.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15526	I am correcting the inaccuracies of the Prime Minister, Mr. Sanader, that the HDZ has led and is still leading a consistent policy on relations with the Hague court. Falsely because you have initiated amendments to the Constitutional Law on Cooperation with the Hague Court, and unless circumstances are such as to amend the Constitutional Law, to go to direct democracy or to give the Croatian people a referendum. If a consistent policy had already been initiated, you would have initiated the adoption of amendments and amendments to the Constitutional Law.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15527	And finally, the most respected representative, William Herman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15528	Mr. President, the assumption was that the atmosphere was different and yes, we heard several examples. It's possible that these examples may have affected the atmosphere, but the fact is something else, and that's the correction of the incorrect, it's the correction of the false assumption. Why was the atmosphere really different? From July 2001: “If we had acted as you today in cooperation with the Hague Court in 1990, if we had gone on a line of less resistance there would be no Croatia.” Here at the Assembly of Ivo Sanader.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15529	Yeah. Dear Representative Ivan Chehok on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the HSLS DC. You're up now, later. ... No matter what, I can see you well. [[/The intruder doesn't understand.]] I see you, I see you great. I'd love to please you, but I can't because you're later, you're later, I can't, I can't please you, I can't please you. I can't please you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15530	Dear President, Deputy Prime Minister, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, if it's true, and we have no reason not to trust Mr. Jarnjak's representative to let Mr. Cermak and Markac look at us, then I think we all need to ask ourselves, do we want to entertain them or do we really want to discuss them seriously? Did we think today we were going to a game like fans or discussing a serious topic? “Bleeding is our every decision” Hamlet said, and no matter how much we try to paint these decisions today with all possible political colors white, red, yellow-blue, white red, cubed or any other decision is ours when it comes to cooperation with the Hague of ladies and gentlemen pales and all we have to say about it is quite unmistakable in relation to our powers. And with as much passion as we approach this debate, the fact is that there is little we can change and that we can change our desires, our interests, national or civil or any other difficulties we can have, however severe that debate has been achieved. But most of all, this decision is pale because it is overshadowed by our own political arrogance, pride and in this four-year term, this is already the fifth debate that is directly or indirectly related to the topic of co-operation with the Hague tribunal, the fifth debate of which actually has no special benefit because we have not moved away from the beginning. And if we're talking a little bit today as if it were a national epic, then I'm going to say that it reminds me of that epic Mažuranić verse "Gilitani, and the spear doesn't throw." We're bloated, we're getting up on our backs, we're yelling at each other in these four years and against the unjust world, like Don Quiti, we're flying into the windmills, all of us are guilty of America across the world, of the legal order. I don't know what we haven't tried to say in that political passion without actually doing anything. In fact, ladies and gentlemen, the more we discussed, the more pathetic the tarpaulins with national... or with a little bit of even a hymn civil tact here is said, the more the charges have actually arrived. We have to admit it to ourselves. The more we debated, the more and more we squeezed our fists, the more the accusations continued to come, and the worst in these indictments appeared and strengthened political qualifications, the more those lines in which we read were complemented, with the right to read political qualifications. So it really seems to me today that there is no room for cheerleading passions and that the amount of our passion is, in fact, in reverse, proportional to the amount of our power in relation to The Hague Court and to the international legal order. But something else is symptomatic, which makes us feel more powerless, and the more powerless we are, in fact, the bigger our mutual insolence, the more ruthless and rude we are to each other, the more we go back to the past, the more we enter some historical ambushes and ambushes since 1918, 1945, 45, 50 years, 1991, 2000, etc. And I think that indeed today and the gentlemen who are following us in The Hague and the Croatian people doesn't matter at all anymore, and I'm going to say that as a 39-year-old man, and I don't believe I would pretentively call myself younger, believe all of our young men and girls, it really doesn't matter what HDZ meant three or four years ago or what SDP meant three or four years ago or what he meant two years ago, so if you really want me to say it doesn't matter what HSLS meant at all, even though I think we're the only party that was consistent by the end. We're the only party who hasn't even been overly heroic at the gatherings, we haven't been overly heroic or cowardly and humbly accepted that we have to pass the indictment on Saturday night and that we have to discuss this with ministers, I mean the charges against Mr Gotovina, even though we knew that the ministers had no idea what the contents of that indictment were. We are the only party that has been consistent, but I think Croatian citizens are not interested at this point, they are interested in whether we have effective legal mechanisms to oppose these political qualifications. Do we have enough power and enough scientific intelligence in this country, I think we have, to finally establish one documentary, historical if we need a memorial centre that will finally document the truth not of the entire Homeland War, because when it comes to legends, they become the truths of all of us that are shared but of the truths about individual actions within the Homeland War, the truth about individual participants in these actions. This is what the gentlemen who listen to us today are interested in Croatian citizens. They are perfectly everything that was thought or spoken of four years ago because we are all standing in spite of our differences and despite the fact that we have been remanded and that we have returned to the ambushes and plantings of the past, we are all facing the same challenge, we are all faced with the fact that the charges have come again, that they have been more and more and that they have been increasingly difficult and therefore we have to face it politically in such a way that we finally clearly document the truth about certain actions in the Homeland War and political diplomacy which, in my opinion, has failed before and a little while and today, of course, scheduled and then and all possible legal mechanisms that need to be used. I would say in the end that I think that the government has done everything possible at this point, and I would say that, without deepening these differences that have occurred today, it is still necessary to say that there is an important different circumstance in the extradition, i.e. in dealing with the order of the Hague Prosecutor's Office and the Court when it comes to General Gotovina and Bobettk and when it comes to these two of our citizens of the generals. It's this important circumstance that these gentlemen have voluntarily surrendered themselves. It would be the worst, we could argue, we could poison our relationships here, and words could be because of that past poisoned to the end, but it would be the worst thing for us today to jeopardize the honor and dignity of the people who wanted to volunteer to go to court in The Hague. Because ladies and gentlemen, heroic acts aren't a one-time act, they don't get it in the war, they get it as someone says more in peace. These gentlemen have shown that they are more mature, I would say than most of us here, and let's not make their discussion more difficult today and let's not spoil their voluntary decision.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15531	Thank you very much, dear colleague. Let me just have one piece of information. In accordance with Article 207(2) of our Rules of Procedure, it is time to apply for a 10 minute discussion and brief information as a supplement to this, 46 MPs were reported in an individual debate for 10 minutes plus two other clubs and, of course, correcting incorrect allegations. We got two this time. First correction by MP Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15532	Madam Vice President, otherwise when a colleague of the Czech Republic speaks for himself, Chehok when speaking in his otherwise good manner, especially this time when he hears that someone was speaking from the HDZ and then someone from the SDP performs in order to save the peace of mind by telling me here irrevocably to each other. I do, otherwise we don't allow SDP. You speak for yourself, not for us. I'm partially correcting what he said was the only party that was consistent. I don't want to talk about their consistency right now, but in any case, especially on these subjects, it was consistent exactly with the SDP.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15533	Thank you very much, dear colleague. Please, colleagues and colleagues, a little more. Don't get it from the bench. Next correction by her colleague, Ruža Tomasic. I'm sorry for the violation of the Rules of Procedure. Excuse me, colleague. Here you go, buddy Chehok.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15534	Ms Ingrid has injured Rules 214 and 214 respectively. It's the perfect thing for me to have a colleague's manners. I don't have any saving manners unlike those of you who have so-called. Reforming manner, and you have not made any important and valuable reforms for Croatian society, I have the right to my standards of speech.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15535	Thank you very much, colleague. Excuse me, colleague. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15536	Thank you very much, Madam President. I can't believe Mr. Chehok, with such a serious face, said that the only party that is consistent, when everyone knows about The Hague that the Croatian party of rights was the only consistent party, and precisely Mr. Chehok, inconsistently, the voters punished in the previous elections. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15537	Thank you very much, colleague. Let's move on with the debate. On behalf of the Croatian Peasant Party Club representative Zlatko Tomčić, please colleagues and colleagues try listening to the representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15538	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. In the beginning of March, giving the initiative for this debate, the HSS Club began with the following facts: First, that these charges against General Cermak and General Markac and later against six that there are a number of unacceptable political assessments of the character of the Homeland War, the role of the then authorities of the Republic of Croatia, as well as indictees who are burdened with incriminations and evaluations which are not the subject of charges of the International Criminal Court in The Hague. And we've come from the following fact that about this state of affairs in the indictments someone has to give a political assessment. This political assessment can only be given by the Croatian Parliament, therefore the most national representation, representing the people, defending its feelings and dignity and defending the character of the Homeland War, in the end it is our obligation here in this Chamber to bring constitutional law and resolution on the cooperation of the Republic of Croatia with the International Criminal Court. By assessing from a distance of about 4 months how long it has been since the start of the submission of this initiative until today when we are having this debate we want to repeat it several times. Historical truths cannot be tried before an international criminal court in The Hague, he should in no case be a political court but must be tried for concrete violations of international war and humanitarian law. And secondly, there seems to me to be absolutely no reason, regardless of the strong arguments that are being made here today, that the debate is being held before the Parliament four months after the launch of this initiative. But something about the measure of things. Parts of the content of the new Hague indictments, above all, against General Markac and Cermak, have shocked many in Croatia in August 2002, but only because they forgot that the hint of such accusations was very clear, but in the indictment of Janko Bobetka in August 2002, which they accused that, during, during and after Croatian action in the Medak pocket, I had planned or in agreement with others, encouraged or supported the persecution of Serbian civilians on a political, racial and religious basis. Of course, we can speak today whether then the government and then state policy have stood firm, against this reckless manipulation and political qualification of the defence actions of the Croatian Army as a war crime, the chief commander of the Croatian Army, which would be all together in accordance with the Parliamentary Declaration of the Homeland War. Of course, even then the decision was not simple and easy, but it was certainly necessary to protect the fundamental values of the creation of the state by all legitimate rights, political diplomatic and scientific means. The government of the day did what it could. In the new Hague indictments, the dilemma remained exactly the same with the fact that it was under no cost to spoil the chances of the Republic of Croatia entering the European Union, with certain parts of the indictments being "fully co-operative" compared to those previously in their political approach, even more directly, even more sophisticated, and the procedures now of the acute authorities. Due to the positive avis and acceptance of the Republic of Croatia as a candidate for the European Union, responsible people in Croatian state policy on the wings of the recommendations of the European Commission on the opening of negotiations on the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union, avoid at all talking about unpleasant accusations and are very restrictive on the initiative of both the HSS Club and the HSP Club on the need for a parliamentary debate, and it seems that they do not intend to take any more seriously to challenge the productive, political and monstrous accusations referred to the Republic of Croatia. I stress the second or third sentence from my presentation where I made it very clear we sought this debate in order to respond politically to the political accusations referred to in the Republic of Croatia through these indictments of the Hague Court. The HSS is certainly not against the association of the Republic of Croatia in the European Union, and we daily confirm it by our political practice, acting in accordance with its radical policy, which has long been analysed by Croatian society as democratic and free, society of human rights, peace, tolerance and openness to the world, but with national dignity and self-awareness of its own value, so it is insecure that today we have to listen to stories about HSS as some kind of station of Eurosceptics. NO, HSS advocates real state policy, so any utilitarian policy is unacceptable to us, where the benefit as a foundation of morality, which would put these fundamental values embedded in our Constitution into question and practically degrade us morally. On the contrary, it is necessary to defend the fundamental principles and their dignity in a legitimate way and the name of fundamental justice and international rights and ethical values and to show that political volunteerism, dirtyed by volunteerism, are the most noble feelings of a small people who wanted nothing more than to defend themselves against aggression and defend their internationally recognised state. It is legitimate, therefore, that Croatia rejects any attempts to establish individual responsibility for war crimes in criminal proceedings, attribute them to criminal intentions, invent war goals, and defend against aggression, put the occupation of its own country in a different way. So far, such reflections, ladies and gentlemen, have been found only in the sphere of the combination of the different interests of world policy, with the aim of equating guilt and amnesty of aggressors, and now it is also indirectly attempted by a court indictment which is certainly a paradox and cannot be in line with the international legal order or any political decisions of the Security Council of the United Nations. It has been found objectively that Croatia was the victim of large-scale Serbian aggression, with a large part of the country occupied, so the desire for most of the people was the sole release and defence of its country, not the creation of some large Croatia, or ethnic cleansing. If it was in someone's heads, individuals or groups, any such ideas it certainly wasn't and could not have been Croatian politics. It is notable that the general Croatian policy at the beginning of the aggression on the Republic of Croatia was led by the then Government of National Unity, which was composed of all relevant parties and options with the support of the entire Croatian people and all citizens who feel Croatia as their own country. Of course, in such a policy, the late President Franjo Tudjman had a great influence as president of the Republic because of his constitutional powers but he could not make any decision regarding the war, the use of the armed forces outside the country without the decision of this House, so without a decision of the Croatian Parliament. That is why Tudjman's policy towards Bosnia and Herzegovina and the war conflicts between Muslims and Croats is an unsustainable issue declaring the Republic of Croatia's aggression against Bosnia and Herzegovina. Tudjman's policy towards Bosnia in all of its HSS variations from the very beginning was not acceptable. That's what the late President Drago Stipac used to talk about very often. and perhaps we were in this criticism of Tudjman's policy towards Bosnia and Herzegovina and the most consistent as a party. However, no equilibristics can conclude Croatia's aggression to Bosnia and Herzegovina. One is the utopian ideas of Franjo Tudjman and his followers from Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina, and another is what was really happening there between all sides of the conflict. The real nature and causes of war conflicts in Bosnia and Herzegovina, including the conflict between Muslims and Croats, has yet to be investigated. Because they're not uniform, they're very complex and very complicated. A serious and deeper political scientific historical analysis of all these events is needed to get the right answer, not to be so easy and unfoundedly accused of Croatia. That is why it must be important for us in Croatia to determine the historical truth, and this is only possible by an objective approach, after which we will be able to talk more specifically about everyone's personal responsibility and role. It is the only way to catharsis our people and the peaceful future of Croatia in a democratic atmosphere with all other countries of Europe, or the European Union. Of course, this approach does not contradict the need to establish individual criminal responsibility for war crimes and violations of humanitarian law, regardless of who is involved if there is evidence. The HSS, therefore, holds that the Croatian Parliament has already brought the declaration of the Homeland War as the most national representative body to protect the country's reputation and dignity of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, as well as the character and dignity of the Homeland War and defenders by making certain conclusions or similar documents. That is why the HSS Club proposed the conclusions that I see delivered to you on benches with which almost all political parties agreed in April of the month, at least such announcements were something. We recommend that you study this document in detail. We believe that this document can meet the expectations of the Croatian public in relation to the Croatian Parliament in terms of the protection of the Homeland War, in terms of protecting the integrity of defenders, in terms of protecting their own credibility. It can be a good basis for sending a signal to the international community regardless of all circumstances about the position of this people and citizens of the Republic of Croatia when it comes to political incrimination of unacceptable political incrimination in The Hague indictments. These proposed conclusions can also be a good basis for exactly what the Government is trying to do in a legal sense by participating and meddling in a trial before The Hague court, such a document, which the HSS has proposed or some kind of modified is nevertheless, may be precisely supporting the government for its further appearance as an interface to the International Criminal Court. This home, the Croatian Parliament simply cannot, in this political sense, remain without any document after this debate, regardless of this electrified atmosphere, this House must give a political assessment of the political incrimination contained in The Hague indictments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15539	Thank you very much, dear colleague. We have corrections to incorrect allegations, but before that, one violation of the Rules of Procedure, the respected representative Shemso Tankovic. Here you go, my colleague. Please engage.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15540	It's all right. Thank you very much. Well, I'd only react to a part of a statement by my colleague Zlatko Tomcic when he talks about a conflict.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15541	Excuse the article you must specify the Rules of Procedure. It was a violation of the Rules of Procedure, not a correction, please, colleagues and colleagues, I don't need any help.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15542	It is about correcting an incorrect quote for a simple reason, because it is about the conflict between Muslims and Croats. I remind you that the Bosniaks live in Bosnia and Herzegovina, I am elected as a member of the Bosniak people. Therefore, the use of the name Muslimman is a historically outdated term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15543	Thank you very much, dear colleague. You picked up the second plate, but okay, it's possible to make a mistake. You have raised a breach of the Rules of Procedure, I am sad to explain, because some other colleagues and colleagues have reported earlier for corrections of the incorrect allegations, and according to our Rules of Procedure, the first is the violation of the Rules of Procedure. So I'm sorry you got the word before the others. The first one was a representative of Ivo Lončar.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15544	Madam Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. I'm taking one big risk, if I've been able to translate what the gentleman was saying well enough. But hopefully with my help as much as I understand his language and with the help of his neighbors, we were able to translate this sentence. "By submitting this proposal, we have come from the fact that someone can give a political assessment of these charges." It's a finished quote. This is to make the gentleman who spoke, this is not true at all. Why? Because the question arises, where was the gentleman when the political assessment was given three years ago, when he created the Party Peasant Coalition by destroying Drazen Budisha and HSLS? Therefore, I simply hold that it is completely incorrect and it would be okay to give a political assessment of that time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15545	Thank you very much, dear colleague. I believe you've broken the Rules of Procedure because you haven't corrected the incorrect quote, and you haven't even spoken the official language. I've been obliged to warn you. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Agent Harami. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15546	Representative Lončar has injured Article 214. The Rules of Procedure, insulting representative Zlatko Tomcic, therefore I suggest that he be given a warning.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15547	Thank you very much for the suggestion. I warned my colleague. Comrade Lonchar, please, let's move on. Representative Ivan Bagarić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15548	I am correcting the incorrect allegations of a fellow MP who mentioned the utopia of Franjo Tudjman and his followers in Bosnia and Herzegovina. As a witness, I know Franjo Tudjman encouraged the adoption of a declaration of Bosnia and Herzegovina's independence, a referendum on Bosnia and Herzegovina's independence and international recognition. Therefore, Franjo Tudjman was for independent Bosnia and Herzegovina, and there was no utopia. On the other hand, if utopia was anything then it was repeated in an attempt by Franjo Tudjman to make an alliance with Bosniak President Ali Izetbegovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15549	I'm sorry, you've already corrected the incorrect quote. Thank you very much. This was an explanation. Thank you very much. Agent Niko Rebic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15550	So Mr. Tomcic incorrectly claimed that the HDZ government is doing nothing to dismiss qualifications from the indictments against General Markac and Cermak. As we heard from the prime minister, he personally disputed the unacceptable qualifications with two letters to the court and requested that the government be involved in the judicial process and that we heard he received a positive response, and the government put together a professional team, or put it together, to defend the interests of both the generals and the Croatian state in The Hague. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15551	Thank you very much. The next correction of the incorrect allegations by Zdenka Babić-Petricevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15552	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen! The policy or utopian ideas of Tudjman and his followers towards Bosnia and Herzegovina, that's half the quote, of course, did not agree with HSS as Mr. Tomcic said. Mr. Tomcic, it wasn't utopia. Dr. Franjo Tudjman then, at the head of the Republic of Croatia, was the first to recognise Bosnia and Herzegovina as a sovereign state. That's one thing. And everything else he did towards Bosnia and Herzegovina was imposed on him by the 1990 Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. And thirdly, I'm asking you as a fellow representative, so you didn't say otherwise or wrongly just that it was in Croatian.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15553	My colleagues, you have not corrected the incorrect assumption. I will indeed have to warn MPs and MPs to abide by the Rules of Procedure. Please. Representative Zivko Nenadić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15554	Dear Vice President, I will also correct my colleague Tomcic's quote when he said that Franjo Tudjman and his followers had a utopian idea. That's just not true. The idea of Franjo Tuđman and his supporters, not to use the word of the followers, led to the creation of the Croatian state but also to the survival of Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15555	Thank you very much. Next up is Branimir Pasecky. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15556	I'd say my indignation and I'd say...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15557	I'm sorry, you can only make amends.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15558	... the inaccuracy of the Caliphics of President Tudjman in general because it is an insult both to me and to all those who have appreciated his work, which we have worked with. And according to the respect of Mr. President Franjo Tudjman, then, as Mr. Tomcic said he would evaluate history. Then let's let this great man really evaluate history.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15559	Thank you very much. Please, colleagues and colleagues, let's move on. Josip Djakić, come in!
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15560	Madam Vice-President, I would like to correct Mr Tomcic's incorrect claim that the late President Franjo Tudjman led the utopian policy towards Bosnia and Herzegovina along with his followers. That is incorrect because Franjo Tudjman, along with his followers, fulfilled the constitution that the Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina deserve all the help of the Republic of Croatia. And he also did nothing other than what was described, written in the Resolution on Cooperation with the International Criminal Court, which is to remind again, co-operation with the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Friendship Agreement of 21 July 1992 as well as the Split Agreement of 22 July 1995. It's not utopian politics and it can't be called that.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15561	Thank you very much, colleague. I think we can move on. The next representative is Luka Bebic, on behalf of the HDZ Club. Here you go, fellow Vice President!
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15562	Madam Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament! Mr. Chehok suggested that we be humble and be as arrogant as possible. This humility and lack and actually opposition to arrogance are due to our defenders, our dead and our prisoners in The Hague. We need to support the government in the activities so that our guests get the right to defend themselves from freedom as soon as possible, because they are also showing themselves today for Croatia and our generals Markac, Gotovina, Cermak, Ademi and Norac have great merits for Croatia in defending and liberating the country, and this must never be forgotten by the Croatian people and the Croatian state. Qualifications from the indictments of General Markac and General Cermak, who speak of association for criminal purposes, etc. It should be rejected because these are political qualifications and political means and legal means when the time comes to challenge such qualifications because on behalf of the Croatian people and citizens of Croatia and this Croatian Parliament cannot agree. Some co-operation with The Hague implies accepting qualifications and accusations made by the Hague prosecutor and we are trying to show that co-operation with The Hague court and contesting an unfounded indictment because the aim of the court is to determine the truth and not to root for one side of the process. For this reason, the government wrote to the President of the Court on two occasions trying to interfere as court friends in challenging those parts of the indictment for which there are firm arguments. Of course, we have never questioned the possible individual responsibility of anyone, and this is determined by a court of law. So far for the world and for us these people are innocent or innocent. Now, the issue here in the last half hour is the issue of relations with Bosnia and Herzegovina and those qualifications that some of Croatia has interfered in Bosnia and Herzegovina with its activities by war, action and the like. I'll remind you one more time it's 21.7.72. The Tudjman-Izetbegovic agreement created a basis for assistance in Bosnia and Herzegovina's border works. So, legitimately two presidents with all their constitutional and legal powers that they had. And secondly, 13 days before the Storm. 22.7.05. The Split Agreement strengthens and legal what happened later in the co-operation of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Army, the Croatian Defence Council and the Croatian Army. That's the facts. And here I will especially highlight the pride of the Croatian people and citizens of Croatia who, when the aggression against Bosnia and Herzegovina began in 1992. That then rivers of thousands, dozens and even hundreds of thousands of refugees and exiles from Bosnia and Herzegovina were mainly Croats and Bosniaks headed towards Croatia. They did not go towards Serbia but went to Croatian cities, they went to Croatian hotels and other destinations, and we can be proud that despite the sad conflict that in my opinion was provoked by others because of other interests, but unfortunately the conflict happened regardless of his reasons, exiles and refugees continued to arrive in Croatian state territory in Croatian cities and villages. And that is when we look back at that time pride for Croatians and all Croatian citizens who have helped and accepted both Croats and Bosniaks who have come because they have been exiled from their villages, from their cities, from their houses. What do we need now? What should this do or in what direction should it act that such a single policy that has been conducted with everything that has been wrong but has been well presented also in relation to the accusations of the six from Bosnia and Herzegovina and of course of these two generals and in relation to General Ante Gotovina, Norac and Ademi? We have to do everything we can to help them. To help them with logistics, to help their family and to help with legal means as much as possible. And for that reason, I welcome the government's establishment of advice on the preparation of a friend of the Court before an international criminal court of the eminent domestic and foreign experts who I believe will find enough arguments so that when the trial begins, they can arm the defence of our generals and all those accused there. Was the cooperation that used to mean the same supply to say so with arguments and charges, so, Mrs. Carla Del Ponte and her team, or was it meant to be from the very beginning for the sake of truth, for the sake of justice and for equal treatment in court and for the accused generals? And now that we compare that there have been some changes, it's just that we're all looking for what they're looking for, for example. General Gotovina's defenders are told to give them an insight into the documents and to give them the documents finally welcomed by the government of Ivo Sanader, so these lawyers have received appropriate documentation to defend the defendant general in a court of law with Mrs Del Ponte. So helping the court is, helping to get to the truth, not cheering for one side. We have witnessed for months as some have competed on who will deliver more documents to The Hague's prosecution. We don't mind having those documents received by the Hague prosecution, but it should also be given to the other side of the defence of these accused generals. I know that today, it's hard to admit some past mistakes, some bad marks, but it should also be objective to say that politics is going on in a given environment. Now it's an environment of correspondence with the President of the Criminal Court, now it's that, and circumstances are trying to get our generals to defend themselves with freedom but not convincing Mrs. Del Ponte what she's going to write in her indictment, although that's possible. We may not have had enough arguments or counter arguments. But now we try to be interested in the Court in this way to appear as the third party in court and supply our generals with certain documentation. And then it's actually in The Hague court that based on all of this, based on all the relevant facts, the arguments make a final verdict. Of course we can't agree that we can't agree that he's being tried for Croatia, that he's being accused of genocide, that he's accusing himself of aggression for Bosnia and Herzegovina, and in that sense, both by political and legal means, we're going to try to kill it all together because we have solid arguments in front of The Hague. I pray this Parliament that at one point we overcome everything that has been the past in terms of who has said and done what, although we have no reason not to confrontation but in the interest of the Hague... We do everything to support our government in all its activities to ensure that it defends the historical truth of the Homeland War, to help suspects and indictees in The Hague, to defend themselves with freedom and to defend themselves in Croatia before Croatian courts. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This is what we can do, any irrationality of another or attempt to radicalise this matter in other ways than what is the framework of the Hague Court and what is the framework of the Constitutional Law in cooperation with the Hague Court can only harm our indictees and cannot benefit them at all. I therefore plead to support all activities in this sense, to support this body formed, the Council for the Preparation of Friends of the Court before the International Criminal Court, to open all our archives, to make all arguments and that our defendants, indictees in The Hague, can be properly defended. Justly and evenly defended before that Court. This would be the ultimate goal and contribution of this session of the Croatian Parliament to go this way to support all government activities and thus to help our people I repeat, both Norac and Cermak and Markac, Adeji and Gotovina have great merit for Croatia and defence and its defence and freedom of the country and must never be forgotten by the Croatian people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15563	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. We have corrections to incorrect allegations. He is the first representative of Anto Djapic, here's a esteemed colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15564	Well, my colleague Bebic and some other MPs have been repeating one, perhaps not intended inaccuracy when it comes to the right of defence from freedom. It's not about the Institute of Defense, it's about waiting for freedom until the trial begins. So that's, that's, that's the important difference. So for the sake of the public to know what it's about because it's also waiting on the loose when we say what Ademi has, it's still a certain restriction they also have to report to the police or to the movement and so on and so on so that they don't think that even when the trial starts they'll be at large all the time. So I wanted to clarify it for future debates.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15565	Thank you very much, dear colleague. The next is Honorable Agent Ante Markov, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15566	A colleague, Bebic, said that in the interest of the Hague dignitaries, we would be there to support our government in all initiatives, precisely, but insufficiently. We here absolutely support our government in everything it does in terms of legal norms, in terms of diplomatic activities, but we here when we deal with politics. This is the home of the Croatian people in which politics is created. Politics belongs to us, and politics is exactly why we're discussing here today because they're political,
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15567	Excuse me for correcting?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15568	Political evaluations are the reason why we oppose each other. That's why we're discussing here today. They must dispute here, and then it will be much easier for our government to do what is important within legal norms and diplomatic offensives.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15569	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Slavko Linic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15570	I am correcting the allegations of Vice-President of Mr Bebic's House that there are differences in the performance of the former coalition government and the current government regarding the insurance of documents. I would say that the real truth is that there are differences between the former HDZ government that co-operated with lawyers Rifkin in sending money, rather than documents, resulting in 45 years of conviction by Blaskic, and one last government is seeking to secure the defence of The Hague indictees.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15571	Thank you very much. Honored representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15572	Thank you. It is not true what counterpart Bebic said that the HDZ government submitted documents to Gotovina's lawyers because just yet, but during the time HDZ took over, the procedure was still under way, so documents were handed over on the basis of a court ruling. That's the first one. Furthermore, as the government differs this and the former in correspondence, correspondence is better. I wouldn't say that better correspondence with the court in The Hague when here today, yesterday the president of that court speaks, raises open doubts about the competence of our courts, which was not the case before.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15573	Thank you very much. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Vice President Luka Bebić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15574	The lady didn't correct my claim because I determined that this government had submitted documents that were true. If there was a court ruling, there was before this government came, which you didn't give them.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15575	Thank you very much. Okay. I hope you'll really say, article, please... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15576	Madam Vice President again, Article 209 is misused. However, the rules of procedure are thus corrected by incorrect allegations. And it's incorrect that you didn't give up on the basis of the verdict. The verdict was passed during HDZ rule.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15577	Another breach of the Rules of Procedure. Vice President of the House Bebic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15578	... since 17 October 2003, which requires these documents to be given, and you were later in power for more than 2 months. [[The speaker was subsequently turned on]] Why didn't you listen to the Parliament's conclusion?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15579	Thank you very much. I suggest we move on. Another, one correction to an incorrect quote. Representative Dragica Zgrebec, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15580	counterpart Bebic incorrectly says that the new circumstances are now citing as a new circumstance the Croatian government's correspondence with The Hague court. It's true that HDZ is in power now. He was formerly in opposition, and all other circumstances of Croatia's and Croatian government's relations with The Hague tribunal are the same. The Hague tribunal continues to seek Croatian suspects as requested by both the coalition and today's government. So the circumstances are the same. The only difference is that today, when we are in opposition and in opposition, we are thinking and acting the same way as when we were in power and in doing so we support the Croatian Government, which in this way responds in cooperation with The Hague Court.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15581	Thank you very much. The next correction by the respected representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15582	I'm correcting the incorrect allegations relating first of all to the documentation, and secondly, that only legal means in defense are sufficient. As far as the paperwork is concerned, I have to say that this documentation means... The construction day today is not arranged and that many in The Hague today bought it on the black market. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Other means of law are not only sufficient legal means. If only the legal means were enough, Blaskić wouldn't get 45 years. You wouldn't get 45 years. It is also necessary to take the political resources that we are talking about. It is not enough to say just: “We will start a Croatian home centre.” It should be made to divide and lobby in the interest of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15583	Thank you very much. Injury of the Rules of Procedure. Vice-President of the House Luka Bebić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15584	On Article 214, I said that legal, but also political, disqualification, political disqualifications should be taken. That's what I said.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15585	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I invite you and remind you of the beginning of today's debate. Let's try to stick to the subject. Not only because of 46 registered and for each speaker a minimum of 5 corrections of the incorrect quote, but also because of the quality of the debate. Here's a comment like this. He has yet to apply for the correction of the incorrect alleged representative Lucin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15586	Thank you very much. I agree with Mr. Vice President that we should turn to the future, but then he shouldn't turn back on his own. About the paperwork, if you want the letters. The former government has written and challenged qualifications, such as those presented in general Gotovina's indictment. I have to say, on the record, that by 2000, a bunch of files had already gone to The Hague because when we were getting the papers from The Hague, we were getting them classified. And around Mr Blaskovic, that the documentation stored in the HIS by 2000 was available to defend General Blaskovic would certainly not have received 45 years. There's so much about the file.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15587	Thank you very much. This was an extended correction of an incorrect quote. I'm asking you nicely to go to a debate, to an individual debate. The first of 46 respected representatives of Slaven Letica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15588	Well, I'm glad to be the first to speak individually. I think it should be methodological to set up a debate so as not to discuss what it was, what anyone was saying but what it could be, how, when it is done to facilitate the state's position, to facilitate the position of the defendants in The Hague tribunal and to probably not repeat such discussions in a cyclical political context. As far as I am concerned, the Prime Minister's principled position that it should have 4 principled goals in future action towards The Hague tribunal, I would add the fifth goal, which is to defend the right to a good vote of those who are no longer in a position to defend themselves. This includes the late President Tudjman and the whole crowd of people on charges and these two indictments concerning Croatia and the charges related to Bosnia and Herzegovina. As for the personal dramas of Croatian warriors, members of their families, children, women and us, I think that drama can be illustrated, I will try to concentrate. There's an American historian named Henry Steel Comeger. It's 95 years alive, practically over the past century, and he said the following thing: That every family, every single person and every nation has a useful or useful past, and what we're taking away is our memory of what the Prime Minister this morning called a glorious, triumphant, magnificent, and Homeland War, and "Maestral" and "Bleak" and "Storm". All this The Hague tribunal, not Zlatko Tomcic, qualify as a crime. So today we're facing an absurd situation that two types of Hague indictments force us to receptualize the concept of what's Colloquial and officially called the Homeland War. I think in the future we need to talk about two wars. The Homeland War on the Republic of Croatia and that in the near future the HSP club will be sent to the parliamentary procedure in early September a declaration on the causes of nature and the consequences of the wars in Bosnia and Herzegovina. It is a completely different war, treated by the Hague prosecution and will also be treated by the Hague tribunal's verdicts. This morning, the esteemed vice president and vice president of parliament spoke about how Luka Bebic, how the tanks attacked from Bosnia and Herzegovina, Croatia. Not only tanks, but airplanes, all evil, cannons, hoodies, I don't know multi-tube pitchers, etc. So what and how can it be done? First thing about advice. I proposed to the prime minister in a letter that I sent on September 9th to form an interdisciplinary team, and I suggested the names I would repeat, only one of those names he included in this advice. I suggested: Mirjana Damascus, Norman Cigar, David Arif, Nojl Malcoma, Vladimir Đur Degen, Mirjana Kasapović, Ivan Šimonović, Budislav Vukas, Ivo Josipovic, Miomir Zuzul, Miroslav Tudjman, General Krešimir Cosic and some others. This way, the proposed advice will not benefit much. There are three culprits, four historians and one geographer. There's not a single witness of time. From the early '90s, so in 89, 90's all a few people alive who have insights about what's going on. There are also several participants from the government's period of democratic unity to be urgently involved. So Professor Damascus, who I've been communicating with for a long time, and after that long communication, she's finally spoken to him and she's gone, the Minister of Justice says the next thing I'm going to quote here. The defence of truth in The Hague has much greater importance because the creation of a solid national identity is a requirement for the formation of a state to be seen in a positive light. If George Washington were treated like a criminal, and he was a dangerous war criminal under English law then, it would certainly negatively affect the American psyche. In this regard, the claim that President Franjo Tudjman was one of the conspirators and criminals is particularly unpleasant, and to some extent distasteful. It's actually an indirect accusation of a person who can no longer defend himself, and that is, although legally possible, ethically problematic. So in a whole series of correspondence that I'm saying later, I'm only going to mention some possible implications of negative judgments against, for two criminal enterprise. The first is the criminal enterprise of ethnic cleansing, which in terms of classical international criminal law means genocide of the Serb population in Croatia, according to Professor Damascus, means that with good legal assistance about 200 thousand refugees could seek material compensations from 10 to several, 200 thousand dollars that would break the Croatian economy, the state, etc. Another consequence is that the situation of the status quo ante can be created internationally, i.e. that Croatia is federalised later because it will be claimed that the creation of a unitary Croatian state is the result of criminal cleansing. It is even more difficult to conjecture when it comes to the neighbouring Bosnia and Herzegovina, because the war in Bosnia and Herzegovina has since the verdicts that Ante Djapic has quoted here and I wrote practically immediately after these verdicts, so the late President Tudjman thought that I received this information about the CIA and I received them only by careful analysis of the Hague tribunal's documentation, by the rulings Dario Kordić and Mario Cerkez and the ruling of Serbia's Tadic, the war in Bosnia and Herzegovina is treated as a special international conflict, and in that war, the Croatian military top and what is important for the HDZ people not only to accuse you, us and them and HDZ as institutions, as a political party, is treated as an unarticulated number of state institutions and an undefined number of politicians are accused of criminal conduct, creating not only large Croatian citizens but also of the conduct of ethnic cleansing and Croatian inhabitants. In that sense, we have two options. First of all, we've got some pretty good paperwork. I'm afraid, Professor. Josipovic is best aware of how difficult this is, it is not difficult to fight for the institution of the amica girliae or a friend of the court. It's a lot harder to find real advocates. I won't mention names, you'll notice that the people who defended our men in The Hague, who got 45 years of dungeons, are at the same time lawyers of Severini and I don't know who else, even that American. It's an absurd situation. And secondly, the activities towards the Security Council are even more difficult work. There are few people in Croatia who know something about this, and in this sense I am concluding with the proposal to Ivo Sanader. We can all and want to co-operate, Milinović listen, but cooperation assumes not to be tied up even though I would relate to you there, but to co-operation requires that intellectual rights be respected by the holder of the initiative and real resources regardless of whether someone in the SDP is such as Josipovic or Ivo Šimonović who could do a lot of things about it either Darko Bekic or Mario Nobilo or if you will allow me to be the only one who may have seen the cards on the division of Bosnia, Slaven Letica. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15589	Thank you very much, colleague. One rectification of an incorrect allegation. Dear Representative Marko Turic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15590	I won't give up. Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. The Honorable representative Letica listed among me a very good one with his discussion, an incorrect one. I owe it to a man to make it right. He said none of these proposed government people are witnesses of time. I don't think that's right, I'll only list Professor Jurcevic, a professor from Pilar University who is a volunteer of the Homeland War and Colonel of the Croatian Army. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15591	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Let's move on with the individual debate. Representative Ingrid Antičević. I'm sorry, I didn't see the replica. It'll be as if you've been holding a bench. Here you go, my colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15592	Well, I'm glad that Honored counterpart Letica mentioned that the war in Bosnia and Herzegovina in international criteria has one treatment of a special war conflict, so the international community treats it as a specific war conflict and we have heard in this speaker several times from fellow MPs, not of course from you fellow Letica, it has been pointed out that Croatia has committed aggression in Bosnia and Herzegovina, so it is certainly not true and I will tell you the conflict in Bosnia and Herzegovina in fact one of the first conflicts where the international community recognises one natural right more than any other right, so it is a place where the provision of Article 51 is recognised. The Charter of the United Nations I will quote only the first part that says: "Nothing in this Charter touches the natural rights of individual and collective self-defense, the Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina self-organised, they founded the Croatian Defence Council, they defended you 16. Six. In 1992, Mostar was released by the Yugoslav Army, although the presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina was only 20. The 6th declared the state of war or found that there was a war in Bosnia and Herzegovina. The Bosniaks also did so, so I will quote a part of the statement... when it warns Minister Silajdzic and says don't take too much of Iran's help from 10,000 soldiers, so it was right to defend myself and to seek and receive help not only in Croatia, but in the whole world, the Bosniaks and Croats in the BiH used and freed themselves from the Serbian Yugoslav aggression.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15593	Thank you very much, fellow Boras. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Letica.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15594	Interesting even partially correct, but it has nothing to do with my discussion I did not say that Croatia has made aggression in Bosnia and Herzegovina as much as I have started my discussion with reverse thesis.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15595	Thank you very much. Let's move on, distinguished representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15596	Thank you, Madam Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues, dear Deputy Prime Minister. The departure of its citizen, or any citizen before the International Court of Justice, is not a national holiday for any country. But it is in the interest of Croatia to co-operate with the International Court and the International Court of Justice in The Hague. The SDP has always represented the opposition at the time. We are really pleased today that this is not the case primarily because of Croatia's interest. The truth is that only the change in this world is permanent, that's what Heraklo said a long time ago, but it seems to me that his thought today is more relevant than when it was created. Last year, specifically since the beginning of 2001, as well as the gathering on the Split Riviera and because of the case of Norac, and because of the case prosecuted in the domestic court and not the Hague court, the Hague topic easily burned down the Croatian public and deliberately rocked and purposely rocked the Racan government of the time. Later charges against Generals Cermak and Markac have caused, or today, the cause compared to previous charges just over three years ago in Split a significant difference, and it is good that this is the case. The then gathering, unfortunately three years ago in Split, passed in the sign of the song "Oj, Ivica and Stipana will eat you black crows", and the government is accused of high treason, it is literally said there or the puppet government will fall or Croatia will not be. The president of the HDZ then and today's prime minister said "I express my support for the protests of Croatian citizens, which express disdain with the moves of the current policy and government, I publicly called on the party's membership to join the protests in Split and Osijek. Congratulations to the organizers. No, Croatia cannot accept these accusations and we cannot act on them. It is completely unacceptable charges against both General Gotovina and Croatia as a whole. The HDZ is on the stand that the government should not have acted under the arrest order of the International Criminal Court in The Hague but rather remained firmly on the stand that they were unacceptable and all taken and completely rejected in this respect by the arrest warrant. We are firmly convinced that we should not have acted on charges because on this point Croatia's history, with this and the Croatian future and the state, defends itself, and there is the only difference between you and us.". I'm glad there's no difference here today. I mean, Mr. Sanader said, "I don't think we should talk to the Hague tribunal, we should talk to the Security Council." It is also said, or Mr Sanader said then, "Today there is a conflict between the Split Riva against the authorities that misunderstood what it brought to her on January 3rd". And he also said that if he had to go to Jelacic's place. In public already, all these events that were already rolling in Croatia mentioned almost a coup. In the summer of that year, indictments against General Gotovina and Rahim Ademi arrived, the National Assembly even held an extraordinary session for this reason, even the government's trust in what it does and how it does, while Ivica Racan wrote Charlie del Ponte about the unacceptable parts of the indictment. However, sometime at the same time, Mr Sanader said in an interview that HDZ would always firmly represent the position that no generals should be extradited on the basis of such charges. At the time HDZ spoke of the need to amend the Constitutional Law on Co-operation with the Hague Court, the Homeland War was criminalised, and it was charged directly with the Hague court and the then government. Mr Hebrang said in an interview in "Free Dalmatia" that the criminalisation of the Homeland War is the acceptance of shameful charges against Gotovina and Ademia, which also mentions President Tudjman and leads to a link to war crimes. Then Mr. Ademi voluntarily responded to the Hague court's call, and it wasn't so much after that by the opposition at all. Sanader also said that Croatia was the one today the prime minister reiterated, and that is true, that Croatia was just one of the main advocates to establish the Hague court, but then while in opposition, he explained why he did it and why the HDZ was then for the founding of the Hague court, because it says when no one thought that the Hague could press charges... Today, of course, we say differently, that unfortunately everyone in the work is capable of committing a crime, but what was then said by the Supreme Court that the Croats could not commit a crime has aroused both the European and the world's public and, of course, made a very large complication for the entire country, which is thus led into isolation. Today we're talking, and that's good, we've given guarantees, and I'm really sorry for the people in trouble just because it doesn't seem like it's from the highest spiritual authority, that in every way, people are being helped in any way to avoid the spirit, no matter what the outcome is going to be. We've given guarantees, and it's good that these guarantees are given, but we're really asking a question here, and maybe that's what the most public is asking of these discussions, how many of these guarantees have coverage of how credible they are, that's the question that needs to be discussed here. We hope those guarantees are safe, they have bigger coverage than those election HDZ guarantee cards. At that time, when HDZ was in opposition, according to these protests, books were written, stands were organised, so other than meetings. Signs were collected, petitions, chains tied up, guards were being guarded, so thank God there's nothing left. The truth only defends itself before The Hague Court, that's what we were saying then, that's what we're saying and now, it's good to say it today and Prime Minister Sanader. But today it is said by those who said yesterday that sending any Croats, let alone the Croatian General, would be a direct betrayal. And now that we're saying that things have changed, we're being warned that that's not the case. So one thing is said, you might think the other, but then you should open it up and say it. The Hague was then equated, or was thought to be the Haag equating both the victim and the aggressor. But we must really take it but seriously from the heart and reason, that a state that is unable to meet its international obligations is doomed. We believe this is what this government has come to realize, because that's how it behaves. However, questions and abilities are being asked, and what have we done, in which case is this debate? The opposition supports what the government is doing. But he asks the question, is that enough? It is noted that the coalition authority, that the coalition government has reached a conclusion since 2001, that the processing of war crimes before domestic courts does not satisfy and that there is something that needs to be done. So it is this conclusion that the Law on the application of the statutes of the International Criminal Court and the persecution of criminal acts against international war and humanitarian law, which also concerns this matter. A significant novel of the Penal Code has been passed that defines just command responsibility. Which speaks of incriminations and aid to perpetrators of criminal acts protected by international law. If we had more in common then, that law would be in force today, so we would be stronger. However, what is objective, which government is more successful in this? Because this government is also saying it's doing everything it can, and we believe it. However, as successful as it was, it will speak parts, less perhaps than our words. For the time being, the irrefutable fact remains that during the coalition authorities a conclusion has been reached, laws have been passed that allow, strengthen our domestic judiciarys which allow the procedures conducted in front of the international court to be brought to trial before the domestic court. And yet thank God, for it may have been a set of objective facts and circumstances that no one had gone to The Hague and that for the time being..
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15597	Your classmates are out of time.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15598	...for six months there are already eight people, and maybe nine on the way to The Hague.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15599	Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect allegations, MP Niko Rebić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15600	Thank you. It is incorrect that HDZ organised demonstrations on the Split Riviera to destroy your government. The truth is, the people chose you, they thought you were worth something, rather than punishing the HDZ. But he never saw you as his authority and that's your problem. And you had a complex, so you were afraid and afraid of your own people.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15601	Excuse me, fellow representative, correcting the incorrect allegations, I think you've reached out to me? Is it?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15602	Well, isn't it a correction that you didn't get on the waterfront?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15603	Yeah, that's the part.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15604	Then let me finish.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15605	I can hear you wide.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15606	..that the people recognized that the wolf changed his hair, but the miracle never punished you in the first election.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15607	Okay. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15608	... and more in vain to say that this institute corrects the incorrect allegations precisely to replicate, and there is no force to replicate it, so the provision of Article 209 was rejuvenated by who knows which time. [[for the announcement, the speaker can't be heard]] I never said directly, in any way, that the HDZ was organized, but I said, or quote Mr. Sanader who said, congratulations to the organisers of the rally. I don't know why you're ashamed of these things now.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15609	My colleagues, I don't think you're correcting, either, that you've actually hurt the Rules of Procedure. It's clear what a violation of the Rules of Procedure, the article, and that and exactly what it is, say what it is. Let's move on. Next injury to Luke's representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15610	Thank you very much. The representative injured 209 and Article 214. Rules of Procedure. Since he insulted an entire party and only in the final election of 560,000 voters who gave us the vote. And if it's true that the train, I'm sorry that the wolf doesn't change miracles and the hair changes, then I don't believe that the HDZ has changed its policy towards The Hague.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15611	Thank you very much. Please, colleagues and colleagues of the re-injury of the Rules of Procedure, Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15612	Madam Vice-President, the Rules of Procedure and that provision of Article 209 have been re-injured. When you warn me that I have injured the Rules of Procedure, I think if every individual like the people is allowed the right to self-help, I will benefit from it if you do not react and use your options, but rather the obligation to react when the Rules of Procedure is violated. So, when someone uses a correction to an incorrect quote, anyone, whether they respond to it sooner or not, there is no excuse that the Rules of Procedure are already beginning to be respected.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15613	Thank you very much, dear colleague, your suggestions have been very helpful to me. Let's go to the replicas. My colleague Boras, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15614	counterpart Ingrid Marinovic-Anticevic claimed that the former government was doing everything to help the defendants, etc. I will take this opportunity here in this replica to remind only one document that adopted this home on October 17, 2003, so more than two months before the new government came forward, which is the conclusion of this Assembly in connection with the impellation in the case of General Gotovina. The conclusion is, and he wasn't brought for no reason. The Croatian Parliament obliges the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the other authorities of the state administration to ensure that all former and current members of the Croatian military and redistributive forces found or found themselves in the status of suspects or indictees of the International Court of Major Infringements, etc. in The Hague, as well as their lawyers, provide legal assistance and access to documents necessary for defence. Not only did the government not carry out this conclusion, but the process that was under way invested and the steady appeal of legal medicines became a power of power, and it did not act on this conclusion in the Gotovina case, in many others, or after the court's decision. Therefore, this document of this home shows the most concern and attitude of the government, not only to the defendants, but to this home. Furthermore, there is one more signifying thing, this conclusion has never been published anywhere in order to possibly and in such a way conceal itself from the public who are all the obligations of the government. So here are my findings, and I think this document best testifies to the relationship between the former government and the defendants in The Hague. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15615	Thank you very much. Reply to the replica of MP Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15616	The case was in front of the court at the time, that's what I answered and my colleague Baby. But it's interesting why you don't ask yourself, how much money is there, how much money you've paid from 2000 to the lawyer Rifkin for a page and a half of his work on millions and millions of dollars and they didn't give the documents that were so needed by Blaskić to the then and present Hague peer.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15617	Thank you very much. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Agent Boras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15618	Dear Madam Vice President, Article 214 has been injured. The answer to the replica really has nothing to do with the subject or article 209 of what I was talking about in the replica. So, completely out of the context of that. I was only talking about one document of this house, not how much it was paid to someone in 2000 or 1991, that mouth had nothing to do with my replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15619	Thank you very much, colleague. Correction of the incorrect quote, Zdenka Babić-Petricevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15620	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen! It is not true that the spiritual authority of this nation does not stand with its people. He stood, still standing today, will stand tomorrow, stood yesterday at the time of the godless communist rule, and when we believed from your ancestors we received no family, party ancestors getting beaten as believers.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15621	Thank you very much, colleague. I think we can move on with the debate. Representative Tonino Picula. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15622	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Madam Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs! Today it is clear that it is not possible to defend Croatian national interests outside the legal and political environment whose most important part for Croatia is the Hague tribunal. That should have been clear yesterday, but obviously it wasn't everyone. The Croatian road towards Brussels is determined by consensus through many stages of which the Hague stage is one of the most important but the consensus is not easily achieved around it. It's not in the recent past, I'm not sure it'll go any easier today. The relationship with the International Criminal Court has been a challenge to Croatia's international affirmation more demanding than any other problem. The government in which I was a member of Croatia's credibility on the international stage has been building co-operation and certainly not by rejecting co-operation with The Hague. However, not everyone on the Croatian political scene was equally consistent with the International Criminal Court. It's also no secret that our government's relationship to The Hague has been extremely controversial at times. I have always stressed that the relationship between Zagreb and The Hague will always mark traumatism. Much should have been balanced, primarily by the prosecution's ambition to prosecute war crimes with the government's obligations to co-operate with the court but to protect the liberating character of the Homeland War. Homeland war wasn't a crime, but crimes were committed during the war. However, when individual responsibility for the crimes committed was not determined after military operations, it was not long to wait for the Hague indictments to be dropped on the state and so on. The criminal character of its integration. Croatia has always had and will have a legitimate right to the procedures used to dispute the cases. It is necessary to repeat how and use such a procedure is actually co-operation. Co-operation with The Hague is not possible to depolitise but it is possible to remove elements of drama and theatre in this cooperation. So much debate on co-operation with The Hague is being deprived of the pressures of the manipulated public today is an expression of the greater maturity of Croatian society, will politics also show the results of this debate. Thinking and acting in this area should also avoid the restoration of the division of Croatian society. However, for an illustration of how difficult it is to have the right orientation, especially over a long period of time, it is necessary to repeat that, for example, the Croatian Democratic Community's relationship with The Hague is marked by obstruction while the party is in opposition and extremely cooperative when it becomes power to defend each other's interests. To be clear, this government is not a traitor because it is working with the International Criminal Court, such as it was not a coalition government that faced such and similar accusations of yesterday's opposition and various organisations that HDZ has given full support. The charges of treason and criminalisation of the Homeland War, which went to the expense of the former government, speak more about the inability of a single policy to settle its relationship with the Hague problem. It should also not be forgotten that during the 1990s, the Croatian government ignored crimes or minimalised them by Croatian forces paved the way for the Hague prosecution's ambition to compensate for the lack of co-operation of Zagreb in earlier years. It is estimated that at least 200,000 people died during the period of war aggression against Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina, and given the character of war and death, it is assumed that a huge number died just as the victims of war crimes committed. If the innocent victims of war are covered by the earth, they must not be covered by silence and oblivion. In addition to all the wanderings of the prosecution and the court itself since the time of the draft of 1993, it has been necessary to search for justice and to seek to punish war crimes perpetrators, especially during the period of various democratic deficits, in the period of increased national sensitivity and dangerous maximums that it is not possible to commit war crimes in the defence war. The International Criminal Court is one of the embryos of international law with a justifiable purpose of overcoming restrictions in the processing of war crimes before national courts. Moreover, the establishment of today's poorly mentioned permanent war crimes tribunal is a step further in the unstoppable process of global persecution of all war crimes. Croatia as a war victim serves the honour of being a party to the permanent court and a growing partner of the Hague tribunal. A few months before the end of this first phase of so-called. We are discussing the indictments against highly-ranked Croatian Armed Forces officers and the completion of the Hague court's work. Political qualifications in these indictments are a serious challenge not only to Croatian politics but also to historical science. When facing charges like these, we need political togetherness and legal effectiveness. Accordingly, these trials are an opportunity to deal with prejudices in the Homeland War but to determine irrefutable facts. In this regard, colleagues and colleagues, I would suggest that in the coming months Croatian diplomacy advocates the establishment of compensation mechanisms to compensate and moral satisfaction for all whom the court finds innocent. That is what I say by believing in the justice brought by both the Hague tribunal and Croatian courts and by, for example, by the case of the rejected indictment against the Kuprešić brothers. In addition, I would suggest that the Croatian Parliament also determines the remaining Hague indictee's inaccessible justice. If we mention here today the high responsibility of Generals Cermak and Markac and welcome them voluntarily to The Hague, which has greatly affected the perception of the new Croatian government and the international position of Croatia would be equally important from this high place to invite all Croatian citizens to do the same. The effects of this procedure should not be doubted. This would make a contribution to this partnership between Croatia and the Hague tribunal. Croatia really needs help, but it also needs to help Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15623	Thank you very much, colleague. The next representative is Mr Krešimir Ćosic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15624	Dear Madam Vice President, ladies and gentlemen! The unquestionable truth is that the Republic of Croatia has been working with The Hague since the start of its work, the HDZ government has co-operated, the former HDZ government has co-operated, the former SDP government has co-operated and will co-operate with any future government because it is a simple obligation and responsibility of the Croatian state as a serious and responsible partner on the international stage. I would like to say something about what is practically the political priority that we should discuss today, which seems to me to be the quality of relations, cooperation between the Hague Court and the Republic of Croatia, but not in the way that individuals themselves consider it, but in one way that is objective enough, it seems to me that there should be a full answer. The first and basic question I would like to say more about is how the Hague court judges. Does the Hague Court as a prominent international legal institution carry out its tasks correctly, professionally, legally and in any other respect. The fact is that certain political qualifications of the indictments, as well as certain judgments which have a strong political character, are worrying and warning that we really need to ask ourselves how the Hague Court judges it, whether it's just a court or in that court there are some other elements that are beyond what should be the sole jurisdiction and responsibility of the court. One example, I'd say, which warns us, and that's why I'm going to say specifically what this is about. Somewhere before the end of 1999, just before General Blaskic's sentence was handed over to my office by a prominent international lawyer. I will say for responsibility, for importance, because it seems to me that these discussions today are such a character that they have a historical responsibility. He was a respected academic professor. Djuro Degan, I asked him briefly then: Professor, as an expert, what do you expect to see the verdict of General Blaskovic. He answered me very briefly and clearly: for three to five years, and perhaps if he is lucky he will be released. Mr. Academyman Đuro Degan is a prominent international lawyer, lectured at The Hague and was involved in General Blaskic's defence process as an adviser at the time. After 15 minutes in my office, Mr... I asked him briefly, sir... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] what the verdict will look like to General Blaskovic. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] He replied: General Blaskovic will receive 50 years. I said, well, I don't think so, just before he was one respected international lawyer and he told me he'd get 3 to 5 years and you told me 50 years. Can you explain that to me? And he said yes, I'll explain. It's not an individual's political trial. It's a small state. That's the first time I've said it publicly here with full responsibility, and I can do it again, whenever it's necessary. And then that's the question that worries us. The court of The Hague. General Blaskovic received 45 years only a few months after that. Ms. Biljana Plaskic, as an ideologist and inducer of genocide, received 10 years. Is that comparable? General Blaskic was an ordinary commander who found himself in extremely difficult war circumstances that no one has ever tried to understand. Surrounded by blind attacks. And when it was spoken and warned that the conflict against Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina was attended by both mujahedins and not acceptable, aggressive and blind radical Islamic fundamentalists, then they were the inventions of HDZ. No, gentlemen, it wasn't fiction, it was a fact. And today these facts are increasingly visible when it comes to crimes in New York, when it comes to crimes in Madrid, etc. And that general got no less than 45 years. So, how do you judge the Hague court? So the political qualifications of the indictments against General Markac and General Cermak are alarming. They are talking about a joint criminal enterprise involving all those who took part in those days, those months in the defence of the Republic of Croatia, nearly two hundred thousand people. Therefore, this politically unacceptable context of the Hague court is something that concerns us. What does the court's methodology look like? It's disturbing. I was probably in a position as one of the first people to have to talk to the demands, then as deputy defence minister who then couldn't function because of the disease, talk about the charges, talk about co-operation. And I said very clearly to all the representatives of the international community, according to their respective competences, according to their attributes, Croatia will co-operate. But it worries that working with such a prominent international institution only a few months after the war ended in 1995, it starts with the "Storm", with the "Bliss" with the maestral, and I said the question of when the co-operation would move to 1994, when one such inverse chronological approach made me illogical and unacceptable because the question is whether or not the Hague indictments will come to a start. And will we even be able to when these Hague indictments are one day, perhaps after 10 years, they will be able to put together a logical whole based on them to bring the real truth about the events that took place in the former Yugoslavia until 1991 to 95. Such a fragmented approach where simply partial events are singled out without understanding the wider context, one day these partial events will be used by individuals to reconstruct the image of the Homeland War 91-95. That's unacceptable. And we are responsible for finding that fact and responding properly. And I'll say what I said at the beginning. The former government cooperated, the government cooperated with The Hague, but the truth about the Homeland War is not only the responsibility of the Croatian government, the truth of the Homeland War is the responsibility of many important institutions, the Croatian state that are inaccessible and this kind of Croatian silence is worrying. And I remember very well the last of my words with General Gotovina when he said if it's my fault, it's all your fault. Shut up and you have no right to remain silent. What I would like to say and warn, the institutions of many, especially those of the scientific institutions of the Croatian state, do not participate in the formation of the truth about the Homeland War and the truth about the Homeland War cannot be created without understanding the broader context and the truth of historical events in the premises of the former Yugoslavia in 1991/95. And I remember well that a few years ago, a respected man of the international community and well-intentioned counseled me. He said, Mr. Cosic, organise a scientific conference, a symposium, invite prominent international experts, historians, prepare yourself for a year, invite people from Belgrade, Bosnia and Herzegovina, all other places, start when it comes to the reconstruction of these events and historical truths, doing it the way all responsible institutions in the world do it. And unfortunately, I was talking to some people then and nothing happened and it's nothing to worry about. Therefore, we must today have the proper conclusions with the fact that both the former government and today's government and the future government have worked and will do everything they can, but that a large number of institutions that have little responsibility do not do their job the way they should. There is a national scientific programme and we've awarded awards for scientific work, but we still don't have any serious projects that deal with our recent history, and that's unacceptable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15625	Thank you very much. We have two replicas. The first replica of the respected representative Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15626	Mr. President, ma'am, Mr. Vice President, Minister, colleagues and colleagues. I'm reporting for replicas because it's hardly possible here today in a positive context to mention attorney Rifkin. And I think that's exactly what each of us should recognize as errors in leading the defence of the accused generals and citizens of Croatia. It is precisely that a lawyer has publicly told us that 50 years is normal to expect for the Croatian defender because he is being tried for Croatia, meaning that the wrong lawyer has been chosen. It was chosen by our government. That the lawyer did not bother to study the documentation at all and did not understand today's message from the Croatian government's president that the defence of the Hague indictees is primarily a legal issue and that it is an expert's job to work on these legal issues. We chose Rifkin who did not take seriously the work of the Hague process, who took very seriously how to collect his services, very seriously because none of the lawyers had ever taken so much of Croatia, and the result was 45 years. And then after that, governments try to correct his mistakes and the mistakes of those who hired him. And the mistakes of those who hired him. And I don't want to mention Rifkin today because it's an example we shouldn't repeat.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15627	Reply to the replica, respected representative Krešimir Cosic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15628	Mr. Linic didn't understand the idea of my exposure, and she was very simple. Compare what Mr. Rifkin said with what one responsible experienced lawyer like academicist Djuro Degan said. Three to five years on one side, 50 years on the other side. That's two extremes. There was that other extreme. We may have objections to Mr. Rifkin, but I'd say we can have even more objections to the defenders and that's part of the responsibility. And we can't simplify the problems. I was trying to say that problems have a broader political character that we, we would like, that we must want and be able to understand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15629	Replica, respected representative Marko Turic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15630	Dear Mr. President, representatives of the Croatian Government, ladies and gentlemen. What the esteemed representative Cosic was saying to me, and the esteemed Mr. Linic is now, because of these two men, the great acquaintances of Mr. Degen and Rifkin. This shows, these discussions are one degree emotional. It would be easy for me, I wouldn't answer for the replica if I didn't have a thought, I'm deeply convinced of it through this, this whole day that it's actually been a one-way away from the truth that's happened in these demanding, challenging years behind us. Why is it like that and how long will it be like that? Until then, we'll be nervous. I'll talk first until it's like that. It will be until the moment when we realize what we heard today, which is in preparation from the Government, and what is also an important party of HSP proposed and is working to create a documentary centre where there will be competent people who will make up all the documentation and in fact be one great logistics for many, both members and MPs in this House. And until then, of course, we will be serving small, small ruses to get in touch with television viewers and ourselves and until then we may be forced to read a reading that we are not inclined to read, and I would say hostile about the Croatian state. Here you do primarily think,... [[/The speaker doesn't understand, speakers speak out loud.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15631	Thank you very much, thank you, dear fellow Turic. Thank you very much. A fellow Turk, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15632	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15633	Dear Representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15634	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. In the past term, the Croatian Parliament discussed co-operation with The Hague seven times. None of these discussions were delayed due to an unfavourable political moment. They were all held that moment immediately as requested in the Croatian Parliament. Every time the prime minister was asked to come, to explain the government's moves, and each time the debate was both painful and partly unnecessary as it is today. The difference between these seven debates and today's is style. We're still having a much quieter discussion today. We're still discussing under different circumstances. As we discuss here today, there are no protests on the streets, no chains, no Condic, no associations, no threats to the President of the Republic and the Prime Minister. Why? Have the circumstances changed? No, they're not. Has the Hague court's attitude towards Croatia changed? It's not. He's exactly the same. And then what changed? The relationship between the government and the opposition has changed. And that's the only thing that matters is that these two debates, or those seven debates, are being held in a different way today. That is why this debate today, perhaps unnecessaryly, is becoming necessary and a debate on consistency in politics. We have several examples. The HSP, which from the beginning, from the first day to the day of today, took a principled position from which it did not depart. If we do not rush into the establishment of that court, let us not support it, we will not go well in that court. It's one political court and you'll see it's a political court. And they say that all the time. The parties to the coalition, the SDP and coalition partners have consistently represented one and the other. We must co-operate with the court in The Hague, we are in favour of this cooperation, but we are also in order to fight as much for the national interests and the interests of the defendants as possible. And there's HDZ. Eh, HDZ. Did HDZ change politics or did politics change HDZ? Mr. Sanader and Mr. Luka Bebić, the hard HDZ, has not changed its policy, and here I will accept it for the purposes of this debate. HDZ hasn't changed its policy. He's completely consistent, he's been saying one thing and one thing all along, and I'm going to prove it on just a few examples. First, he asked for a change of constitutional law, I can quote if you want, but those quotes were too much, it doesn't make sense. Prime Minister Sanader, speaking on behalf of the club, asked for a change of constitutional law. There's absolutely no way to talk about it today. He also asked for a referendum. There's no letter on the referendum today. He asked for proceedings before the Security Council, so we can't go to court in The Hague, so we have to raise the matter to a higher level, we have to argue with the Security Council. So why don't you argue today? Is the relationship to The Hague a legal or political issue? It used to be political, and today it's only legal. Finally, two prominent HDZs, Mr Misetic and Šeparovic, who claim that civil war was waged in Croatia in defence of their clients. Two prominent HDZs. So much for principle. I'd say there were other policies for the HDZ issue of The Hague. It's not bad. One party can take such a stand. In the end, such an attitude was taken by the HSP and remained firm, unwavering, moral to the end. But I also claim it for HDZ, the Hague issue a political issue either. And HDZ will seem to me, always do what it has political interest. Out of political interest, he attacked the Hague court and asked for everything I've talked about, out of political interest today, he's acting differently. This is consistent in HDZ policy, safeguarding its own political interest. Now something about the charges is quite concrete. They're embarrassing, they're extremely unpleasant especially for HDZ. Why? In addition to these indictees, President Tudjman is charged with charges against Petkovic and therefore those from the group and Herzegovina and the HDZ at all levels are literally the same as the formulations, and HDZ is accused at all levels of taking a criminal enterprise. What is important in these indictments is not accused of Croatia, the state of Croatia, and especially is not accused of Croatian people. That's good. You don't know how to call people, HDZ does that too often. And today several MPs here have been called upon to the people by claiming that they represent the people. Look, all of us here elected MPs represent parts of the people. Those citizens who voted for Mr. Luka Bebić would certainly never vote for me and vice versa. So, we all represent different parts of that people, and if we can talk about the people then it would be a summation of all these policies that such a thing can at all... You don't need to run from the truth. This debate must teach us that we must not run from the truth, that we have too often escaped from this truth, and the truth is, unfortunately, that in this defensive war, a righteous, just war, crimes are committed. That's the truth they were running away from. It is also true that those who committed them did no service to the Croatian people or to the Croatian state. They didn't do it. The truth is that they have cast a stain on a just, justifiable and heroic defense war, and we must face that truth. The next truth is why the Hague court was founded in the first place. It was founded because the international community has come to the conclusion that national courts will not be able, will not have power or will not want, there will be no political conditions to carry out their own trials and that is the truth. They had neither the strength nor the political conditions for these trials to be held in Croatia in time. If the Hague court had been implemented, it wouldn't have been necessary. None of these people would go to The Hague. The evidence is crazy. So you know how all the demonstrations were done when the indictment was brought against him, and if it hadn't been filed in Croatia, it would have been raised in The Hague as it was raised for other things, so it would have been brought upon these, and today God would not have torn him from The Hague by a father, not some policy of wisdom or wisdom. The only thing that was wise was to carry out the trial in Croatia in time. If that wisdom had been in time and in other cases, we wouldn't be discussing The Hague in this way today. I therefore welcome these four points of the government, which the prime minister has presented, I think they are good, that they should be achieved, should be insisted on, in particular, that the trials are sought to win in Croatia and that they be carried out for all that can possibly be expected of the Hague indictment, to be carried out in Croatia in time. It will also need to convince the HDZ electoral body that it is good and defence associations to understand that today's HDZ policy is only possible and that it is the only solution and that they would never allow anyone to manipulate them again.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15635	Thank you very much, dear colleague. Thank you, colleague. I thank my colleague. Thank you. Corrections to incorrect allegations. Dear Representative Emil Tomljanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15636	Mr. President, I would like to correct only one falsely incorrect allegation from an esteemed colleague, so who said Mr. Misetic and Šeparovic as the prominent HDZ argues that there was a civil war in Croatia. I think it's absolutely as incorrect as this prominent HDZ and I think that for the sake of the public you should tell here let me just two sentences next. That they are in the role of lawyers, so counsel in criminal proceedings, and that all that in the complaint for the benefit of their defenders can't say or point out is not political facts and are not the subject of this debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15637	Correction of the alleged honourable representative Željko Krapljan.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15638	I am correcting the incorrect allegations of a representative of the Stazic who is talking about principle and some kind of change. It is incorrect that Agent Stazic has some principles that have never been clear to me, and I must admit especially in the previous meeting, and I will have to remind him when he spoke in debates about The Hague, if he would say what those four generals are, so it is only 0.04% of Croatian military members. I don't understand how he then took care of Croatian generals I see now, so I still don't see the clear principles and attitudes of Mr. Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15639	Dear representative Maria Byte is correcting an incorrect allegation.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15640	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleague Stazic made several incorrect allegations. One of these is that it is only true and that the only thing that has changed is the relationship between the government and the opposition. It is not only true, it has changed that Croatian defenders today trust the Croatian government and therefore it is your surprise that there is no chain binding. And it's also incorrect as my colleague said it was a legitimate war. No, the war was aggressive and the defense was justified.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15641	Replica. Honorable Vice-President Luka Bebic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15642	Mr Nenad Stazic, HDZ, HDZ said 4, 3 years ago, etc., these are the only arguments Mr Stazic can make and sometimes misquote. It is not easy to submit the political successes of HDZ and the 90s and 2003s, 4th years and I understand you, Mr Stazic. In the 1990s, we felt so politically strong that we had not changed but supported Nenad Stazic to be the editor of Croatian Radio. Who would vote for me and not for Stazic, so he was an editor, like we voted for you. You can't stand and foam often because of government successes that are evident and everyday, it's not easy. And the people say that your friend is the one who can take defeat, this is the replica. So we are friends of HDZ Nenad Stazic because we have endured his editorial successes on Croatian Radio for years. I also cheer for Mr. Stazic today, and that doesn't mean that the same electoral body supports us, on the contrary, that's where we only seem to agree.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15643	The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15644	I really didn't know that you voted as HDZ on whether or not I would be an editor on the Croatian Radio, it's the first time I've ever learned from you, but it says a lot about the kind of policy you've had on the media and the freedom of the media. If you've decided as a party whether a small editor on the radio will do his job or not, then you've told Mr. Baby enough about yourself and thank you for this recognition, it's really new to me. As for the success of HDZ, no, I am not jealous of any HDZ success that means Croatia's success. You are the most successful so far, Mr. Baby, in cooperation with the Court of Justice in The Hague, and I therefore publicly commend you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15645	Okay. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, how many other registered representatives are there? 36 has MPs, is it possible for MPs to be modest in their debates, for example that some to withdraw, some to shorten maximum because a lot of things have already been actually made out, that is my one appeal, please now respected representative Ivo Josipovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15646	Thank you. I'll make a contribution to your appeal. I'll be brief. I'd say I got a few different notes saying you seem to be having a very good time here, and I'm sorry that such a court of public is what's going on here. I did expect to have a debate about who told whom so many years ago, but I thought that we would focus more on what should be tomorrow, which is how the Republic of Croatia will continue to lead the cooperation and how it will ensure the achievement of some of its national interests, the word national interest has been on the lips and I think, in fact, it has not been too much of an account. In any case, I should say immediately, regardless of the previous statements, the previous efforts, the organisation of this or that, I support the government's focus on co-operation with the Hague Court and I join those points that other MPs have also praised as a good focus. The belief that the Republic of Croatia is a partner and no longer an object of co-operation with The Hague will be based entirely on the fact that the Republic of Croatia is ready to take the actions it otherwise seeks to lead the Hague, and I personally believe that such a primary national interest is in the Republic of Croatia. Since that concern seems to be not particularly interesting, I, Mr. President, am giving up the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15647	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Ivan Bagarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15648	I thank Mr. President, and I understand the need to be brief, however, as a participant in the war in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and at the time, I feel obliged to say something primarily about the Croats in BiH and the war in Bosnia and Herzegovina, the relationship between Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina and that part of the aspect at all, on this aspect of these charges. Whoever does not respect the Hague Court, I believe that he is insecure, whoever was at least once in The Hague or a witness at least then knows and understands all of our people who are there, especially those who have already been convicted, such as General Blaskic, whom I claim to be, who I believe, who I know is innocent. As a representative in the Bosnia and Herzegovina 90th Assembly, so in 91s we sat down and actually watched Dubrovnik and Vukovar collapse, and we and the Muslim Bosniaks and we regretted it, but we Croats had no choice, we had to raise our voice, especially after the Yugoslav Army attacked and... We knew the war was coming to us too, we went to the Declaration of Independence of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and only with our intervention was it brought. Unfortunately, on the second occasion, because fellow Bosnian Muslims did not estimate that it was time for this and without that declaration it was not possible to carry out a referendum, nor was it possible to obtain international recognition from Bosnia and Herzegovina. Therefore, these are some of our great deeds or merits without which, without my hand then, which was for, Bosnia and Herzegovina would officially not be. When it comes to the formation of the Croatian Defence Council, then it must be known that it is the first defence unit to defend Bosnia and Herzegovina, which from the beginning has fostered both Croats and Muslims and others and was in fact the only defence of Serbian aggression. In the period until Serbs won about two-thirds of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and what remained of Bosnia and Herzegovina was primarily under the control of the Croatian Defence Council. Then countless refugees flocked to places like Bugojna, Travnik, Mostar and completely ethically changed the population structure in those places. It must be remembered that these people came without anything, wounded in the war, lost their hands with frustration and it was very easy for them to have a conflict, unfortunately that happened, and the consequences of this conflict are primarily the persecution of the Croatian population from those places because the Croats remained in the minority. When it comes to the Croatian Defence Council as the first unit in Bosnia and Herzegovina, then it must be said that we had no knowledge of the organisation of this or that, war in particular. However, we could not choose those who volunteered and defended Bosnia and Herzegovina and between them were 1.5 to 3.5, up to 3% of the population, or people who otherwise behave normally and civilised. In war, however, they cease to be and are beginning to be unacceptable unreasonable actions that they themselves are burdened with. But that was the result we couldn't control, so there was no plan at all. When it comes to Bosnia and Herzegovina and Croatia, I responsibly argue that there was no Croatian aid to Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bosnia and Herzegovina could not survive. That's what I think everyone knows. First, Croatia has internationally recognised Bosnia and Herzegovina. Secondly, not to mention, everyone knows, all the help of the sea, land and air went from Croatia or through Croatia. The exit of refugees into the free world through Croatian spaces and Croatia was only in this direction. The English give... and to their horses in the war. I really think it's time someone remembered what role Pag played, the island of Pag in defending all of Croatia, but also Bosniaks, Muslims and Bosnia and Herzegovina who were just over that island taken care of and found the free world. Not to mention the intervention of humanitarian primarily so the health care that Croatia was carrying out and estimated to be around 150 million marks, the dollar pardon cost that intervention to everyone in Bosnia and Herzegovina... Croatian. [[/the speaker doesn't understand.]] In Split alone, some 4,000 Muslims were treated during the war. Can you imagine an aggressive country, at the same time giving it this much help? Why did Croatia do that? The question can be asked, and other countries had an interest in Bosnia and Herzegovina, other international organisations. However, Croatia's interest was also to prevent as many attacks on its territory as possible, and it is also evidence that Dubrovnik and Zadar were destroyed during the war, but Split did not. And it's a well-known fact that it's not. Because..., or war upon itself received us both in Kupres and Tomislav city and in Livno and in all that space. Therefore, it was a kind of integral defense that was actually, which resulted in the defence of the Muslim population. Finally. The release of Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina through joint actions of Cincar,..., Bihač, Knin, Jajce, Mrkonjic, resulted in Dayton, for which Franjo Tudjman has great merits. When the deal stalled, he said that because of a few villages and stoners, we would not achieve peace. That's when everyone applauded him. There were also talks about the Confederation of Bosnia and Herzegovina with Croatia. Who's talking about it now? I found a quote from Feral Tribune, which compromises Franjo Tudjman, and it literally stands like this. So it's a transcript where Franjo Tudjman says there was no agreement on the division of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the talks were conducted, those talks I had with Milosevic, I had with Izetbegovic, even together in Split we talked. I said before, there are two options for resolving the crisis in Bosnia. One is a confederate, because if it did, it couldn't have been held differently, so Bosnia and Herzegovina could. Where these opposites of civilization are even greater. And it's the second division. It's no secret. In the end, it's the only possible solution. I'd say, unfortunately, Tudjman was wrong. It didn't happen either, because Tudjman meant the Croats? Today Bosnia and Herzegovina is divided on the basis of war-torn persecution... The population of Republika Srpska and the Federation, so Serbian and country with complete Muslim, Bosniak... [[/the speaker doesn't understand.]] in which more Croats resist despite these efforts, including the lack of understanding of the international community or the lack of agreement between us and the international community and each other. and from here I call on the International Community and Croatia to help the survival of the Croatian people. [[/the speaker doesn't understand.]] When it comes to sanity. The war hospitals we founded took care of everyone. Personally, as a doctor, I sent a letter to the Chief of Staff to work together, and I didn't get an answer. I also personally sent a document in which I offered the Mostar Hospital to use the Bosniak side, and under the supervision of the International Red Cross and UNPROFOR, we never received an answer. Can the state and the people be defended without a crime? Can you do defense without killing yourself? How? Is HVO even criminally... if it's like a regular component of the army and the Federation and... [[Cell phone, speaker doesn't understand]] and if it is the first to enter the defence of the people and the territory of Bosnia and Herzegovina. [[Cell phone, speaker doesn't understand]] If HVO is a criminal organization according to... if Tudjman is a criminal and they compare him to Milosevic, then gentlemen by that logic which is upside down and unsustainable equally so that he could compare Hitler or the leaders at that time of the Antifascist Coalition. [[Cell phone, speaker doesn't understand]] We say that there has been an aggression against Croatia. That there was an aggression on Croatia. If there was an aggression against the Croatian people in Bosnia and Herzegovina and Muslims, everything else is the consequence of this aggression. And if evil had happened in Bosnia between Croats and Muslims, yes, that's true. And let every single person who has committed a crime be processed. I have never heard a single order from any of the politicians in Croatia or from soldiers to do so, I have never seen a single written document. The Bosniaks are obliged to talk about this because they know it is like this and that there is no aggression on their premises, they know that today they would also be occupied both Sarajevo and Bihač and the whole of Bosnia and Herzegovina if it were not for the Croatian Army and the Croatian Council of Defense. If he wants Franjo Tudjman's policies as well. They also know that...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15649	Comrade Bagaric, please conclude.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15650	Here, so I conclude the debate by supporting all indictees in The Hague, especially those in space... Bosnia and Herzegovina, and I hope that Croatia will keep its promise and provide them with all the help the prime minister has given today. [[Cell phone, speaker doesn't understand]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15651	Thank you very much. My colleagues and colleagues, after my appeal, 14 MPs withdrew their applications for discussion. I'm still appealing. And now I'm asking the presidents of the clubs to try to agree on some common conclusions. Honorable representative of Vice Vukov. I'd like the vice president of Mr. Luka Babic's home to continue the presidency.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15652	Dear Mr. Vice President, honourable members of the government, colleagues and fellow MPs. I'm gonna maybe take a little advantage of the fact that I'm what I'm even... he calls himself an independent representative. [[for the announcement, the speaker doesn't understand]] By the way, let me say... By the way, let me say that I'm actually surprised that the authorities and the sentinels were distracted by the mind that all MPs and MPs are independent and that some of us alone are impartial, but that's a good point for another debate. So I'm going to use that status to say something that maybe strict pragmatic criteria of party political efficiency might not allow and that ultimately will bind me. First of all, I agree with the position expressed here by the SDP and other certain clubs and individuals based on the fact that it is not possible to give up its own political identity and personal integrity just to criticise a political opponent at all costs and on every occasion. If yesterday we held that co-operation with the court in The Hague is inevitable and necessary, of course, that we cannot worship those who think and do so today. It would be quite unprincipled anyway. The second is what many have talked about, so I won't really exaggerate on the fact that HDZ didn't mean yesterday what it says and does today. On the contrary, they also know far less informed than any of us here that HDZ has been yelling at the contrary by shooting down all weapons at the then ruling coalition and at its co-operation with The Hague. So also when it comes to the fact that politics in our country has in the meantime acquired some right for me never acceptable and accepted the right to deceive the public in terms of the importance of obtaining an election, and then we will see what with our promises from which it has certainly come and it is a generally known compliment that is referred to by the politics and attributes that are added which I would gladly repeat here. So, when all of this is taken into account, however, the attempt to make HDZ's policy in this and even in many issues, other issues are shown to be consistent, it is indeed an incredible exhibition. This item of the Parliament's agenda is therefore formulated so that it actually insists on the political aspects of the indictments against our generals. It is obvious that both the Government and some clubs and the Proposer, if I have well assessed, reject the possibility of accepting these political qualifications from the indictment because this would mean, according to such interpretations, the very survival of the Republic of Croatia. I don't think so because the state as you know it is a legal version of collective and institutionalized sovereignty, the sovereignty of a people who can't be threatened, so... And people the purpose of the hierarchy of power went to prison. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Let's just think of a case like Nixon that I don't discuss it too much. The case did not weaken America, nor did it fail, but rather, the case strengthened the reputation of US legal and political institutions. Thus, the story of jeopardizing sovereignty and the reputation of the Republic of Croatia is trying to save itself from a historical condemnation of just one policy and that is what is really a long-term threat to both the reputation and future of the Republic of Croatia. So what he's trying to dismiss as unacceptable by nature of things is exactly what should be the subject of our interest and our debate because the legal aspects of the indictments, the legal aspects of the indictments we can and must leave only to the courts. So I'm looking at the court in The Hague, and I'm looking at it like this. In all of this, I think a relatively simple job will have lawyers. Much more delicate will be the task of politicians and our most important long-term, and therefore the most difficult part of the work will remain for future generation breeders because they will be put to work to extract our consciousness from the claustrophylic world of unquestionable truths that have been buried in our overall worldview, because politics, ladies and gentlemen, which we most often accuse of everything is just consequences. Before politics, even in a literal chronological sense, there is something that is deeply embedded in our consciousness, which could also be called national political philosophy, the moral premises that were at the mere level, which we have witnessed in the general belief that we are a righteous people, that we cannot commit crimes so that God himself is on our side, which every Christian must sound like a barbaric brasphemia. In practice, all of this meant that we actually had an articulation of a kind of morale that had preamnested a crime, and that's what I think our main problem is that I won't agree with others to be resolved in The Hague even though the final judgments seem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15653	I thank Mr. Agent Vica Vukova. And now we have two corrections of incorrect allegations. The first is Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15654	Mr. Vice President, unfortunately, there are a lot of incorrect allegations, and I'm only going to correct two. Firstly, it is not about any attempt to demonstrate the consistency of HDZ policy because HDZ was and will remain consistent in all key issues of national interest. And secondly, you're not a non-partisan candidate. Say it out loud... A non-party candidate from the SDP list, that's true. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15655	Okay, this wasn't exactly a correction to an incorrect quote. And now the correction of Mrs. Ivana Sučec-Trakostanec's incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15656	Mr. Vice President, my colleague Vukov said that HDZ was only important to us to win the election, then we will easily and how incorrect it would be. Therefore, HDZ has won elections for other reasons and will keep its promises. And of course, I have to add from the opposition. He may not be party to the SDP but is on the side of the SDP and could not be kidnapped by the HDZ from that repercussion, therefore.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15657	It's not a correction to an incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15658	Just an addition to the correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15659	It is not a correction to an incorrect quote and no one is concerned whether Mr. Vice Vukov is in this party or that party or independent, therefore there is no need for a comment here. Please, don't make that kind of thing happen to correct an incorrect allegation. The word has an agent, Joseph Leko.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15660	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Vlad's representatives, colleagues and fellow MPs! I'm really going to try to say my politics in a few sentences. I was absolutely convinced that the debate under the political aspects of the indictments would strengthen the Republic of Croatia in its performance before the International Community so that it could defend Croatia's national interests and state-of-the-art interests. But colleagues and colleagues, I leave the court to voters and citizens of the Republic of Croatia whether we have met their expectations to strengthen the position of the Republic of Croatia in front of the Hague Court, the International Tribunal and the International Community, and even if we add the position of the defendants, then I will be satisfied but this is less important, it is more important whether the citizens of the Republic of Croatia will assess this debate with a constructive, consistent and Croatia needed. However, I find it very dangerous that the defence of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia and Croatia and in the Hague depends on their political option or on the political better government of the Republic of Croatia. This does not go towards overcoming the conflict in the Republic of Croatia or strengthening the position of the Republic of Croatia before the international court or the international community. I can't accept either the thesis, it's not even true that the defenders were insecure under the government or they didn't accept it as government, coalition, former. What happened and why they wouldn't accept it? Are we going to spin that movie now, and I'm going to fall into a trap again, and I'm saying, "What's anybody doing and who's shining?" Can we talk about it or can we overcome it? We have to overcome it. I am therefore truly convinced that our country's democratic rule of law is equal for all its citizens and legal certainty is guaranteed to all its citizens whether they are in The Hague or in front of Croatian courts and that we will do everything we can to ensure that the trial is fair without political connotations of either the Government of the Republic of Croatia or of the defendants. That's our job. Respect for rights, the development of democratic standards strengthens the Republic of Croatia, strengthens the Republic of Croatia and less matters what HDZ said in the opposition. And that's what citizens know and so be it, let them know. Why are we going to repeat that? It is more important to me and I will now try to prove to you that the Croatian Government, the Croatian politics, has been consistent for four years in cooperation and partnership with the Hague Court. So, consistent, it is the strength of the Republic of Croatia. Please have these positions of the Government of the Republic since 7 December 2000, if you do not agree to protest. Starting with the desire by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to cooperate fully with the International Criminal Court, believing that all war crimes, regardless of the nationality of the perpetrators, should also be prosecuted by individual perpetrators. There's no dispute between us here. Efforts to show the actual picture of war events, the logic of the events and the committing of war crimes in the territory of the Republic of Croatia in collaboration with the international criminal court, something of Cosic spoke about this. Keeping the Croatian judiciary in a position to prosecute all crimes and war crimes. While maintaining that the work of the International Criminal Court should not result in equalising the guilt or amnesty of the aggressors. The work of the Council for Cooperation with the International Criminal Court is fully supported, and the International Court of Justice is required to read all 13 points. There is no change or direction in the government of Ivo Sanader compared to the government of Ivica Racan, and that's good. This is the final obligation of all governments of the Republic of Croatia. It's the law of constitutional law. And we all, not to swear, but to swear that we will obey all Croatian laws of a special constitution. My colleagues and colleagues, which is why I do not think that this debate is fruitful that it will not help the Republic of Croatia either in performing before the international criminal court or the international community. And one more thing I'd like to ask all the opposition MPs. Regardless of the consistency of HDZ policy, this is irrelevant to us. It is important that the consistent policy of the Government of the Republic of Croatia is and I ask that we support this consistent policy of the Government of the Republic of Croatia in relation to cooperation with the Hague Court. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15661	I would like to thank Mr. Representative Joseph Lek. And now Mr. Representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15662	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. I, above all, urge that we return to this topic because we are aware of the fact that Croatia has entered the scenario of the complete Hague tribunal. We're totally in the script. Why this is so, and we are indeed in a difficult and serious and truly critical situation because the foundations and future of the Croatian state are at stake because it is deprived of the right to self-defense in Article 51. The Charter of the United Nations. If we just analyze the charges a little bit, we'll see how they're based. And that the Hague tribunal has become what, has become an institution that is no longer a legal institution and that Croatia has become an object of abuse and the ultra-source of activity is facing Croatia. Why is that? In order to achieve command responsibility, the Hague tribunal has taken place since two legal fictions. The first legal fiction is... victims and aggressors. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's what they did. Another legal fiction that is visible from all charges and against General Gotovina, Bobetka, Cermak, Praljak, Petkovic and others who are still being prepared and who are also against the president of the late Tudjman himself, which is the legal fiction of a joint criminal enterprise. Politicians and military commanders. According to this criminal act under allegations, the political and military leadership of the Homeland War Croatian defenders as well as those who defended in Bosnia and Herzegovina, Croatia, Croatian interests became criminals, war criminals... And that is the full truth of the situation of the Croatian state. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And what does that mean? This means that each of our generals, the hero who opened the door in The Hague, gets 10 years at least by command. What does that mean? And let's not talk about how much it's done. It's not exactly done. We haven't done anything in the last eight years to promote the truth about the Homeland War, like we didn't do in the country, so we didn't do it outside. And we've come to a total subordinate position. We are obedient to the Hague tribunal's tasks and on the other hand we are not taking any action to improve the legal position of the Croatian state. But no legal measures to repair the situation. It says here that letters were sent both during the former government and for these governments. What does the letter mean in a legal sense? It doesn't mean anything. What's his legal weight? There's no legal weight. And this all that is done will not end well because let us be aware but in judgments, the truth that is not yet powerful to General Blaskovic and others is said to have participated in the aggression against Bosnia and Herzegovina. What will that mean if that verdict is confirmed in the second degree? Let's not even think about what these obligations will have to do with the Croatian state? What will it mean if only one charge goes through against our generals with this definition of a joint criminal enterprise and command responsibility? It will mean that it will not forgive us our children or our grandchildren. 'Cause what's it gonna be? Turns out it's a state that was created on crime. And these are very difficult consequences for the future of the Croatian state and therefore, Mr Mujacic, do not laugh but be careful because we have found ourselves in a serious situation. When we did, I warned on behalf of the HSP Club that new indictments would come the government told me to lie and the president of the state said I was lying. Unfortunately, that's what happened. What did he do in the meantime? He didn't do anything. New calls came in. The generals were heard as suspects. We know for ourselves that any of the generals who have been heard as suspects, and also civilians by this definition of command responsibility under these two legal fictions can immediately go to The Hague. He can go to The Hague right away. And that means he doesn't die for at least 10 years according to this definition. And what we're boasting about is that we've done something. We didn't do anything. We have to start over. In order to start over, we need to establish a Croatian Memorial Documentation Centre from the Homeland War. But it's only the beginning of the beginning. All the paperwork needs to be collected. It's supposed to be when the expensive paperwork is processed, selected and everything else. Then you need to lobby. Is that what we're doing? We don't. You need to lobby. So to all languages to translate and English, to send to parliaments. We need to promote the truth about the Homeland War. And to do that, we have to do it first. We have a friend out there, respected friends who were also presidents of states who could do it effectively. And then we must lobby both the political and all other prerogatives of self-defense in a way that the truth comes and that The Hague tribunal no longer becomes a means of political pressure on the Croatian state. I'll tell you what happens next, what happens to us? Every one of us... A step towards the European Union means another one, then the Hague tribunal and Carla Del Ponte always jump in. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] And now watch how we're in the script? It's very simple. It was said: “General Norac will not have to go to The Hague.” He goes to The Hague. Says Carla Del Ponte: "You won't have to go" and now comes the president of the Hague court who normally says that according to the rules, which means the other part. We're careful, we have two kinds of obligations. One is internationally recognised obligations which we have accepted, and the other are internationally imposed. International obligations imposed are in this part of the amendments to the Statute and the rules of the UN tribunal. And now what does that mean? It means he's coming back, that in that part we're really going back to the beginning. Now let's see further implications. According to our regulations, the Act of Service in the Armed Forces must be taken away from the rank of one who has been convicted with power for 3 years and more. And now we're taking so much care of our generals and heroes in a way that because we haven't been systematically doing anything to promote the truth, that we haven't taken what we had to do, that we haven't gone to the Security Council or lobbying, we're going to be in a situation that now is really the final moment to get into that, that part of it. The very fact that only two days ago did the government set up this advice that we had long spoken of should be established, it is said and it turns out that it was founded now for the sake of this debate. And that advice for him to start working, he needs time. He could effectively start working for only one, two years. Two years. So what's going on here now? You keep saying how many successes were made. We know that it was said that he would be back by Easter, the truth is not told which Easter. The situation is that we don't exactly share the fate of our indictees in The Hague that the government does, I know because I'm talking to some of them that exactly, because most of them who went to The Hague haven't even had a conversation with them yet. All they talked about was psychologists. As far as the documentation is concerned, the situation is the same as it was before. Many official documentation ended in private collections, which is a very dangerous situation, and our generals now in The Hague had to buy documents in terms of their defence. Buying on the black market documentation that was supposed to be official. And now it's said, "We have everything." We don't have anything. We're really in a difficult situation and what's done is just a hard start. We now need to take appropriate measures to prove the world and the country the truth. I'm just going to tell you one example of my daughter Petra's a student, she finished eighth grade. They had a theme called Homeland War and the teacher asked if anyone knew the name of the famous doctors from Vukovar? No one knew in class except for my daughter because she said it was dr. Vesna Bosanac and Dr. Juraj Njavro. Now this tells us that indeed the Homeland War is not known to humans or in Croatia, especially the world. Just get the investigators. For them, the Medak pocket is somewhere in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Or other situations passed by by by all our defenders, generals who appeared as suspects. They did not receive any of the documentation, and The Hague tribunal had all the documentation, so they were brought into rather invisible positions. So let us be serious, let us be responsible because more new charges can happen to us, and waiting and only legal means will not end well. And we can't do that, but we have to do everything because it won't forgive us, neither our children nor their grandchildren, because we know what we've been fighting for. It's normal for this one to be held accountable for the crimes, but for what it says here, it's unacceptable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15663	Thank you very much, Mr. Peri Kovacevic, and now he has the word Mr. Representative Pejo Trčević.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15664	Mr. Vice President, members of the government, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! The Croatian state is unique and special, not only in Europe but also in the world when it comes to co-operation with The Hague Court. To be more accurate in incriminating charges against Croatian generals from the Homeland War of Cermak and Markac. I wonder if this is what The Hague is telling Croatia that it was created at the crime scene, that the late and first president, Dr. Franjo Tudjman, ordnanced and established a criminal organisation, and that way we came to an independent and free Republic of Croatia. Does The Hague compare the state and military summit with other criminal and terrorist organisations in the world with such a relationship with Croatia? Absolutely all of this is unacceptable, but what concerns me most is the Croatian silence on all these allegations in The Hague indictments, but also the months-long silence of the current Croatian authorities. Today's Croatian silence is free to say worse and more dangerous than the Croatian silence of the 1970s. Mr Damir Cain said today in the Croatian Parliament, quote: “The Hague does not burden Croatia, The Hague does not judge Croatia. The Croatian public is interested in a better life.” Complete quote. Probably our colleague Mr. Cain didn't even read the charges against Cermak, Cermak and Markac. He thinks that it is best to ask The Hague to provide Croatia with a list as soon as possible and to have Croatia put all these people in a pair of planes and to close the case of co-operation with The Hague and that the nation is finally starting to live better. I wonder if such policies and attitudes help the Croatian state and do these attitudes help the Croatian government to make such a purely materialistic policy do they benefit suspected Croatian defenders from the Homeland War? In all the public opinion studies so far, citizens always demand consistency and clarity from politicians. People don't like double-faced politicians. To be honest, I don't like them either. Looking through the history of these last hundred years for the Croats have always been the pervasive politicians of that kind. From major political parties, and especially from their leaders, the public, and politicians expect responsible and consistent treatment. Croatian authorities and Croatian politicians must send a clear message to The Hague tribunal that we will not allow anyone to touch the foundations of the Croatian state, that we will not allow Croatian heroes, Croatian knights and Croatian heroes and defenders to be accused of what they should be honored and recognized, which is the defence of Croatia because the Homeland War was honorable, legitimate, defensive and liberative, and that it was not our Croatian generals Norc, Gotovina, Cermak, Markac and others would not be certain either. The Croatian people are steadfast and courageous and will not be dissuaded in the defense of their generals and defenders from the Homeland War. There is no nation that will give up its heroes, so neither will the Croatian people give up their most brilliant Croatian sons. Croatian generals, officers and defenders are not criminals but heroes. These are legends of the Croatian people, they are symbols of the Homeland War. By accepting such Hague indictments against Croatian generals, by keeping silent about them and unreservedly, I repeat my unreserved co-operation with The Hague tribunal by acting at times as a servant, the Croatian authorities have the impression that sometimes they are trying to disprove these heroes, legends and symbols of the Homeland War, all because they have to fill the ultimatums of the European Union that are pressing Croatia right through court in The Hague. We rightists believe that the Croatian state must show that it is consistent, vertical and firm and that it is proud to defend its national and state interests. The Croatian Army and Croatian police, therefore Croatian Armed Forces, and especially those from the great operations "Bleska" and "Storms" were proud, and this will certainly remain, regardless of what someone thought and worked differently today, both in Croatia and in Europe and the world. We will not allow anyone to make a world precedent and force the Croatian people to judge the members of their victorious army. In these last few days, on several occasions, I have read a speech from the Split Riva since 11 February 2001 by the current Croatian Prime Minister, Mr Ivo Sanader. That speech was also an inspiration to me to prepare this debate, and I can only say that I stand behind every word that Mr Sanader said on the Split coast on February 11, 2001. And if he or someone else is being held up to that speech today, I fully support him and I'm not exactly giving up a millimeter. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15665	I would like to thank Mr. Representative Peja Trgovčević. We have two corrections to incorrect allegations. First Mrs. Zastava Bozica Šolić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15666	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I want to correct the incorrect quote of my colleague Trbojevic that he read from his debate, I don't know if anyone wrote to him, and that's an allegation that said that this government is a servant. That's not true, that's what we're contesting in the government's giving lawyers all the necessary documentation, I'm going to repeat it again, for the defense. That Minister Zuzul and Minister Vesna Skare-Ozbolt were in The Hague on several occasions and will discuss the cases again Monday. Therefore, it is not exactly what you serve, and it does not help the generals to whom we honor and respect for defending Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15667	Thank you very much. It's a correction of opinion. Injury of the Rules of Procedure Mr. Pejo Trječević.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15668	Thank you very much, Mr. President. It's nice to meet you, and I expected someone to fix these...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15669	An article?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15670	Article 209(1) and (2) I was hoping someone would correct these incorrect allegations of mine, but he probably didn't listen to what I said until the end. These are all derived quotes from President Sanader's 2001 speech. And secondly, I have to tell you distinguished colleagues, I'm not a Trbojevic because it's a high-ranking Serbian army officer, so I have nothing to do with it.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15671	Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect quote Mr. Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15672	Here's what I have to say to my colleague. It's not true that Prime Minister Sanader gives up any part of his speech. So he confirmed it to us here today if you didn't listen well or if you weren't inside, then just to correct that incorrect assumption. It is also not true that HDZ and the government of Croatia give up their generals, warriors and heroes. So that's incorrect, that quote of yours is completely incorrect.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15673	Thank you very much. The word has Mrs Ruzdja Tomasic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15674	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues, please without correcting the incorrect allegations at the end. The debate on the problem and the relationship with The Hague court and the problem at this point is relatively late and is not really talking about a future relationship with the Hague tribunal but can only be talked about the political consequences and results of the Hague tribunal's work on the Croatian future. This late debate and the opening of a topic that is practically already pasture is actually an opportunism not only of this government but also of all previous governments that were unable to look themselves in the mirror and draw conclusions about the need to take clear views and concrete actions according to the truth. Despite the predetermined fact that both the government and the parliament had taken their views long ago, and as a result of strong political pressures, the same attitudes quickly and as necessary changed. However, this subject with full responsibility should be clearly and certainly expressed at this time. The Hague tribunal was founded as a kind of ad hoc court for only a certain historical moment, i.e. war in Rwanda and the former Yugoslavia. It is clear and should be pointed out that, from the aspect of the principle of fairness that the Hague tribunal is now being called upon, there is, in the very structure of the same, an obvious indetermination that raises doubts about the justice of the decisions of the same court. We are obliged to point out that there is practically no authority to declare a complaint and whose impartiality all parties in the proceedings have no doubt. In a specific case, the appeal shall be brought to the same court which decided in the first instance. It is precisely this circumstance that clearly points to the political character of the Hague tribunal. Of course there are other shortcomings in the formal structure and court proceedings. However, the competences of legal experts should certainly be declared, and the same shortcomings should be presented before relevant international forums. We should also certainly address the quality analysis of the defences provided, given that for now the results are actually catastrophic and we are faced with most of the condemning judgments with the most severe sanctions possible. I urge the government to form a commission to analyse the work of a lawyer. It is also to point out that the Hague indictees are tried in the legal regime of Anglo-Saxon law which neither they nor their defenders actually understand, thus one way disabling their defence, but certainly those lawyers have learned to wear a wig these few years, which is for every praise. I also point out that it is actually amazing and tragic that until today, political authorities have not formed competent commissions and institutions that would, on the basis of credible sources, establish relevant facts from the Homeland War and the political past of Croatia. The Croatian governments have already left it to others, and today we are all faced with the consequences of the same. For example, Croatia's history by Sava Strbca is being explored in Banja Luka and the Hague court takes it very seriously. In fact, the criticism of the Hague Court is one way to criticise the Croatian governments who were in turn frightened, confused, powerless, whose individuals dealt with trade in state documents such as the famous stenograms in the Office of the President of the Republic, which was actually a competition for who would deliver more papers with the seals of the state secret to The Hague tribunal. We have reason to believe and doubt that such practice is being implemented today. Therefore, it is quite certain that co-operation with the Hague tribunal is subject to constitutional law, however, the quality of cooperation especially from the Croatian public opinion must be such that it is informed of everything that is happening and this is because it is incorrect for the Croatian government to be powerless to the Hague tribunal as it actually presents itself to you. The Republic of Croatia has its own political and diplomatic capabilities and abilities but the problems of co-operation with The Hague court are being put on the tail of political events. It should certainly point out that only the existence of the Hague court is an apriorial mistrust towards domestic justice by the international community. The issue of the political results of the Hague War Crimes Court in the areas of the former Yugoslavia burdens our present and future, so I suggest that each government do not prohibit the debate on this issue for no reason, because it is our conscience as individuals, our obligations to defenders and political values. And in the end, it is also about the mental health of the entire nation. I would not want to show myself in relation to the court's actions that are being conducted since it may have caused damage to their defences. In the end, we wonder what the Hague really wants to give us, whether justice, peace, or perhaps some piece of truth, and the quality of these facts should certainly be considered. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15675	Thank you we have two corrections of incorrect allegations, first Mr. Stjepan Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15676	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, I'd like to correct an incorrect allegation that may have been the lady in effect saying that the government is competing to send as many stenograms to The Hague as possible. If this was the practice of today's government, it certainly does not work but does exactly the opposite, that all documents relevant to the defence are delivered to the defenders and to the one who needs them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15677	Thank you very much. Mrs. Zdenka Babić-Petricevic rectification of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15678	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Although my colleague Bačić has already responded to an esteemed colleague but regardless of the effect, or the effect, but I do not think it is intentional, do not claim what we all often say in the Croatian Parliament, but today it is something called co-operation with the Court of Justice in the Den Hague. It's not exactly, we don't talk about hunting laws, and it's important but not to this extent.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15679	Mrs. Ruza Tomasic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15680	Mr. Vice President, but it wasn't a correction to an incorrect quote. And I didn't say that the government was in trade, but I said that individuals were in trade with state documents, which is true and I didn't even mention that they were in this government. Please, nice. And even today, some trade individuals.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15681	Thank you very much. The Vice President of the Government, Dr. Andri Hebrang, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15682	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I still have to defend the honor of this government because yet you've told Madam Representatives that you're afraid to continue to send documents to The Hague. If that's the case, then I'll change my exposure because I wanted to defend this government's honor. As far as I'm concerned, we're keeping a tight spot under control. The documents are located in three places controlled by this government and be assured there is a huge difference in the management of these documents according to the previous government. Now I'll tell you why. The generals who are in The Hague are all my dear friends, and many of them are comrades from the Homeland War, and these are the people with whom I have been experiencing their tragedy not now these last few months when they have received indictments but years earlier when they have been indicated that they will be charged and I can tell you that General Markac has been called to a hearing by Hague investigators in the city of Zagreb, so here in Croatia that the Hague official had in the hands of all documents, General Markac none. He asked his lawyer in writing for a document here, from the former government, to put himself in the equal position of his defended Marker and to be delivered to him by these documents, he didn't get. Do you know who he got his papers from? From The Hague investigator, he photocopied and gave him documents. Now, since this Croatian government is no longer going to happen, but all indictees, the suspects will have at least everything The Hague has so that they will be in an equal position. We have control of these documents and we're extending our database to all convicts, suspects and their defenders. Therefore, any illusion of the similarity of this government and of the previous documents has indeed been excluded. But I'd like to say one more word here. As a representative of the government, I've been sitting here for 10 hours and I thought I'd hear some new proposals and ideas, because this government has been discussing for hours, days and weeks how to help our heroes in The Hague and those who have already been convicted, and those who are just awaiting trial. Unfortunately, we've heard here a historical lesson time machine, we've heard a play against HDZ, not a single proposal to the government how to improve your relationship with The Hague. I'll tell you that this government, unlike last very intensively co-operated with The Hague, that this government has so far had 34 trips to The Hague members in six months, passed over a whole term of not a dozen. That this government is in close contact with the families of our defenders, on a daily basis, that our defenders when they left said we were going voluntarily because this is now our government we trust. So I ask you and I, at the end of these discussions, to support this government because we still firmly believe that the defense will be free, we still believe that our generals will have all the documentation, all the logistics and all the help in the defense and that we will be able to defend the truth about the Homeland War and the Croatian State. So we better get our differences under the rug at least when it comes to our heroes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15683	Correction of an incorrect quote, Mr. Jaksa Marasovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15684	Dear Mr. Vice President, members of the government. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister Hebrang said that they were controlling all the documentation, which is completely out of line with what the Prime Minister said a few hours ago, that there are still documents that the government did not control and invite, so both soldiers and citizens to deliver this documentation clearly to the government, and evidence that this is the case, that it is not being controlled, and the footage that came out of General Gotovina's 6 TV meeting. The 8th after Storm, the day after Storm, came out practically uncontrollably.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15685	Thank you very much. The correction of the incorrect, in the opinion of the gentleman, he has the right to his own opinion, he thinks he has corrected the incorrect assumption and therefore we have nothing to say. Mr. Pero Kovacevic, correction of the incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15686	The incorrect quote is the Deputy Prime Minister that he heard nothing new today that the government should do. Well we said from HSP a lot, I talked about it personally. First, the center of documentation needs to be done, it's arranged, two white books have to be lobbyed, and that's the way to fight. Who did this? Nothing's done, my people. We're just getting into it.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15687	Mr. Pero Kovacevic doesn't see what he's doing, so he expects it to be done. Okay. Thank you very much. Mr. Anto Djapic has the word.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15688	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen, ministers and ministers. First, I am obliged for one more explanation to the Deputy Prime Minister, because we have no other opportunity to read part of Mrs. Ruža Tomasic's speech on the documentation. In fact, the criticism, I say, is actually a criticism of The Hague Court in one way of criticising Croatian governments who were in turn frightened, confused, powerless, whose individuals dealt with trade in state documents such as the famous stenograms in the Office of the President of the Republic, which presented in fact a competition which will deliver more papers with the seals of the state secret to The Hague tribunal. We have reason to believe that such a practice is being carried out today. So that's exactly what's said. It can be drawn from that, strained that she spoke to today's government, but I think it's more than clear what our representative wanted to warn her about. And speaking of the subject, I would then return today to what I touched in my opening statement on behalf of the Club, it is a ban on five Croatian citizens to enter the European Union. On my direct request, which is what the Government intends to do to stop the Prime Minister has responded in a political, diplomatic way, it is necessary to strengthen the international position of Croatia, which, of course, we in Croatia, are not satisfied, because the ban on the entry of five Croatian citizens without any conviction or conviction, and by justifying the principle of non-grat, I would say the Croatian public, and should not satisfy the Croatian government, therefore more so than the people who were at the very top of the Croatian security system until recently, it is also about the people who were both MPs and active generals of the Croatian Army, who are also senior officers of the Croatian Army, and finally it is about the people who are also friends of General Ante Gotovina. We have remained in the Croatian public an unexplained affair intelligence about the fact that the commander, the chief, or as the president put it... on the one hand and that the president of the Office has gone to National Security Advisor or as it is already called, regarding an affair about Ante Gotovina. The affair is never in the Croatian Parliament until the end. And in this case, it can be related to the context of what she said just before Ruža, that there were a lot of stories about this affair about documents, because I have one information, one of you has other information, and some of you are saying, for example, that Bagic has been removed and because in the process of the task he had to collect documents to Anti Gotovina, he also sent documents to The Hague that went to him and that the prosecution resented him and that when he arrived in Croatia insisted on changing him from where he worked. That might not be true. But when it is speculated in such a way, it is obvious that we do not have a clear situation as to why five people from Croatia are listed as unable to enter the European Union. And that's what I think shouldn't go smoothly after this debate, because we've been talking all night... what needs to be done to improve our position towards The Hague or our indictees in The Hague, etc. And that is why I believe that this is also a problem that cannot be authorized, through which we need to improve our international position, and then we do not have to worry about myself or anyone else that tomorrow will prevent the entry into the European Union if we say what critical word in the Croatian Parliament, or in the Croatian public, and about the work of The Hague tribunal. I see they have sensitivity when trying to speak more critically about what happened. The fact is that Pero Kovacevic said just before that, since 97, we have tried as a party after the adoption of the Constitution law on co-operation with The Hague Court at the previous government in 97, so at the Government of Ivica Racan in that period in the Croatian Parliament, we have tried twice to push through the Law on the Croatian Mostorial Centre, that this was done at the time by the first or second Government, that I do not repeat what it is, we could have already had a good part of that documentation prepared in these times that are ahead of us. It is not good to fool yourself, say it too, maybe it has started to work, and I believe it is not enough, it should be one of the top issues of the Croatian government much more energetic, much more serious. If we have the Law on the Croatian Centre and where the Government has agreed that this law is going to go into the procedure, where we are here, Minister Bishop, who we have talked to, that the government is also involved in this, and that this law should not wait any longer, it will catch up with us again, new indictments will come again, new forms of pressure on Croatia such as this now 5 people, tomorrow there can be 50 people, the day before the 500 people who will not go, who will be violated by fundamental human rights and political freedoms. ...maybe it is the governor and protector of Bosnia and Herzegovina, but where elected representatives can be replaced, where a nation from the position of... the people can create the position of a national minority, it may be possible there because of the web of these circumstances, but we believe that in Croatia it is unacceptable to cross the facts, because we should know as representatives what exactly is being done when people are prevented from going to other countries, so that none of the people who have been prevented from going to the European Union has any rightful verdict that could then be as some basis to disable it. That is why when we say what is proposed, we propose Mr. Vice-President of the Government to work even more intensively to collect documentation. We also propose a stronger approach to Security Council members. We propose to use all those legal means available. President Sanader said when we talked, he said this, and he hasn't started the process yet. The process began when all the arresters in The Hague pleaded guilty or not guilty. Everyone said of course it wasn't their fault. That moment begins the process. When only the trial begins, it's less important for what we have to do. So they're in The Hague, that's one story of human destiny. I was in The Hague as well as Dr. Bagaric. And I've been to The Hague, and I know how these people live, what conditions they live in, and for sure if they observe what's being said here today, I can't really be thrilled with how everything was going on here, but that's also the result of the full policy relationship of all these years to the Hague tribunal. And we here as a party that has had one clear attitude all these years just want to warn. There may be some words and sharper etc. But it's just in order for all of us to shake and not get through this debate to fall back into some grey and wait again for some new drama, some new indictment, and I don't know what not to say right now is drama and about Norco objective. We have some hope or some possibility that he might just give a statement there and that he will then return to Croatia but it is no longer decided by Carla Del Ponte but decided by the court and we have been convinced all these years and so has been created in public perception that she is the one who shakes the Hague tribunal, that she is the one who spoke about whether Croatia is working with The Hague or not. It is she who has assessed whether Croatia can enter, get a positive AVIS or not. Now all of a sudden it turns out that she's... With the Croatian Government that it no longer has that power but that the President of the Court speaks for the Croatian media conveyed that the Croatian judiciary is not very trusting and we have had to say some positive signals all these weeks that part of the trial will be left in Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, things aren't as good as they try to show up and things are serious, things don't have to be underestimated, maybe they shouldn't be dramatic about some things, but underestimated that any judgments are being passed from these charges to judgments like against Blaskić if she becomes powerful or against President Tudjman then that is, objectively, it's extremely dangerous. I respect the opinion of colleagues who have said that these are not the endangered foundations of Croatia. I understand and respect everyone's opinion but you will allow that after the Nurnberg trial that 50 years of Germany could not become a member of the Security Council. It was not tried by the German people, it was tried by individuals of the German people. So if it's on trial, it's vertical. If you're judging the head of state, chief of the armed forces, the deceased if he's being tried through these charges then we know what this is all about and we need to be serious and we need to wait not only for the start of the trial, I apologize, Mr. Vice President, but we need to work intensively already as if the trial is tomorrow and will begin. If we don't understand that then this debate really doesn't make sense. If we take this seriously, then this debate still makes sense. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15689	Thank you very much. The replica was reported by Vice-President Mate Granic. Arlović. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15690	Nothing, no colleague vice president... You're yours. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Well, look, dear colleagues and colleagues, today we have been discussing a whole series of issues related to the cooperation of the Republic of Croatia with the Hague Court. We give ourselves a lot of questions and problems to ourselves who said what, who did what or didn't do what, and I'm asking a really basic question if we can and want to do what we've concluded and brought. For example, it is now mentioned among other things by Djapic, and by counterpart Hebrang Deputy Prime Minister in his statement that no documents were given to the defendants etc. and I would like to remind you of the conclusions made by the Government in the third month of 2000 and the declaration voted by this Assembly in April 2000 which, among other things, says to meet the requirements of the International Criminal Court and the defendant of the defendants with the delivery of copies of documents, which may be relevant evidence for the implementation of war crimes procedures and are kept in the archives of the national authorities of the Republic of Croatia, taking into account the protection of national interests and interests of national security. All documents should be made available simultaneously to the prosecution and to the defence. Gentlemen, colleagues and friends are actually asking a fundamental question why we do not carry out what we have concluded, brought and voted if there are cases like this that were discussed by colleagues Djapic, co-worker Ruža and others. Secondly, I would like to remind you of a whole series of forms of cooperation from even to the fact that the International Criminal Court will present an agreement under which the court would grant certain criminal proceedings to domestic courts was concluded then and adopted. Now he's setting himself up at all... Then the time is running out. [[You can't hear the speaker.]] Please tell Mr. Cermak and Markac that they did not actually receive all these documents and were the government's representatives or those acting on behalf of the Government to deliver on the basis of the government's conclusions and the Parliament's declaration. So we ask a question of responsibility and... It's not being handled. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15691	Thank you very much. Reply to the replica Mr. Representative Anto Djapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15692	The fact is, our Hague indictees don't have all the necessary documentation the Hague tribunal has, not now. But why? Not because the government wouldn't give it, but because the paperwork on 50 pages is scattered, from the military police to the Intelligence Service to certain brigades. That's what we're talking about. We can't wait for the indictment to come to us, so let's look for, dig up some data they already have, and if they already have it, then it's a sign that there's been dealing, trading and sinking in the mud with those documents. Well, that's a fact. I don't want to talk about some names of people recently questioned in front of the Hague tribunal's investigators. When a man told me what happened to him in a nine-hour interrogation, it's amazing... Which they had in their possession and I had nothing. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And it's not really me, I can do it, I can't do it for the public, but I can tell you later to the vice president of the government what it's all about. So it's a fresh thing and it's not going in the right direction in that way and that guy has a saying that's one of the legends of the Homeland War that he said just ask if it's true. He just said that to ask if they honestly wanted to help us. I believe that we all sincerely want to help, and so when we warn that people don't have the documentation, it doesn't mean, I'll repeat, that he doesn't want to give Hebrang documentation. Conversely, he would dig it out of 100 meters of ground if he could find it but it was scattered and it is the role of both this commission and the advice on the documentation centre but must not wait, it must not wait because we are eight years late. We are late from the moment we agreed to the formation of the Hague tribunal, when the Constitutional Law on Co-operation was passed with The Hague Court and when Blaskic left. From that moment on, we're already behind and it hasn't been done much since. Just the other way around. It was dealing, selling stenograms, shopping, I don't have to repeat it anymore. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15693	Thank you very much. Now the word has Mr. Perica Bukic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15694	Mr. Vice President, honourable members of the government, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs! Croatia's government is a unique case in the history of human civilizations and a country that won the war in a way that is just magnificent and that we don't have any heroes. On the contrary, young people who hear about the Homeland War today, among other things, and from places like this, have almost a daily chance to hear only about crimes, guilt, accusations. For several generations, young people in this country have been almost systematically and plannedly bombed with their force of Croatian guilt from and around the Homeland War and no mention of the greats, the people to whom they should be seen. Moreover, not only have we won and our children do not know any heroes among numerous Croatian fighters, but we are in a situation that begins to look like absurdity to defend ourselves day and day. We athletes are particularly sensitive to the topic of the Homeland War and in this context when we talk about the incriminating acts of indictments against Generals Cermak and Markac, as well as all our other defenders, I think there are at least two reasons why I have an obligation to speak several sentences on this subject. I am proud to come from Sibenik-Knin County, a heroic county that was directly threatened by great Serbian aggression and to know how important this topic is to the inhabitants of our county. Another reason, as I said, that we athletes had the honor of defending the courts of our homeland, standing under the flag of Croatia and listening to our anthem just at times when our defenders fought for the sovereignty of our homeland, achieved brilliant victories in military redistribution operations "Blash" and "Storm" and thus our respect, I would say admiration for our defenders, our heroes that greater. And precisely because of our sensitivity to this subject, often we athletes are placed right-wing. Of course it's wrong, malice. Let's just remember writing when we sign support for the generals of our football players and petitioning a large group of our biggest Croatian athletes, etc., not to mention. Personally I will never forget the day ahead of that historic match of Croatian and Yugoslav water teams at the Olympic Games in Atlanta and in 96 when we arrived hundreds of calls, speeds, writings, our defenders, disabled Homeland War all with hope of winning. At the time, I had the honor of being captain of the Croatian presentation to take the boys to that game with only one thought, one goal, not to disappoint our defenders and to proudly present our homeland. Of course we all regret every innocent victim in the war but the fact is that the war was fought on the ground of the Republic of Croatia, that we fought a defensive war but that every crime has an perpetrator with a name and a last name. We were attacked in that war, we won that war. We're not criminals or aggressors. And I, as a man who comes from the world of sports, know perfectly well what opportunities are made for the achievement of the group and what individual responsibility no matter how many shared environments are achieved. And the qualifications from our generals' indictments are very sustainable and I mean extremely unacceptable. And final for the end. I am convinced that just as our generals were brave, determined and successful in the war, they will also be able to defend and defend, both the truth about their role and the very character of the Homeland War as a righteous, defensive and liberating one. Thank you. ... [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15695	Dear Representative Ivica Pancic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15696	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. And don't turn off the microphone. It's good that this debate has taken place to help the arrested generals in The Hague today. Unfortunately, although it was promised what she claimed, they were not allowed to defend themselves from freedom. However, I think this debate will be a small contribution to the democratisation of the country because the Polish tones were and that's good, we're different parties, we can't look at enemies but political opponents yes. The remaining events to return to that year in 2000, 01, 2002, were not and that was good. However, listening to Prime Minister Sanader, the question arises whether it is the same man on the Split waterfront in 2001. Some will say the power changes people, the armchairs are some comfortable and do not choose the means to reach them and are ready to leave from their until yesterday's beliefs if they have had them and abandoning their friends even though they say friends are in trouble known. But I don't think that's the case, that these ores that claim that they're wrong and that, above all, it's a political maturation of individuals and parties, even though the reactions in one part of the assembly don't quite confirm it. In any case, I personally believe that politics should be based on some principles, because otherwise it leads to pure pragmatism, and in such a naked, pragmatic policy there is no honesty, there is no honor. Maybe it's an old-fashioned notion of politics, and maybe that's why I'm in a more unfavourable position than some of you, but I don't think I'm changing because I don't think we should look up to the Camelots, as it was here some weeks ago or I'm going to add to hyenas. But let's leave the animal kingdom, let's get back to the point. At the beginning of the debate, I earned a warning from the respected Mr. Seks because I quoted the statements of the MPs at the time and now the minister would disagree with the president of the Croatian Parliament. It is not true that what was then said as parliamentary advocates that it is not now worth it. I believe that we are responsible for the spoken word, regardless of the function that we are acting as members of the government, whether we were parliamentary representatives or when these functions cease once we stop, when we watch ordinary citizens. Because the past cannot be overwritten and there is no reason for us to be ashamed of both our actions and our words. So I don't see why some of you in HDZ are ashamed of your party past, too, because sometimes in the former SFRY, significant party and state duties. If this was honorable, I don't see any reason to be ashamed. But something about the Homeland War and those quotes. So let's take the same quote I hope I don't mind. I quote: "If the commander of the victorious army who defended and freed the land is tried without doubt by both this land and that people, and I do not know how we will explain it to our children today or tomorrow."", Parliament, September 2002 then parliamentary representative, now Deputy Prime Minister and Minister, including Croatian defenders Jadranka Kosor. I don't know what anyone's gonna tell their kids, I know what I'm gonna say to my family when she gets a little older. The same thing I said 10 years ago, what I'm saying today, and that's how I'm gonna say 10 and 20 years from now. First, let me say, I don't think it is and I don't agree with those who claim that the Homeland War was a civil war, and a month ago we could hear it from the former Justice and State Attorney from, I don't know if those members are now HDZ or not, it doesn't matter in appeal to the verdict of one of their defenders. Well, I doubt that the members, as my colleague Glavas will say, are SDP because it's enough to read their names, and I won't, and we can talk about it if it's necessary and know it, so it will be known that they are not in the SDP, and they wrote in a complaint about the verdict in one of their defenders in the case of Gospić. I don't think some things can be sold, even if you're a state-owned person today, or if you're just an ordinary lawyer. But I don't know what the government's reaction was about. I think there's been a mistake. But what I think is the truth about the Homeland War and that's next. The Homeland War was a defence war, it was a Liberation War, Croatia was the victim of a major Serbian aggression in which Croatian civilians suffered and in which Croatian property was destroyed... The peoples... [[The speaker's off, you can't hear it.]] as a winning army. [[The speaker's off, you can't hear it.]] But there were things in that war that we couldn't be proud of and where we're lucky we sanctioned them in time, but that's not why we're still having this debate about The Hague today. I express my satisfaction that today, in these positions, Prime Minister Sanader is and I welcome it, and in these positions we need to build a further policy towards The Hague and add, and how much further we will continue to build our Croatia as a legal, economic and prosperous state, then it will be easier for us and perhaps even more pressures from The Hague. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15697	Thank you. My colleague Pancic, you were correcting an incorrect quote, in your own time, now you have commented on what you have been warned about. You wouldn't have been told a warning if you were directly disproved, but you were taking, denying under... correcting an incorrect quote something that someone had said long ago, that's the thing. Dear Representative Zeljko Kurtov.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15698	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. As commander of an independent military Skabrnje, commander of the 5th section of the Maslenica action and commander of the Zadar task force, allow me a few words. The late Aljoša Olic, the late Rade Maxan, the late Daniel Bulj, the late Slavko Soulj, the late Jergey Schmidt, the late Miro Kukin and the late Tomislav Kovacevic. Wounded Miroslav Motušić, Milan Stojanov, Denis Jokapovic, French Ives and at least a few thousand more of my fellow fighters, living as wounded and many unfortunately dead. They don't allow anyone personally, nor do you, Mr. Sanader, to be larger Croats just because you think so. While our faces were in the Croatian mud and trenches you were not among us, you were somewhere else I tell you because of what you said a few days ago that you would not allow anyone to be a greater Croat than you. We haven't calculated, we've already given as much as we can and these are lives. Believe me, there were all of us colors and uniforms and they weren't important parties to us, but the state and we didn't regret paying any price just to finally get it. You're giving us lessons from Croatia today and you're sending generals to The Hague without delay. Nevertheless, Mr. Prime Minister, for me, the generals and defenders who are possibly proven to have sinned will remain in good memory because of their contribution to the Homeland War. I'll always be happy to remember them because of their merits. Although you've been to some gatherings where they've been yelling "You'll be eaten by black crows", traitors, listeners, red and used many other expressions that I don't want to say here in the assembly, I'm asking you how you would feel today that I'm telling you that you're a traitor just because you're implementing the Law and because you're prime minister and you're obliged to do it. I'd like to ask my colleagues, Jarnjak, if that means that my friend Comrade Gotovina is not an honorable general because he didn't go to The Hague honorably and gave himself up. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15699	Deputy Prime Minister Mrs Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15700	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen. I called a little late after Mr. Pancic spoke, but I'll answer him, too, because Mr. Pancic doesn't miss one chance to mention my name in this House I don't know why it's an obsession or anything else. But when he mentions me and quotes my words, which, of course, is nice that you've studied phonograms and what you've studied what I've been saying, I believe he'll be useful to you for what I've said about the Homeland War. I am responsible for my words, Mr. Representative, as I was saying and thinking about it 8 years ago as well as now as Vice-President of the Government and Minister of the Croatian Defence. So, I think today as well as then that our generals, that our members of the Croatian Army are members of the victorious army that they were freed to defend Croatia and that, of course, is the Homeland War, the defence war is just and liberating. And of course, from all of this, I was then and now learning about how all of us who are in politics but usually have to act and treat Croatian defenders. And then I thought and spoke in the Croatian Parliament as I now think and speak as Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Croatian Defence that Croatian defenders deserve dignity, that they must not be spoken of by Mr. MPs as pronounsts, that they cannot be declared to be false persons with disabilities, for example, those who have no legs and are declared to be false disabled with their hands in the pocket and I think today as I thought before that they cannot speak of Croatian defenders of the disabled of the Homeland War as people who have gained their disability under peaceful roofs, leaving or coming under peaceful roofs, and today I think that they must react immediately from the authorities to the concealment of monuments from the Homeland War. We in this government react, and I don't remember, for example, that there was a reaction when the monument in Bor's village was defiled. I, as well as now, Mr. Representative, gentlemen and gentlemen, am holding the Declaration of Homeland War, which has been mentioned many times, and I still think that, for example, the test that the defenders have been tested by the post-traumatic stress disorder so-called. The famous MPI2 was humiliating to Croatian defenders, so I made a decision to abolish it. I'm saying this because Mr. Representative said we have to think and speak equally both in the position and the opposition and in the position of the opposition. I also think that, of course, a law must be made that can be implemented, the Law on Croatian Defences, because of relations with defenders, through the so-called so-called Law. We have decided in this government that these provisions of the Law are deleted to stop this translation to make a quality law, always before and today always about defenders the same thing about people to whom we have to show respect and gratitude for all this we have. And as for the meal of the prime minister, I must say that the Croatian Prime Minister did not teach Croatian lessons, the prime minister also always does and speaks the same thing before and today and tries everything to protect all the people who are most responsible for creating free, independent and democratic Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15701	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Honored Representative Ivica Pancic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15702	I could combine the correction of the wrong allegations and the violation of the Rules of Procedure or, because there's a lot here
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15703	Injury of the Rules of Procedure... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15704	Injury of Rules of Procedure 214. Not only were my words not corrected but they were given...... They've already been given... [[/The intruder doesn't understand.]] Okay. [[/The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15705	Okay, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15706	Okay, good. Some qualifications have already been given.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15707	What's the breach of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15708	Well, good.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15709	So what's he in? That's what you answered, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15710	The first thing Madam Vice President said about things that have nothing to do with the debate, which is political, please. What does the Law on the Rights of Croatian Defendants have to do with it and that it should be passed? Well, yesterday, you brought it in, or he's in charge. First I don't know.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15711	Buddy Pancic, be nice.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15712	But I don't know what's making her nervous.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15713	Don't make me have to tell you again. It's not about hurting the Rules of Procedure, there's no need. Get to the correcting of the incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15714	If anyone insults me
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15715	Who insulted you? So you quoted Mrs. Kosor and one of her debates from the Parliament while she was a representative, and she was, as vice president, vice president of the government, saying the same thing, and now what's the breach of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15716	And can I now answer what has been said?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15717	Well, you can, but under the firm, correcting an incorrect assumption, but not injure the Rules of Procedure. Go to the correcting of the incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15718	Thank you, sir... [[The speaker is not understood, not enabled]] [[/The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15719	Don't throw away your colleagues and colleagues. I'm running a session.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15720	But I don't know why she's nervous... She says why we should talk the same... [[The speaker is not understood, not enabled]] [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15721	What's the quote you're correcting, Deputy Prime Minister?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15722	I don't remember there being a reaction to demeaning the mention of the mark in Borov Selo, so the Deputy Prime Minister knew what was going on at the Ministry of Defense and what was done now would know that the reaction was coming and could be found in the archives. But I'm surprised or I'm not surprised by that vice president reaction anymore.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15723	My colleague, thank you very much. Let's stick to the Rules of Procedure. Now you're commenting, now you're commenting. Correction of an incorrect quote by a respected representative of Shima Lucin. My colleagues and colleagues, please don't throw it away because I'm going to interrupt the session.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15724	It is an incorrect allegation that no one has responded to the destruction of the monuments in Borovo Selo. For the sake of the public, or for those sitting here, and do not know the monument in Borovo Selo HDZ failed to rise until 2000. I raised it myself, or on my initiative, the board was put up. And when he was defiled, I reacted publicly. You can look at the public press.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15725	Dear Representative Miroslav Rosic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15726	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen, we have really discussed this quite a lot today, and it will not be the first time in the Croatian Parliament that we have discussed this issue. From different positions, opposition, positions, governments one, the other, but nothing really happened in all these discussions I have a feeling of what happened or moved when it came to co-operation with The Hague tribunal. First of all, as many times as it has been discussed so far, some, some assessments by the government, by different ministries and individual representatives have been made. There are two questions that always surprise me over and over again that encourage me to think. The first is the question of the judiciary and all those of the Justice Minister and all of those of those MPs who hold that this problem that we are discussing today is actually a matter of justice. And that's one judicial problem that can only be solved in The Hague and how the people listed in the indictments can only prove their innocence in The Hague. If they're innocent at all. It was never really clear to me how and what legal method these parts of the indictment could be refuted by, say, “In the course of and after Operation Storm and the entire time covered by this indictment, Ivan Cermak and Mladen Markac, others including Ante Gotovina and President Franjo Tudjman participated in a joint criminal enterprise whose common goal was the forced and permanent removal of the Serbian population from the Krajina region.” By what judicial method and by what judicial and legal methods, and how is this what I have now read to you in the matter of the judiciary? I've never been able to explain it to me maybe because my, my power of understanding isn't deep enough or great enough. Maybe it's something that's going to remain transcendent to me with a legal method, and what kind of a charge should be refuted by the judiciary? The second question that has always been interesting to me is the issue of all those from both the government and past and current and former governments and fellow MPs and MPs who spoke about the inevitable co-operation with The Hague court. Indeed, that inevitability exists, but then I asked myself, logically, what is co-operation with The Hague Court in the first place? What does this mean, “We must co-operate with The Hague Court.” What does that mean, “We are working with The Hague Court”? That means, does this mean that we are handing over generals, politicians, officers, soldiers whom the Hague Court or the Hague indictments are asking for or that's where our cooperation ends? So all our cooperation starts and ends in fact with extradition. Or working with The Hague means something else. Does this mean any active involvement in the preparation of these charges? Does this mean any active participation in the spread and proof of the truth that these accusations should, or the killing of the falses that these charges contain? I certainly believe that cooperation means this second and not this first. Not just extradition. And that's why we in HSP, and in 1997, personally, in the County House, did not mention one of the governments because it is entirely irrelevant at this time, to establish a Croatian memorial centre, a documentary centre where witness statements, statements from participants, data, places, times, photos, photos, statements, film tapes, videos and everything else could have been collected from 97 to today, so basically eight years. Then it could be actively involved in co-operation with the Hague Court because such a Croatian memorial centre would by the time today produce several history doctors, who would process this part of Croatian history, several dozen masters, scientific papers, white books, blue books, and whatever you want to co-operate with the Hague tribunal. But of course we've never done that, and every government has said it's a wonderful idea that they'll definitely support, but I can't accept this HSP idea now, but it's going to give one better and more complete solution. In this expectation of this better and more complete solution we are still and today and one of the next points of the agenda in this Assembly will be just such a Croatian memorial centre and its establishment. I wonder what the government's opinion will be. I suppose already in advance that this idea will be supported and that it will be offered to give a better and full solution for the fourth jubilee trip than the one we gave. You know, it's easy to say this was a fair war, pathetic. This was a defense war. We won that war. And what does it really look like, ladies and gentlemen, is what it's really about? Who admits it to us except ourselves. According to these indictments that say this was actually done, I'm reading section 12 of the crimes listed in paragraphs 1, 3 to 6 of these indictments were committed as part of the joint objective of the joint criminal enterprise. And you know what points one, three to six are? Point 1. — persecution, point 3. – reckless destruction of cities, settlements and villages. Point 5. - deportation and forced migration. Point 7. etc. etc. That, is it, in fact, are those parts that show that our war was just, defensive, that he was, that we won in him? Well, that's the charges. It's not just some people are being accused, it's not Ivan Cermak and Mladen Markac here. This is where the entire defendant is accused, if you add up all the charges that have come to date, the entire political and military summit of this country is charged. And that's why I'm asking you for the end, you know, my colleague Bukic is a crab, asking where our heroes from the Homeland War are, do we know their names? Many of them, I'll answer him. Many of them have died, many have been forgotten, and many of them, we judge many, and many and many have been sent to The Hague to judge them. There's a colleague named Bukic, mostly. I'm asking the government for an end and for all of you in the assembly. How do you actually imagine it, and how do you think that one country, one nation, can be in the eyes of some international community unscathed, unscathed if the entire political and military summit that this nation led to the creation and release of the state is condemned for a criminal enterprise? How are you going to explain that to who? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15727	Replica's respected representative, Dragica Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15728	Thank you, Mr. President. We often act here in the Assembly as if we were a court or prosecutor's office, and then we analyze the charges, we have something similar in the proposed conclusions of the HSP club, or we wonder how we're going to challenge certain parts of the indictment. We do not need to do so, nor should the government do so to a good degree. The evidence for the burden of charges needs to be proved by the prosecution, that's his obligation and his part of the job. And who confesses to winning the Homeland War in Croatia? We do not only recognise Croatia's citizens, it is recognised by all those democratic countries of the world that have recognised Croatia as an independent state that have assessed it as democratic and that it has the conditions to be accepted into many European and global integrations.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15729	Dear representative Ljubica Brdarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15730	Thank you. Here I am, however, going to allow myself not to respect the esteemed president, members of the government and colleagues and fellow MPs of the motion to forget about the past. Because those who forget their past and learn nothing from it are doomed to repeat it, and I wouldn't want it to my people, and I remember very well our close past because I come from Vukovar-Srijem County, which is also one of the most injured in the war, from the city of Županje, which is known for countless seems to me for days of general danger, at least it seemed to us. And I want to say again what some consider pathetic, and for me, it's a deep truth and I feel it with the whole being. Croatia has been and the winner is in the war. The war was just, defensive and liberating. It is known to all of us, but I will say it again, Slobodan Milosevic wanted to realise the schizophrenic idea of a great Serbia and commit aggression to Croatia. Despite everything, Croatia has managed to defend itself, it is a fact. And if you ask me, what matters to me is what Croatian citizens and Croatian people think, more significantly than what some in the international community think, because we know that they didn't want us all, but yet here we are. And I want to say one more thing. I find it ridiculous to try to dissuade Croatian defenders and us. If you could do that, it would be a pretty unnatural procedure, gentlemen, because you'd have to fight us with our fathers, our husbands, our brothers and sisters. You gentlemen would like to disagree with me with my only brother who is the Croatian defender and disabled Homeland War, who has earned his wounds in Mirkovci in the suburbs of Vinkovci by stopping the Chetnik aggression. So much for that. Therefore, this Homeland War and what is thought of it equally means to everyone. I do not allow anyone to have a monopoly on Croatia, on the Homeland War, on patriotism. Gentlemen, each of us, from the smallest child to the oldest person in this country, has the right to love Croatia and should, because there are legitimate reasons for that. Gentlemen, I love Croatia very much, not because it is possible to achieve a Croatian dream more miraculously than the American one, so when you're a truck driver or a conductor, you become a billionaire. No, I love Croatia as beautiful as it is, which has a rich cultural heritage, which had the brave people of great hearts who have defended it with that heart and weapon, and I love it gentlemen because in this country it is possible that from the stage when one of the favorite agricultural branches was picking chestnuts, and from the sporting activities of binding chains where the folklore wealth of our homeland managed to add songs such as "This edge and Stipana will eat you black crows", when it was trying to destabilise the legal elected coalition power, behold wonders only because of the implementation of the constitutional law that was voted here in the Croatian Parliament of the majority, you know which. When, in a very difficult situation, what came from The Hague, it was unbehaviorable, unresponsible, and irresponsible. I am happy to experience today in this Croatian Parliament the speech of Prime Minister Sanader, who signs every spoken letter. It's good to know that changes are possible. It's good to know that now the fact that in a war that's defensive, it's possible to commit a war crime. Yes, unfortunately, it's possible. And in that case, gentlemen, such crimes should be sanctioned. I would have been far happier if it had been done by the Croatian judiciary, not by The Hague. However, if that is not the case, we are talking about this problem, which is not only legal, but also legal and political. The legal part should be done by lawyers, the Croatian government should give full support and assistance to the defendants, and the prosecution should, as has been said, prove guilty. Doesn't mean they're being accused of getting the job done and the guilt proved. In addition, gentlemen, I believe that Croatia should be loved in the way the late Vlado Gotovina loved it. And in memory, I had his words left in front of that army when he said, "and if we're defeated, we won't lose until we're like our enemies," that's what this is all about. It is not important to punish war crimes for the court in The Hague, for the international community, but for all of us, for our children to send a message that the crime is unacceptable, no matter where it comes from. I believe Croatia will have the strength to do so. It's hard, it's slow, but one day we're going to face the fullness of our past with who we are and who we are, and I think the result will be positive for us, because in most cases we have nothing to be ashamed of. Until then, there is nothing left of what the government is already doing to the SDP, as we repeat all day, expressing its satisfaction that Prime Minister Sanader and the government continue where Prime Minister Racan and the former government have stopped, because this is the only good road that can deliver results. And I want to say once again, whether you like it or not, one part of the electoral body is choosing for the SDPs, we are citizens of this country as well as everyone else and we love it just as much. And I want to believe that all of us, indeed all of us sitting in this House, and all the people who are citizens of this country really want its prosperity and its improvement and I don't question you, maybe our ways are different, but I want to believe that our goal is the same. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15731	I don't know, I can't, and I can't comment, but I will tell you that the Constitutional Law in cooperation with The Hague was not passed by the will of the majority, it is known which, but was passed except for one party of HSP that they voted for it and the representatives of the SDP, for this Constitutional Law. I ask you to stay away from that comment when you look at me and this side and say, I quote, "You gentlemen would like to divide us with Croatian defenders." What is it now? Pancic, calm down. ... Mr. Pancic, I'm asking you to calm down, which would be fine. [[speaks out loud, doesn't understand]] Dear Representative Linić Slavko.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15732	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, gentlemen of the Government. We have been discussing today on the basis of the oral report by Prime Minister Sanader, who informed us that it was the government that organised itself to defend both the dignity of war and the interests of the Republic of Croatia, to enable the defences of the Hague indictees in court. That's what we got verbally today from our Prime Minister. These are the topics we're discussing today. We've heard not for the first time in seven times, for seven times. The question remains, is today's debate something different from earlier? And I'd say so. Much different in this House. And it's from all the clubs, except for some individuals, from all the clubs. No one has disputed the oral presentation of the Prime Minister and we all believe that the interest of the Republic of Croatia, our interest in learning and defending the truth about the Homeland War, defend the truth about the Homeland War. But also to organise the best interests of every Croatian citizen indicted by The Hague prosecutor's office, we do in The Hague court in accordance with the constitutional law of the Republic of Croatia. This is what we have for the first time joint all clubs found in today's debate in the Croatian Parliament. For the first time in the Croatian Parliament after this 7 debate, we did not return to changing Croatian laws regarding the issue of defence, the truth about the Homeland War, the defence of Croatian citizens before the court. That's what we discussed most of the time today when we talked about clubs. The question remains whether once we have concluded that we will respect Croatian regulations, that we will organise ourselves, give enough space in the debates, and how we will be better than before. We didn't. We'll hardly even be able to make specific suggestions. And why is that? To my disappointment with the representatives of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, although the prime minister has called on us to jointly defend the position of defence of all our interests in the court, we have here an uninterrupted emphasis, this is now the government that trusts those who are in the court and we do not need to change significantly, important that we have this government. She wasn't good yesterday, because she wasn't theirs, they didn't trust her, and that's why the simply defense was impossible. Yeah, they're messages from people from the Croatian government. So defend the interests of the Homeland War won't, the truth about the Homeland War won't, the interests of the individuals awaiting trial won't. Thus, the Croatian political scene cannot simply be united to help the defence of the truth about the Homeland War and each individual with our dignity, our debates, our political decisions. No, of the people in today's office, they're verbally saying that the government is taking over the defense in court and we have basic messages. They weren't the government of defense until yesterday, we were, we didn't have to do anything, and obviously you should be worried, you should be worried. And here we have people who also deviate from those important ones I would say the change I saw today. We don't need to change the law, we need to change our behavior. And did we realize that today? I'm afraid not, I'm afraid we're not because the government's representatives haven't changed their behavior until the last minute. And instead of today, we're dealing with what we're going to change in political attitudes, about the act of parliamentary as it was said to be friends, to inform all parliaments about the truth, to also take advantage of the opportunity to write books, studies, to simply organise symposiums in the middle of London, Washington, I don't know everyone who doesn't have a capital because it's part of an organized struggle and not to talk about the most important part of how we really try to change the mood that's evident in the judiciary. And to try to evaluate the documentation, not ours, let us try to find that documentation that meant aggression on Croatia, which really had an occupation of Croatia, the migration of Croatian citizens as a goal. Let's get that paperwork together, prove that we're different. We have people who know that. We didn't talk about it today, we didn't. Is there anything I can hope for? No, I don't. Divide between us, you know we're good because now we're theirs. That's an argument, a weak argument for those in The Hague. In fact, listening to what Rifkin is, which is this, which is the one, we expect political trials. I'm sorry, I'm scared. What we're going to do to prevent that political because we're talking about it. No, we're splitting again, we're dividing again. Yeah, that's true. We're splitting up again. All day today, the SDP has been telling you congratulations on the message of Prime Minister Sanader. Yes, defend the interests of the Homeland War, the truth about the Homeland War, individuals of Croatian citizens in court. We agree. For the first time, we are satisfied because we do not hear that we need to amend the constitutional law that will question whether it will enable us to do so. Today it was not mentioned for the first time after seven discussions. So we found a way but we're not satisfied if this government and the government of defense are responsible, so there's no need to discuss how. So we say what's that way, who's going to deal with diplomatically, who's doing this, who's doing it. We got into an argument. You know, I've got the conclusions. I'm a little disappointed. Well, there are far stronger conclusions in the past three years because Parliament's political assessments of the charges that give us the opportunity to try and do something about it. So far better are the earlier conclusions because the views of the Parliament, your previous convocations that spoke of what is unacceptable to the truth about the Homeland War, which is unacceptable in me would tell the indictments of those who are now on trial waiting. That's what we're talking about. Unfortunately, do you realize that none of us has one objection against the government, only today should be a debate as far apart from the government that will defend in court and only she has to do that job, organized in that political, professional, educational, promotional, which we all can. It was supposed to be today's debate, but... And that's the difference that's obvious. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Well, I might have some more. No, I'm not gonna talk about one thing to play with people's fates, play with each other and that's not good, that's not good, and that's why I'm finishing my debate. I support and the entire SDP supports the government's proposal on how to organise the battle in court, and the rest of us try to draw conclusions on how to organise ourselves in the promotion, the truth about the Homeland War, the promotion of people who have achieved their defense and try to unite in that part. But not because it's their government, that's what I was saying until yesterday, and that's why I was criticised.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15733	I would like to thank Reverend Linic. Dear Zgrebec's distinguished representative is coming. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15734	Mr. Vice President, representatives of the government wherever they are, colleagues and colleagues! In the previous assembly of parliament, we discussed seven times on the subject of co-operation with the Hague court and I did not engage in this debate once because I thought that the simple way and the atmosphere in which the debate was conducted was not at all necessary to say anything. Today, however, I have decided to say a few sentences that are offered by not being able to reach some common conclusions this time. Personally, I do not think there should be any such conclusions and because in the previous seven debates we have brought seven different documents of these three declarations, the Declaration of Homeland War, the Declaration of Cooperation with the Hague Court, the conclusions on co-operation with the Hague Court and four other types of conclusions. After that, I don't think there's anything better or smarter we can say. But this problem that we are discussing today is also clearly talking about what happens when important national and state interests are looked at and discussed in two ways. Once it's debated one way when you're in opposition and another when you're in position. Why do I say that? Because there are only a few topics in every country and also in the Republic of Croatia on which there is equal responsibility for political decisions and for every political party regardless of whether it is in power or in opposition. There are many issues we can argue about. We can talk about many subjects funny or less funny, we can also have fun doing what we do sometimes and today, but this is certainly not a subject that we should talk about in such a way. After the inaugural presentation of the Prime Minister, I was pleased that Croatia had become like all the democratic countries of the world that it had come into a situation for governments to change, to exchange various political options in power, and politics in major national issues and interests remains the same or in continuity. Why did I think that? Because I'm gonna pull one between what this subject was discussed three years ago. In 2001, when, among other things, co-operation with the Hague court demanded a vote of confidence. That's when Prime Minister Ivica Racan said. International obligations of Croatia also include co-operation with the International Court of Justice in the Hague, an institution founded by the United Nations and whose Croatia is a full member. He further said he wanted to stress that the government's co-operation with The Hague court does not mean that the government supports the indictments. He informed us that he sent a letter saying we went with a very sharp intonation. We have only objected to why we think it is right and should be objected and what is on the line of consistent continuing struggles of the Croatian government. In the follow-up due to prolonged exposure, it is our task to undoubtedly protect the national interest, interest in the Homeland War, values for which we fought in our common fight for Croatia's independence and for the values of the Homeland War without cooperation with the international community and with the Court of Justice in The Hague against which we will continue to defend our truth decisively. The facts we call upon and believe in this fight are successful. He said we were willing to help the defendants directly if there was a trial in The Hague, especially at points in which we couldn't agree if they stayed in the indictment. Then, then us, then he said, we'll use so-called. The institution of amicus kurija, it is an institution that allows the Croatian government to get involved directly in the trial process. As the MP and president of the HDZ responded to such messages. He replied: I publicly called on the party's membership to join the protests in Split and Osijek and to congratulate the organisers. He said no, Croatia cannot accept these charges and we cannot act on them. He said the HDZ stands at the point of view that the government should not have acted according to the International Criminal Court's arrest warrant in The Hague but rather remained firmly on the stand that they were unacceptable and all taken and resolutely refused in this regard to the arrest warrant. I don't think we should talk to the Hague tribunal, talk to the Security Council. This was a completely unacceptable position that he expressed on behalf of the HDZ Club and which even today, I think Prime Minister Ivo Sanader no longer wants to represent. I fully agree when Prime Minister Ivo Sanader says and crimes can be committed in the defence war. He said it in public for the first time. He said, Croatia is co-founder of the Hague court and as a member of the United Nations, it is a duty to co-operate with the Court. He told us today, our answer is to cooperate with the court, but cooperation must be legal and not political. He said: legal diplomatic activity, legal execution of the thesis of the Homeland War, so we have to do it. And he said: I sent a letter to the President of the Court about our refusal of unacceptable qualifications on the Homeland War and he said that we will also appear in this sense as friends of the Court. And we have issued assurances that ours, that they can defend themselves, that our citizens who are, must answer to the court can defend themselves from freedom. So I say that I am happy that in Croatia we now have the continuity of politics in an important state and national issue. I'm particularly pleased, Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Hebrang, that you said in 2003 everything must change from foundation to politics towards The Hague. I'm glad you did today. Then you said that HDZ would not join the invitation of the Croatian authorities and the chief Hague prosecutor, the fugitive retired General Anti Gotovina to volunteer, to join The Hague court voluntarily just a short time ago, you publicly invited him to volunteer, to join The Hague court voluntarily, and that is good, and this shows that Croatia has become a normal democratic state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15735	I would like to thank Dear Zgrebec's esteemed representative. Deputy Prime Minister Prof. Andrew Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15736	Dear Mr. Vice President, I have to correct the incorrect allegations again, namely, Madam Representative obviously doesn't read and follow the press and politics, the conditions under which we made the call to General Gotovina are a little different from those of you. In fact, we agreed with the court in The Hague and reached out that Ms. Carla Del Ponte publicly promised to defend her from freedom. Under these conditions which were passed on in her interview on Croatian television, I sent him a call and said, I believe it is honorable and very likely that he will defend his innocence, the innocence of the Homeland War, the innocence of our defenders since he has the opportunity to defend himself with honor from freedom. It's an important difference from the circumstances your government has made and under those conditions I would never recommend my friend Anti to come and defend himself because it wouldn't be free. That's a big difference.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15737	I thank the Deputy Prime Minister Hebrang. Correction of an incorrect allegation, distinguished representative Zgrebec, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15738	It is incorrect that you think that the Gotovina gene could not defend himself from freedom at the same time because it was also a charge against General Ademi who is now defending himself, or awaiting trial at large. So what you're thinking is not a fact, that maybe you're just guessing.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15739	Thank you. It is up to the Honorable Vice-President of the House Mr Mate Arlovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15740	Mr Vice-President, honourable colleagues and colleagues, this is one of the issues that is very important, very serious and it would be good if on cooperation with the Hague Court of Justice of the Republic of Croatia, and above all its parliamentarians, together with the tasks and objectives to be carried out, to exercise executive power, judicial authority and all others. Why? Because co-operation with the International Criminal Court is not questionable and it will have to... The question remains, how, in what way, with which objectives, with which tasks. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] To be able to do that yesterday was hard to achieve. I am looking forward to this debate today from the opening presentation of Prime Minister Sandar and beyond, regardless of the occasional controversy, correction of incorrect allegations, etc. For one simple reason. Which for the first time gives hope that it is possible to reach a consensus on this issue. And that factal consensus. Why? Because she showed today's debate that many have come through an evolutionary path to knowledge that is actually unquestionable. I remember for a long time, I've been in Parliament, I remember those times when representatives of the highest instance of the judicial authority, that I'm not talking about politicians saying that in the defense of the Homeland it's not possible to achieve at all... Especially not a war crime over here. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Today we have come to the conclusion that it is possible to achieve a crime against humanitarian law and a crime that may have the character of war crime and defence. But there is one other question in which we are also close to achieving all consent. That it cannot be questioned the right of Croatian peoples and citizens of the Republic of Croatia to defend their freedom, their territorial integrity and national... and lead the combat and other actions of the military that were to come to this issue. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And in this context it is quite clear that for the first time we have come to the line of distinction, everyone, about the fact that if a person is found and a responsibility is being prosecuted, and it should be established for us, not just for the international community, but for us, if there are perpetrators or persons who are suspected of committing a war crime, then we must, for the sake of justice, ask for it to be prosecuted and where luck is being prosecuted in the Republic of Croatia and not in front of an international court, and if it can't then, even in front of an international court. And what we must do certainly is that any claim, the thesis that came from anyone, even from the tribunal, which questioned the legitimacy of the Croatian people and the citizens of Croatia to defend their freedom and territorial integrity and sovereignty, which led to the questionability and legitimacy of military actions that took place in order to ensure that certain parts of the Republic of Croatia, which were occupied by terrorist actions of citizens living in those areas, were not actually able to enjoy either the legal legality or sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia, to free themselves. That is what we must create both with the legitimate and legal legal means at our disposal. And in that respect, I think we need and we need to reach agreement. But respected colleagues and colleagues, in such a situation, we must be fully aware of certain things. We can't leave crumbs to be shared again. These issues should, above all, be released and resolved by means of legal means before the International Court of Justice and so on, the International Criminal Court of The Hague. However, what it means to claim today and why it should be said to the Prime Minister: “And finally 4 of our government’s goals.” I immediately say our Governments all 4 of these goals I support even though it is not about its objectives. It's about her assignments. That's a big difference. I'll remind you that all four targets begin to defend the historical truth of the Homeland War. Through inclusion, the second goal is to assist defence through involvement in the process, but also to indicate suspects and indictees. The third goal, to help them, is to do everything possible to defend ourselves from freedom. And the fourth goal to transfer in the case of the processes in Croatia and so on, all of this is written by gentlemen and colleagues in these documents. In the Declaration of Homeland War, in the Declaration of Cooperation with the International Criminal Tribunal in the Den Hague since April 2000 and in the conclusions of this July 2001 Parliament. So until they change, while they are in force then these are the tasks of this government of ours and every one of our governments that will be until it's... and change. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] And I will quote to you, not to quote all documents just point 3 of the 2001 conclusions: “The Croatian Council condemns the politicisation of parts of the International Criminal Court’s prosecution and rejects the incorrect qualifications of the prosecution’s representatives in connection with... the regular actions of Flash and Storm’. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Furthermore: “The Croatian Parliament requires the Government of the Republic of Croatia to use all legal means available in the fight for truth and justice and to require that concrete crimes be investigated, not legitimate operations of the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia, which are led to the release of internationally recognised territory of the Republic of Croatia. The Croatian Parliament calls on the Government of the Republic of Croatia to continue co-operation with the International Criminal Court of Den Hague in the framework of the Constitutional Law on the Cooperation of the Republic of Croatia with the International Criminal Court adopted on 19 April 1996 in accordance with international commitments and these conclusions, always counting on the protection of national interests and dignity of Croatian citizens and Croatian states.” Let's just say in this point... We have to do this and we have to do it. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Or, for example, what should be changed in the declaration referred to in point 4 of April 2000 when it is said: “To meet the requirements of the International Criminal Court and the defendant of the defendant”. For the delivery of copies of documents which may be relevant evidence for the conduct of a war crime procedure and kept in the archives of the national authorities of the Republic of Croatia, taking into account the protection of national interests, the interest of national security. All documents should be made available simultaneously to both the prosecution and the defence. Or next,... The prosecution of the International Criminal Court, the conduct of joint investigations or investigations involving the Croatian investigative authorities, the investigative authorities of the prosecution. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] And on and on. To propose to the International Criminal Court an agreement under which the Court of Justice... has committed certain criminal proceedings to domestic courts and so on and so on. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Dear colleagues and colleagues! We suffer from the same xx-time topics being discussed again without actually sitting down to talk about what we did and what we've already concluded about the law? As well as the Declaration of the Security Council of the United Nations and the Statute of the Hague Court and the Rules of Procedure and, of course, our Constitutional Law on Cooperation with the Hague Court and, of course, all other documents, resolutions and documents, regardless of what time and for which government has been adopted? Because I repeat this question is not a matter of HDZ, SDP, these or those parties. This is our question, this is the question of our future and our children. Because it is not good if, on the basis of charges to be debated in The Hague, judicial institutions write a history of the Homeland War and Law, the defence of Croatian territory by the Croatian people and citizens of the Republic of Croatia. We must ensure that the dignity of the Homeland War is defended, but at the same time, we must process all those who, because of whose crimes may be committed, can be questioned by the Homeland War itself. And we ourselves or ensure that through cooperation with the International Hague Court we make it. But some unacceptable qualifications such as, which are repeated for example in the indictments of colleagues, Mr. General Cermak, Markac, gentlemen of six from Bosnia and Herzegovina and so on, we simply have to react to that. It is not only because we want to do it politically but also formally because we are obliged by the Croatian Parliament to do it. And those aren't the tasks of this government, then, the objectives. These are the tasks that need to be fulfilled and it's actually time for us to start asking questions. It's not about discussing the debates, it's about helping our government. We should soon have a agenda point of what the Croatian Government and the competent authorities, the judicial authority, have done to implement documents and conclusions of this Croatian Parliament in co-operation with The Hague Court. Not that cooperation would be broken. Not to put an end to it, but to achieve as high as possible exactly as we wrote in item 3 above that we always take into account the protection of national interests, the dignity of Croatian citizens and Croatian states. I think we can do that. We should have enough will, knowledge, and everyone in common to work on it. As the executive power, so is the judicial authority, and the legislative authority should create a document on which our own, our Government, may also appear before the International Criminal Court, and say: “Lord, I have other documents to act on, which are in accordance with the Constitutional Court, the Constitutional Law in cooperation with The Hague Court and the Statute of that same court.” This is the question that stands before us. And in this respect, I join all those who are seeking consensus on this issue to come together to protect the goals, interests of the Croatian state, Croatian people and all its citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15741	I thank Vice President Dom Arlovic. It's our guest, Ivo Banac.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15742	Thank you. My sad duty in these late nights, Mr. Vice President, is to bring in a series of things that many will not be overjoyed because some of the realities that unfortunately have not been overly represented in our debate. In fact, this whole debate makes me pretty sad because an incredible amount of non-criticalness towards our recent history seems to still be one dominant moment in our consciousness. I will not defend those like me here who see justification in the Hague indictments, I will not defend their patriotism. It's a distinguished colleague who spoke of the words of Gotovina that did better than I did. I will not praise the inconsistency of the current Croatian government here because in discussions by HDZ, there have been many contradictory words that actually deny what good has been done by Sanader's government since it took power and I think has improved our relations with the Hague tribunal. I'm not going to talk here about there's no fair and winning war that has no dark sides. The righteous thing in World War II will certainly not be denied by the fact that the Allies have destroyed a series of German cities, that the United States has dropped two atomic bombs on major Japanese centers. After all, all those who know our cultural problems at the end of World War II will recognize in that famous Goran song "Win", the anti-cipulation of everything that was negative in the victory of 45 no matter what it was just, no matter what it was good. I'd only be stuck on one subject that belongs to my face today, because I'm the only professional historian in this House. There have been a lot of words here about how central institutions should be created to tell the truth about the Homeland War. That's what ladies and gentlemen can't program. For many years, I received from various sides of various white, yellow, red, brown books that proved to be for example. the regularity of Greek claims on northern Epirus, the regularity of this or that situation in controversial situations. That won't convince anyone. Individual historians who work according to their conscience, of course, with all the possibilities of open research, can really say something about what is objective truth, but there is no book, there is no institute, there is no collective that will prove that what happened in Dretelli did not happen and we need to be aware of that. We must face the dark sides of our recent history in order to move forward with others who have equally dark sides in their history, into a new, better European Union where history problems will be explored impartially and without tendency. If we persist then we will truly defend what is true in our efforts for independence in the 1990s, and if we do so, we will pass that test that this country and all its citizens still have to pass after this debate. Just as much as I hope that when we vote on a series of resolutions that have been offered here tonight, we will be a little more critical than I could have noticed in previous discussions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15743	I thank the esteemed representative of the Bank. It is up to the distinguished representative, Tonci Tadic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15744	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Here's the debate that's really been going on all day, the assembly room isn't as full as I'd expect if we all swear that the subject is extremely important. And this is indeed the seventh debate, but the circumstances in which we are having this debate are indeed diametrically contrary to the circumstances in which the discussions were held in 2001. Thank God and St. Anti, memory still serves me well, and I can't remember that in 2001 there were all the delegations of Croatian defenders there, that protests were held in Croatia, that the top topic was any Hague process, any Hague move against any Croatian officers while we came to the stage today that the opposition must seek a parliamentary debate about The Hague for months to take place. It's just hard not to notice that difference in approach at best. The people are confused with such a change and we can feel it in any conversation with the citizens. HSP is consistent in that whole story and we really don't need to prove to anyone where we are or what we've been saying all these years. But we can quote here what individuals from the current government said a few years ago about the fact that the government has no right to treat Hague indictments and generally to charges against Croatian defenders, and today we are in a position not only to be diametrically far from the situation in which the Parliament was asked two or three years ago to be the government policy controller for The Hague, that it is not possible for anyone to go to The Hague without the approval of the Croatian Parliament, so today we are in a position that the generals went to The Hague without debate, here comes Norac soon, and I repeat the parliamentary debate despite our insistence we are working after a few months of searching. Then he swore that he would not give up on the defence of Croatian interests, that he would not give up on the right, in the insistence that there would be no one to give up on such righteous aspirations, that he would not allow the current government to carry out the world's judgment and judge the members of his winning army, etc., and today it is difficult for ladies and gentlemen not to see that the Croatian government is going through this peacefully and simply because this is supposed to speed up Croatia's path towards the Union. So if so, if this is the price of Croatia entering the Union, then I was not really celebrating in Ban Jelačić Square because the flag-lifting was certainly seen in The Hague with tears of eyes and those who had sent them to The Hague before. The people are confused, we can marginalize it, and how confused it is that the fact that an older man in the square came to me a few days ago, astonished by what the prime minister is saying today, and I'm really surprised by it and he tells me so I can't believe that this same man, Prime Minister Ivo Sanader, is saying one thing, a couple of years ago, he was saying another, it seems to me like the Americans have double-crossed us. I mean, it's really an illustration of a situation where people are more difficult to track what is happening in relation to The Hague, in which everyone swears that politics towards The Hague is the same, but obviously that politics towards The Hague at least as far as the Government is concerned and its leaders are not the same, but that is how the relationship with The Hague is the way it is today considered only possible. We believe that, of course, all this expensive joke aside, it's more than serious, we are inadmissible to any lying around this debate, there are inadmissible predictions of these charges, any lying down as well as the fact that the Prime Minister is not here tonight, and therefore we believe that the Parliament must take a political position on all possible truly unacceptable qualifications in these indictments. I will remind here of points 18 to 20 of the indictment against General Bobetko, which described the late general on his own as raising armed forces to attack the neighbouring state, as it was said in the indictment, you can imagine the neighbouring state of Republika Srpska's province so that he and these Croatian Armed Forces would carry out genocide and allegedly it was his only wish for the deceased. But it was written in the indictments of the Hague tribunal and of course it was due to react. In the indictment of Generals Cermak and Markac, the so-called The historical references cite the explicit existence of Republika Srpska and the alleged declaration of their independence from the Republic of Croatia. In the indictment of Generals Gotovina, Cermak and Markac, the late Bobetko, General Norc is constantly being prosecuted for some genocide, genocide of the entire Croatian state, genocide of our armed forces, these are political qualifications that we must manifest and which we must fence. There is no need to collect political points at all of this, but it is necessary to collect political consensus at very clear positions that we have proposed here in terms of our conclusions, which is that the Parliament rejects political qualifications by political means and that is all we really need to do tonight. Of course, to put government in charge of realising all this together. It was mentioned here several times during the day and the need for the Memorial Centre, this Memorial Centre proposed twice in 2000 and once in 2000, and all three times this Law had either failed in the Assembly or was not even included in the agenda. The fact is that by the international community there is a tendency of equating aggressors and..., the fact is that by the international community there is a tendency to forget the victims of the Serb genocide over Croats, the fact is that the great Serbs who carried out genocide, culture, ecocid, total destruction of Croatia were meant to bring all our victims down to the mere numbers and when you bring man down to number then he was truly reduced to nothing. So if he's doing anything else then at least he's working... on those victims because they were all people with a name and a last name, with careers, love, families, he needs to have that memorial cent. But this Memorial centre is even more necessary to have for the sake of Croatia itself, simply in order for all such disputes to be settled by the international community, disputes with the Court of Justice in The Hague will be settled however possible in Croatia. but also to preserve the memory after what happened for the next generations. If the Israelis can have... then we have been obliged all these years to do Croatian..., Croatian Memorial center and that is what is truly incomprehensible that this in all these years in the Assembly has not been realised despite the fact that HSP has systematically proposed it. And for the end there is often mentioned the concept of alleged defence from freedom. There is no defence institute from freedom and let's be realistic over them even if we claim that defending ourselves from freedom is actually hanging continuously... the sword of the Hague Court and any judge can launch an initiative to complete their indictment with some annex and that these defenses from freedom are gone. So, I urge all MPs, all of you colleagues and colleagues to support the proposal for conclusions submitted by the Croatian Party's Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15745	Dear Representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15746	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Vice President and Vice President. All day debate on aspects of political qualifications and incriminating parts of the indictment against General Markac and Cermak I particularly experience as a witness and participant of these brilliant operations Flash, summer, Storm, Maestral. I also experience them as my burden. I also see them as my guilt, but I am deeply aware that these acts were not committed by General Markac, General Cermak, or Gotovina or other officers who are being put on the stand as individual responsibility, and I would like to say that the legal order and the rule of law in the territory of the Croatian state later on, after the liberating operations, have functioned, and that all those individuals who have dared to commit any act of arson, murder or robbery have been sanctioned and that criminal charges have been filed against them. So I will repeat the report by State Attorney Bajic, which states that after the operations against Croatian defenders, 5400 applications have been filed from the Croatian military or police or civilians who dared to rob and that 2700 have been tried and sanctioned. I will repeat that it is a reinforced army brigade that is sanctioned and therefore lists the charges you say should not be spoken of or the political aspects are truly arbitrary, unacceptable and have no basis. But let us hope that such a justification will also cause the rejection of the largest part or all of the charges, and for this reason, Croatian defenders today do not protest, because they are aware that they have a different status and relationship from the Croatian government that makes every effort in every day, the clock to actually deny the allegations of these indictments in order to protect their generals and to work with mutual respect and understanding with Croatian defenders and when they always say that they are responsible for today's democracy, for today's freedom and for today's further life in the Republic of Croatia. As a witness to all these operations, I must tell you that arson and robbery in some situations have been planted by those who have fled by loading their most valuable items on trailers of tractors, trucks, and according to the direction of Milan Martic, who would throw it out of their airplanes to direct the team and team towards Serbia. I must say that you must understand once already and admit that your relationship with Croatian defenders has not been correct and has not been satisfactory and has now changed. So don't ask why there's no protest. Croatian defenders today trust the Croatian government, support it and support it to defend the brightest points and the brightest things from the Homeland War and to make efforts as these... or these suspects would not be sanctioned. But only in such a way that when there is reason in everyone then it can be respected. When there's a return to calling each other, when there's a laugh and a cynical laugh of individuals who insult themselves with what they did because the truth offends them, then it won't bring them anywhere. We don't support and we can't make these arbitrary and unacceptable accusations a little bit of contentment and I'm bitter to them and each of those participants of these operations should be bitter and secure. But there is also a way and how to legally justify the arguments that it is not and so we hope that the Croatian government will succeed and therefore we give it as defenders and full support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15747	We're moving on to individual discussions for five minutes. On behalf of the HSP Club, respected representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15748	Thank you very much, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. First of all, I would like to tell you that The Hague prosecution, at the demands of six of our Croats' lawyers from Bosnia and Herzegovina, has made it possible for them to wait for the start of the trial to respond that they do not accept and oppose it, has put two reasons. The first reason is a statement by Mr Mate Arlovic that Croatia was not an aggressor in Bosnia and Heregovina, which requires that the debate be conducted. And the second is the position as the position of the HSP not to recognise The Hague court. We confess to The Hague if it's going to be a legal institution. If the Hague court will be a political means of pressure on Croatia, we cannot acknowledge such a court. It's a very dangerous thing. As for the ruling majority's conclusions, the HDZ Club, the HSLS Club, the DC, the HSU Club, the National Minority Club, I need to comment on the club's behalf. Veli, a report by the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia is accepted. We had an oral report here. What was said in it, no one knows anymore. At least it was done next, that it was concluded that Minister Ozbolt's report was accepted because her speech was divided into everyone from the ruling clubs, exactly what the minister would say. Furthermore, it is said that full support is being given to the overall activities of the government of the Republic of Croatia's efforts to defend the truth about the Homeland War. What these activities have done so far are important activities, which are two letters. Two letters from the Prime Minister. We know what kind of legal force these letters are, nothing like they were from before the government. There aren't any big activities. We have only obedient co-operation at this time with The Hague Court, and therefore it is necessary to accept all those proposals by representatives of the Croatian party of law, because it cannot fight the political qualifications of The Hague tribunal. For these two legal fictions and for this part related to the command responsibility only by means of legal means. And we're eight years late. And now here, in further parts of the conclusion, you can get the impression that these are some huge sums of all the activities and efforts that have been achieved, and then they say again, that the accused generals are defending themselves from freedom. There's no institute. We know who the Institute is. And another thing, if someone's out there, then there's nothing to defend. Therefore, I propose on behalf of the HSP Club that the ruling majority of these conclusions that have been made quickly withdraw and vote for the conclusions of the HSP Club and take real overall activities and political and legal and other and lobbying, because we will come to an even worse situation, if we behave like this, boast about how the defenders are now satisfied, but they are not satisfied, how will they be satisfied? – how will he be satisfied? - when they were all accused of working genocide, of being in a criminal enterprise led by the late President Dr. Tudjman, let's not talk about how great a pleasure it is. So they're so happy, they just don't know they're happy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15749	Correction of an incorrect alleged, respected deputy president Mato Arlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15750	Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. I have to correct the incorrect allegations for phonograms, I did not speak at all about the war in Bosnia and Herzegovina, nor did I make a statement about whether Croatia was or wasn't an aggressor in Bosnia and Herzegovina, regardless of what I think about the issue. The fact is true that I was talking about the right of the Croatian people and citizens of the Republic of Croatia to defend their territorial integrity and their full sovereignty within their internationally recognised borders, and to this end, it obliges us to speak in a declaration about the Homeland War, which clearly and unequivocally in item 2, says the Republic of Croatia has led a fair and legitimate defence-freedom war, not an aggressor war against anyone in which it has defended its territory from major Serb aggression within internationally recognised borders. If it is about the Homeland War in its territory, within its international borders, then it is not about the neighbouring country which the Republic of Croatia has recognised. I'm asking for a phonogram I had to say it and I don't think my colleague heard it well and they didn't get it right. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15751	Don't go with the breach of the Rules of Procedure when it's not. I know it's not, I know it's very good. Tell me what's the breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15752	Article 209(1) and (2), because I was saying what was in the reply to Carla Del Ponte.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15753	It's a correction to an incorrect quote that you're now trying to say to...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15754	He hurt the Rules of Procedure, he didn't correct me, because Carla Del Ponte put it in the answer. Well, then.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15755	He was correcting you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15756	What?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15757	He was correcting you, not Carla Del Ponte.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15758	He can't fix me when I say he hurt her. Injury is the Rules of Procedure, he was correcting Carla Del Ponte.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15759	He was correcting you, not Carl Del Ponte.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15760	I quoted Carla Del Ponte.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15761	Who's who, let Carla go. A fellow baby. Dear Representative Zlatko Tomcic on behalf of the HSS Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15762	Thank you very much, Mr. President. It is not up to me to assess how contradictory things have been said in this debate compared to what we heard in the opening statement of the Prime Minister, Mr. Ivo Sanader. But I want to remind you this point is called the political aspect of the incriminating part of the indictment against General Ivan Cermak and Mladen Markac. So this home is expected to give a political assessment of these incriminating parts of the indictments that we all said were unacceptable. As far as I can tell, we have three conclusions, the HSS Club, the HSP Club and the HDZ Representatives Club. There is no doubt that if tonight's vote is to be voted upon and voted on by the HDZ Club's conclusion in view of the obvious majority but I, Mr. President and the distinguished members of the government, must say what you really think this one sentence can be a substitution for the high-level court of all that is said, written in indictments against General Cermak, Markac, six from Bosnia and Herzegovina, etc., on ethnic cleansing, on criminal association, on aggression in Bosnia and Herzegovina. I can only appeal do not underestimate this home by voting these conclusions. This theme and this home deserve more. This topic and this home deserve to be approached in a subtle way that will really reflect the views of this House on all non-acceptability, on the way the Government will act in the future, which, in cooperation with the Hague Court, will stick to, in which we will defend the dignity of the Homeland War and the defenders. No matter what's said here from this pay phone, I don't believe that you in HDZ think that the Homeland War is all yours and that the defenders are all yours. I just don't believe it, so don't rush to it, don't rush to making conclusions about this subject that they're placed in one sentence. Homeland war and this home and defenders of Croatia deserve much more matter, deserve one more serious approach, deserve to try if on anything else even on this topic to achieve some kind of agreement in this home. Let's argue about VAT, argue about other less important things and try to reach an agreement on this one. So, Mr. President, I suggest that if you allow me to complete this debate, that we postpone the vote until the next session and that in the meantime that we have tried several times unsuccessfully but still agreed on a great deal of this matter to come to some conclusion which will indeed be of great importance, with a lot of subtlety, with a lot of responsibility on this subject to say what this House needs to say. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15763	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, respected Vice-President Luka Bebic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15764	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament! In the announcements and proposals that had gone on for a long time on the possibility or need to discuss the charges against General Cermak and Mladen Markac, it was the idea to strengthen the Declaration of the Homeland War in the first stage, simply to call on that declaration and to support the government in the activities that it has done so far in defense of the Homeland War in accordance with the Declaration of the Homeland War and to disprove the unacceptable points of the indictment and to advocate that the accused Croatian generals defend themselves from freedom. The fact that there is no institute there, there is no Croatian Parliament can ask for generals to defend themselves from freedom, can ask whether it will be seen in the context of the full cooperation of the Republic of Croatia with the International Criminal Court in The Hague. Whoever wants these conclusions to have at least graphically full content can then take the Declaration of Homeland War, that includes it and that's part of these conclusions. I don't see why you would now write me some special conclusions and points when we have an idea here in some way sublime in this conclusion. Of course we'd like to bring it in by consensus. I must say that in the stage of preparation and preparation of conclusions, we generally agreed to a large part of the conclusions proposed by the HSS as a club. However, after this debate and after some way we have come to the conclusion that this conclusion is sufficient and I think there is no reason not to vote on this conclusion, with the word "Domovinski rat" not "and" but in line with the declaration and the point behind the indictment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-02-0.u15765	Ladies and gentlemen, we have three suggestions. We're going to the vote. I put the vote on the proposal for a conclusion of the Club of Representatives of HZD, HSLS, DC, HSU and the Club of National Minorities. Who's in favour of this proposal for a conclusion? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? I find these conclusions adopted by 70 votes to 15 against and four abstentions. Second, the proposal for a conclusion of the HSS Representative Club. Who's in favour of this proposal for a conclusion? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? I find that this proposal has been voted in favour of the conclusion. Is that ten or 16? 10 against 1 and 78 abstentions. [[/Intruder: 10.]] So they didn't get the necessary majority. I am voting on the proposal for a conclusion of the club of representatives of the HSP. Who's in favor of this proposal for a conclusion? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? I find that this proposal was voted by 9 in favour, 1 against and 79 abstentions. So they didn't get the necessary majority. Ladies and gentlemen, I hereby conclude the 7th session of the Croatian Parliament. The 8th is scheduled for July 7th, starting at 9.30 p.m. Thank you very much and good night!
