ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28173	I welcome all esteemed representatives. You will be presented with a proposal for a law on the confirmation of the Treaty on Crescents between the Republic of Croatia and the European Investment Bank. The purpose of this loan is to finance the completion of the highway on Corridor X in a move from Županje to Lipovac in the length of 29 km. This job is also financed by the joint loan of the European Investment Bank and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. The total amount of the loan is 45m euros, starting at 5.5 years, the repayment deadline so far is the longest that has been reached in the negotiations with banks for 25 years. The EBRD contract has already been ratified in the Assembly and we ask that this be adopted in an emergency procedure to finance this work that is under way.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28174	Thank you very much. Do the Committee's rapporteurs want to? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Club, a respected representative of Šima Prtnječa. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28175	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. Here's a little apology first because in the report of the Committee written by mistake for the form that was written and it was said that in the debate in the Income or Profit Tax Act, I don't know what was right away in the Report that it wasn't. And also for speed because we had to prepare this report last night, so an apology on behalf of the services that prepared it. And now, we have before us a law that should confirm the guarantee agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the European Investment Bank. After many doubts, doubts and dilemmas, as well as forecasts that Croatia does not go forward, that infrastructure will not be built either, we also remember the objection that it is developing unevenly regionally. There were also objections that not enough funds from the budget for individual counties or regions. I would say that it seems to me now that by this Law, or by the Treaty, we are correcting or denying all these doubts. In fact, this contract makes a significant contribution to the development of Slavonia in the part in which this project will be implemented in every form, economically and particularly in the transport sense of blockades and the problems that this region has during the summer months in particular. Croatia is thus continuing to build infrastructure and will finally finish so-called the European Corridor X, which connects the East and West, which makes an international connection across Croatia. The Treaty between the European Bank and the Republic of Croatia shall be based on the earlier Framework Agreement and the protocols signed and shall relate in this part to the completion of the project, as the European Investment Bank and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development are jointly agreed on by the European Investment Bank for Reconstruction and Development. Very short and works for the public and for the sake of the citizens and probably colleagues who have not been able to read all the data I would like to remind you that it is 29.43 km of Županja-Lipovac shares in two subdivisions that are highlighted here. However, I would like to point out that the project ends entirely with these funds, and that is to say: it covers groundwork, construction of track and facilities, and the setting up of equipment and traffic signs, the beginning of works is expected to begin, that is, after the adoption of this Act and after the withdrawal of funds and its completion in 2006 probably. Total amount of 90 million divided by 45 million Investment Bank and Bank for Reconstruction and Development. The framework and the conditions that have been given, it has already been pointed out here that this period is extremely favourable compared to the current ones, and obviously that we will draw as much quality resources as possible in the coming times. And what is worth pointing out is that after these funds, after continuing to work on the highway section towards the south and after expecting pre-accession funds and next year will mean a serious shift and development of Croatia in the sector. So this law should be supported, the HDZ supports it and we suggest that it be accepted by an emergency procedure, noting once again that the funds will be withdrawn after the adoption of this Act. Therefore, as quickly as possible, these funds should be withdrawn and the implementation of this project should begin. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28176	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HSP Club, Honored Representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28177	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The HSP Club supports the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Guarantee Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and the European Investment Bank for the Road Completion Project at Corridor X in the Republic of Croatia with the Final Proposal for the Law. We all know how important it is to create all highways and thus enable Croatia to connect fully in the same way as the word and easier international integration. We are particularly pleased that this loan, which is guaranteed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, i.e. the Croatian Parliament, is concluded with the European Investment Bank. And now it is evident that there is a significant difference between this loan that has been concluded with the European Investment Bank and the other loans that we make with the World Bank. Why do we say that? Because there are no consulting services in this loan. That means we get a loan and spend it all on what we need. As we borrow loans with the World Bank, almost 10% goes to consulting services. This means that the World Bank determines who the 10% will go to for so-called. projects. That is why we support in the fullest sense, and we propose to the Government that these loans are made in the future and not those with the World Bank. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28178	Thank you. HNS club, PGS respected representative Antun Kapraljevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28179	Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. The HNS and PGS club will in any case support the construction of these 30km highways, so it will support, normally in any case, the signing of the loan contract because it is a prerequisite for the development of Slavonia, not because this corridor, which is these 30km of what is left of it, does not mean much to Croatia because these 30km do not connect in Croatia almost anything because the last city on that highway that Croatia has there is a Županja. And behind Juvenile towards Serbia, frankly, we do not have any great need to connect. However, when the highway is viewed as part of the pan-European corridors and of those four corridors passing through Croatia, one of them is also the 10 corridor connecting Munchen, Ljubljana, Zagreb, Belgrade, Thessaloniki and Athens. And when you look at it, in that sense, that highway of ours, then in any case, that part of the 30 kilometers left still needs to be built. But what would you like to point out here? Just as we are moving in these 30 kilometers, I hope that the PC corridor that the Slavonia Housewives is soon going to be in a similar way, or we will probably have a very quick opportunity in Parliament to adopt something similar that should determine the financing of the highway that would link the Ploče-Mostar-Sarajevo-Osjek and Budapest, which we in Slavonia believe will be the vessels of the housewives and the driver of Slavonia's development. I hope here and Mr. Glavas says he will, so I believe that by engaging in his party, he will help us bring something similar to that corridor as soon as possible. That is why, in any case, the Croatian People's Party and the PGS will support, support this bill and therefore we will vote for this.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28180	Thank you. We're going to an individual debate. Representative Nenad Stazic. He's gone. He's losing his word. Representative Ivica Clem.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28181	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues! I would not agree with Mr Kapraljevic that this part of the construction of the highway does not mean much to Croatia. I come from the western part of Srijema which it has directly and will benefit from a built highway after 2006, after it is completed. I don't have to say that Western Srijema and Vukovar-Srijem County have suffered major war damage and that they expect a better recovery of not only infrastructure but also economies. In that part, a large part of the municipalities, bordered by Vojvodina, expect a faster economic development from this highway. For those of us living directly in this area, this road really means a lot, and as a representative, I am pleased to say that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has full support for confirming the guarantee agreement and related to ensuring all necessary financial resources so that this highway is finally completed in this section. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28182	Thank you. Replica, MP Antun Kapraljevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28183	I don't think Mr. Clem understood me very well. I said that Croatia's interest at the moment is not building that highway, but if you look at it as part of the pan-European corridor then it is anyway. And every road connects the cities, so it connects the settlements. We inhabited places have connected there, and the last city, the big city that's on that highway, is Parish. That's why I said it wasn't a priority goal, but in any case, it's the interest of Slavonia to have that road done and done.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28184	Another replica, the esteemed representative of the Mato Church.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28185	Mr. President, I support Agent Clem's claim that this is an important road. That it's important because it's just being realized in the area of Eastern Slavonia and Slavonia at all where it's not done enough in development, but it's not the only thing that I'd add this to it. That is, that road will be realized with one of the most favourable loans and arrangements that we have managed to make in the last 4 years with world institutions. It is not possible to compare the bank's loans with World Bank loans as it was done here. These are completely different banks and different funding opportunities and you will get the most favourable funds for this road, and they are precisely possible from the European Investment Bank. About two years we worked on that loan and he fell out like that. It is a shame not to do and there are no new loans prepared for other projects and not only infrastructure projects, but also in Slavonia, which this bank is willing to take if good proposals and projects are podaturized. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28186	Thank you. The reply to the replica is representative of Ivica Clem.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28187	Your Honor, I would like you to acknowledge, however, the fact that there is a western part of Srijema in Croatia. When we talk about Eastern Slavonia, then we know how far the borders of Eastern Slavonia range. We also have Vukovar-Srijem County. So we also have a piece of Western Sreme on the territory of the Republic of Croatia. Here I absolutely agree with you that the Government of the Republic of Croatia led Dr. Sanader, however, has managed to provide such a favourable loan to complete the highway on corridor 10. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28188	Honorable representative Miroslav Korenika.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28189	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues, I think that no one disputes the importance and importance of the 10th Corridor especially of this road, and also in the railway sense for the Republic of Croatia. However, I have to learn a little bit in controversy with Mr. Clem because the fact is that regardless of the 10th corridor and the continuation of the highway from Županje towards the Croatian-Serbian border, however, the fact is not so important in terms of the traffic of vehicles on the Croatian side. There are also state roads that can be driven. But I'd say something else. It is a great credit to the former Croatian government and the former calls on Parliament to join projects like this in the first place. We can now depolmise who is now at the end, who will sign the contract, but what a fellow Churchman said was that for two years, negotiations were being held on this loan and that he can now be realised not to praise the former government, the courage to go to the end and right after the war, the 10th corridor when, and I hope that in the construction of this 10th corridor will be much useful for the precisely mechanization and companies dealing with the construction of roads from Slavonia that was devastated. In doing so, I think that this 10th corridor in financial terms will be the golden coke for the Republic of Croatia by normalising relations with the Republic of Serbia-Montenegro or the state community. I'm sure this highway will pay off very quickly in a financial sense. But it doesn't need to be stopped. I think that now is the situation and the opportunity to talk that it is necessary for Eastern Slavonia and Western Srijem to connect, and I expect that the Croatian government will show a visionary relationship and will do what is expected of it and that is a sub-level fast road that will connect the Croatian-Slovenian border with Osijek and Vukovar. Over that and with the Vinkovci to go down to this 5-C corridor towards the port of Ploche. So I'm personally supporting, but this one's got more masks going on. There were skeptics and the beginning of the government's mandate when it was spoken and said that investment in the highway was an unreasonable move. The government, the current government itself, deny itself by accepting this Act or by giving guarantees that we, who have been the opposition today, have repeatedly claimed that the construction of the 10th corridor and the complete construction of the infrastructure is of great benefit to the development of the Republic of Croatia. So I'm supporting this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28190	Thank you. State Secretary Zdravko Livaković.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28191	We have one amendment to the Committee on Lawmaking, where Article 3 behind the words "banks" adds a text which reads as follows: "which is the contribution and a part of this law of the clock". The amendment can be accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28192	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. And we're going to take another quick vote, a few dots. Final proposal of the Law on the Confirmation of the Treaty on loan between the Republic of Croatia and the European Investment Bank for the Autocestse Completion Project on Corridor X in the Republic of Croatia, emergency procedure, P.Z. No. 201. The debate on the text of the Law is over. The amendment given by the Legislative Committee has been adopted by the Proposer in accordance with the proposal of the HDZ Club of Representatives, I am voting on the final draft of the law by raising my hand. Who's up for this bill? Thank you. Who's against it? Restraint? I find it unanimous with 79 votes to pass this Law in the text as proposed by the Government along with the amendment adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28195	Thank you, Mr. President of the Parliament. Dear ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. Here are three laws, energy laws that are very important and above all, which are changes to the energy law and new laws on electricity triangulation and the law on regulation of energy activities. Refort energy sector in the Republic of Croatia began in July 2001 when the Croatian Parliament adopted the concept of reform adopted a package of energy laws. This enables, among other things, the creation of an institutional energy sector framework with particular emphasis on energy market liberalisation. The five Directives of the European Union that came into force after 2001 are newly regulating issues in the energy sector. The additional reason for amending these laws is also the difficulties in implementing the energy sector reform under existing laws. It is necessary to redesign an existing system and market operator by setting up a transmission system operator to perform integrated power system management and power transmission functions. It is necessary to separate the market operator from HEP. Such a solution brings unique responsibility for the security of the electricity system and is in line with solutions in most European countries. Further opening of the market requires a more operational energy regulator. So short a few sentences about each of these laws. Amendments to the Energy Act. The energy law is a roof law for all laws in the energy sector and provides a comprehensive legal framework for the sector. This law sets out, first and foremost, the structure of regulated and free energy prices. Methodology for the determination of tariff items with a height of headings. And jurisdiction over its adoption which is reasonably assigned to the Government, the Ministry of Regulatory and Energy Entities to which a particular tariff system is concerned. The law also accurately formulate general conditions for energy supply and consumer protection measures. To speed up solving the problem of illegal construction, these amendments to the law prohibit the collection of buildings with a construction permit on energy networks. The electricity market law lays down regulated and marketable electricity activities. How to obtain the status of a privileged producer, and the right to encourage. As well as the procedures for granting approval for the construction of new power plants, and the publication and execution of a public tender if access is to be opened for that construction. The law lays down the responsibilities and responsibilities of transmission operator and distribution system operator. AND their independence in a vertically integrated company. The independence of electricity loads from electricity transmission and distribution activities and the obligation of all suppliers to assume electricity from renewable energy sources and generation as well as the obligation of public information providers is regulated. Special emphasis is on the protection of customers from the category of households and small customers. Additional roles of market operators in the performance of operations, e.g. the calculation of balancing energy, and the collection and distribution of funds for the promotion of renewable energy sources and cogeneration have been established. The annual spending limit has been reduced to obtaining preferential customer status, from 40 to 20 gigawatt hours, and dynamics have been established until the market is finally opened. The public service obligation of supply and the rights and obligations of privileged and tariff buyers has been established in a transparent manner. The transitional and final provisions of the law lay down the obligations of HEP for the provision of public services and for the establishment of a new structure, in particular the separation of supply and distribution. Issuing of market operators from HEP and public service obligations of customers who are left without suppliers or who do not wish to use the status of a privileged buyer. In order to establish and implement the regulation of energy activities, the system of regulated action of energy subjects, and the establishment and arrangement of the energy market by the new energy regulation law, it is proposed to establish an independent, independent, non-profit, public institutions called the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency. The founder of the agency is proposed that the Republic of Croatia, the agency for its work, corresponds to the Croatian Assembly, this law regulates the internal structure of the agency, accurately determines and determines its business and activities as an activity of special state interest. For example, these are the tasks of disposing of permits to carry out energy activities. By providing methodologies and supervision of the application of tariff systems. Control of the work of energy subjects. All of the so far, this is important to say, the acts of the Council for the Regulatory of Energy Activities and all the solutions of that Council and the permits are valid for the time of the one issued, so it simply ensures the continuity of the current council and the new agency. The reasons why this law is important and important to adopt already and this year are not only a alignment with the European Union directives but also our international obligations and the need to be members of European associations so that we can use the funds, that we are moving towards the liberalisation of the energy sector as quickly as possible. To regulate the position of renewable energy sources and cogenerations that have not been legally regulated so far. In view of the need to establish a level of operationality in the work of regulators and normal compliance with the way energy law, electricity market law and energy regulation law. Therefore, I ask you to adopt these amendments to the law on energy and new laws on the electricity market and the law on energy regulation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28196	Thank you, Minister. Do the committee's reporters want to see it? The European Integration Committee. President Neven Mimica, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28197	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary, dear colleagues and fellow MPs. The Committee on European Integration has today been united to discuss these three proposals. Let's call them the energy package. And as an interested working body, the Committee unanimously means all 7 members present and members of the Committee, has confirmed that these laws are sufficiently consistent at this time with the legal gain of the European Union. And that full harmonisation is coming after the adoption of sublegal acts in time to Croatia's accession to the European Union. In addition to this confirmation of European coherence, the debate expressed its opinion that, because of the importance of this matter for the overall functioning of the energy system, and because of the fact that there is no time-limit for harmonisation that would require an emergency procedure, it is better to go with these laws without an emergency procedure, i.e. that these laws should be discussed in a regular procedure. However, I say, as far as European harmonisation is concerned, the Committee has confirmed a sufficient level of coherence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28198	Thank you very much. Chairman of the Committee on Economics, Honorable Representative Drago Pukleš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28199	Your Honor, Mr. President, the Honorable Minister, the Honorable Representatives. The Committee on the Economy, Development and Reconstruction of the Croatian Parliament at the 21st session held on 29 November 2004 discussed the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on energy with the Final Proposal of the Law, the proposal for a regulation of energy activities with the Final Proposal for a Law and the Proposal for a Law on the Market of Electricity with the Final Proposal for Law, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia by the Act of 18 November 2004, with a proposal to comply with Article 159. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament of Laws shall be adopted by an urgent procedure. The Committee shall be within the meaning of Article 67. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament discussed the above-mentioned Bills as a parent working body. On a proposal from the Committee president, the Committee discussed the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Energy Act with the Final Proposal for Law, the emergency procedure, the 1st and 2nd reading, the proposal for a law on the electricity market with the final draft law, the emergency procedure, the 1st and 2nd reading and the proposal for a law on energy regulation with the final draft law, the emergency procedure 1st and 2nd reading. In his opening statement, the applicant's representative pointed out that the regulatory energy activity process started in 2001 and that, after a short delay in these legislative proposals, the process continued. When drawing up these legislative proposals, binding guidelines of the European Union have been taken into account, in particular those 5 relating to these legislative proposals. The applicant specifically pointed out that according to the European Union directives, the energy system should be guided in a way that enables basic decisions to be made in one place. These legislative proposals prescribe guidelines for other laws to be passed and are related to energy activity. A request for a structured energy price has also been introduced, so that all consumers know what enters that price. Particularly protected are natural persons and small businesses, as energy users. It is prescribed that all users have the right to choose to buy electricity. The proposing representative also stressed the jurisdiction of the Croatian regulatory agency whose decisions are final, which means that only judicial protection can be sought against them. These legislative proposals have established a new way of calculating the transmission of electricity abroad. The adoption of these laws is a presumption of the adoption of sublegal acts in the field of energy which should result in greater liberalisation of the energy market. In the opening of the debate, the Committee President met the members of the Committee with the material of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce whose representative pointed out that HEP supports the adoption of the proposed laws, while INA and JANAF have objections which are united in that material. The basic observation by INA and JANAF is that, in view of the importance of the matter regulated by these legislative proposals, they should go into the regular procedure of adoption without the application of an emergency procedure. The representative of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce has proposed that the fundamental law relating to the harmonisation of Croatian legislation with the legislation of the European Union should also be discussed in regular procedure. The president of the trade union in Croatia's electricity industry stressed that these legal proposals begin the abolition of the HEP monopoly and continue the process of restructuring of HEP. Following the discussion, the Committee unanimously reached the next conclusion. It is supported by the adoption of the Law amending and supplementing the Energy Act, the adoption of the Energy Regulation Act and the adoption of the Electricity Market Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28200	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'm opening a club debate. Croatian Democratic Community Representatives' Club, respected representative Kresimir Cosic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28201	Your Honor, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary, ladies and gentlemen. The 2001 Energy Act, as known, is a roof law for all other laws in the field of energy. It was prepared nearly 5 years ago, and it is understandable today that it is not in line with the new European Union directives adopted in 2003 and there are legitimate reasons for updating it. Because of this, it is not enough framework for all other laws in the energy sector and the efforts of the Government of Croatia to modernise and update it have been fully justified and therefore here today we are discussing this package of laws. I'll just point out some shortcomings in this law. The current Energy Act provides that energy activities are separate from the transmission of electricity and the management of the electricity system. That's not good for many reasons. Not only because of the fact that this does not correspond to European knowledge today, but simply the necessary level of synergy and uniform management of the electricity system management system and the transmission system enables far greater efficiency of the system as a whole. Furthermore, Directive 203 54 EC does not know a separate system operator from an energy transmission operator, but only a single transmission system operator, tsl TSO transmission system operator to be responsible for the following tasks: ensuring the long-term capacity of the demand system, contributing to security of supply, managing energy flows in the network, informing the operator of adjacent networks, non-discrimination of network users, informing network users etc. In addition, there are additional reasons why it was necessary to update the existing energy law. A very significant problem of rationalising energy consumption, i.e. The increase in energy efficiency is not sufficiently defined and regulated by the current Energy Act and no compliance with the European Union directives has been achieved. The relevant law further does not adequately and sufficiently clearly describe the tariff systems and the procedures for their adoption for certain energy activities. Furthermore, the applicable gas economy law does not cover the energy activity of natural gas supply. In addition, natural gas supply and natural gas distribution activities as public services do not have a regulated price tariff methodology. Furthermore, as regards oil and petroleum products, the applicable law does not include the energy activities of biofuel production, oil pipeline transport, oil and oil transport, and oil derivatives and biofuels by road vehicles. This is due to the fact that the energy operators present cannot obtain authorisations to carry out the activities for which they are otherwise qualified. Furthermore, the adoption of this law and all the laws that we are discussing today, which are related to this law, will result in the opening of the energy market according to the European Union directives and will contribute to the rapid liberalisation of the energy sector and the rationalisation of energy entities in the Republic of Croatia. I will stress only some important elements relating to harmonisation with European Union directives and documents, the adoption of common rules on the electricity market, the adoption of common rules on the internal market for natural gas, the adoption and promotion of the use of electricity from renewable energy sources, the promotion of cogeneration based on the use of useful heat and the promotion of the use of biofuels and other renewable fuels in transport. So from all that's been said, it's quite clear that for the past five years they've made important changes in the existing Energy Act. So the main objective of this bill is to better identify and regulate all energy activities in the Republic of Croatia, ensure a unique view of all energy activities, a single management and management system with all the important parts of this complex energy system in the Republic of Croatia. Establish a more comprehensive legal framework for other energy sector laws in order to make production, transfer, distribution and supply of energy to all customers in the Republic of Croatia more reliable and efficient. In addition, all documents place particular emphasis on environmental protection measures, renewable energy, cogeneration and energy efficiency. Now allow me a few words about the proposal for a law on energy regulation. Recently in this House, we discussed the Council's annual report on energy regulation. We took note of it, with certain observations which were primarily related to the fact that the Energy Regulatory Council has, in accordance with the existing law, significant means to charge for the provision and authorisation of activities in the energy sector. However, this Energy Regulatory Council had only three employees with such significant revenues and I personally suggested that we be provided with a report on the financial operations of the Energy Regulatory Council, but here we are today discussing a proposal for a law on the regulation of energy activities which, in some ways, dodging or abolishing the Energy Regulatory Council, which really makes sense and justification, I would like to say a few words. The Republic of Croatia is a signator of the European Energy Charter, which has been established to accelerate the liberalisation of the energy sector and allow third parties to access existing transmission and transport systems of energy in the Republic of Croatia. The aim of opening the market is to give all energy suppliers an equal opportunity to supply customers with objectively visible and impartial conditions, and the establishment of regulation should allow for control of the achievement of the objectives set. The proposed law, as I said about regulation of energy activities, establishes and this is highlighted in the opening section, the Agency for the Regulatory of Energy Activities as a public and independent institution that is structured as follows. She has her own board of directors, she needs to have her own board president, she has an agency, i.e. staff of the Agency and she should have a director as an appropriate professional. The Administrative Board of the Energy Regulatory Agency shall be appointed by the Croatian Parliament. I hope that we will have this very soon in the Croatian Parliament in the procedure, and the director is elected by the administrative council as an expert in the public competition. The Statute of the Agency shall be adopted by the Administrative Board of the Agency, with the prior consent of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The activities of the Agency shall be of particular interest to the Republic of Croatia and shall be carried out by the Agency on the basis of public authority. That's quite understandable from everything that's been said so far. Any acts for which the adoption is solely competent, shall be adopted by the Administrative Board of the Agency on a proposal from the Director of the Agency. The President of the Governing Council shall manage the work of the Agency, represent and represent the Agency, and shall organise expert work to prepare all proposals to the Governing Council. The annual report on the overall situation in the energy sector, as well as the financial report, on the implementation of the financial plan, shall be submitted by the Agency to the Croatian Parliament and the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I stress and repeat the existing structure of the Energy Regulatory Council, according to which it consists of only five members standing here, I said three, disabling its independent and active performance in the field of energy regulation and we really had an important institution that was actually fictitious, but as the virtual institution says today, because such important responsibilities, the responsibilities of the activities of the institution with only a few employees could not be carried out. How did she do those jobs? They were carried out in the following way, that most of them, or almost all of the professional tasks for the purposes of the Council, were carried out by the Energy Institute "Croatian Fire" as an institution over which the Council had no control. In such circumstances, the Council does not have the necessary conditions or has not had the necessary conditions to exercise its functions independently of the regulatory body in the field of energy regulation and this has led to difficulties in carrying out energy activities and the establishment of energy markets with the potential for long-term serious consequences, so such a Council work organisation had to be abolished and this is what we are likely to vote on Friday and adopt. It should, in particular, be pointed out once again that the Agency for the Regulatory of Energy Activities in the scope of its affairs, by jurisdiction, is stronger than many ministries in the Republic of Croatia. I usually make fun of myself, it's practically one strong ministry, the Ministry of Energy, but for reasons of simpler management at the government level, that institution has a title as agreed and adopted, i.e. The Agency for the Regulatory of Energy Activities. Justifying such an important institution with this law is only the first step. Functioning, especially the quality functioning of this Agency is a job that will take a long time, and the first step is extremely important, i.e. the installation of quality people in view of the complexity of the tasks for which the Agency will be competent, especially the leaders. A good law doesn't have to be good in implementation. Without quality good people capable of coping with all these challenges, the Agency will not be able to meet the challenges and I hope that this issue, which is just as important as the law itself, will pay special attention. Furthermore, a few words on the proposal for a law on the electricity market. As is known, by implementing the provisions of the Electricity Market Act, and by respecting the provisions of the Energy Act, on 1 July 2002, Croatia's electricity industry was transformed into a system of related societies of basic and accompanying activities. Respecting the provisions of the Law on Commercial Companies, Croatia's electricity, as is known, is organized as a concept called HEP Group, run by the ruling company Croatia's electricity industry, and all the others below are listed companies over which Croatia's electricity has a dominant influence. It is HEP production, HEP transmission, HEP distribution and HEP supply. The adoption of the Energy Act, the Law on the Regulatory of Energy Activities and the Law on the Market in Electricity practically emanates one serious and large process of restructuring the HEP. What reasons for the restructuring of HEP according to this Law have already been said and I just want to point out once again. In particular, it is a significant unsustainable alignment with the requirements of Directive 2003-54-EC. As a result, this Law will introduce, along with a single transmission system operator, what we have said, the integration of transmission and management systems, the introduction of a distribution system operator, as well as a market operator. This is the important element since today's market operator is in HEP structure and this is in line with the European Union directives, in line with the requirements on the liberalisation of the energy market, is not acceptable. Therefore, there are very complex and important structural changes ahead of HEP for all of these reasons. Finally, such a solution as is known is a European standard. The establishment of the so-called The TSO operator is the task ahead. First of all, it would point out, especially and important because of the international obligations of the Republic of Croatia, i.e. because of the positioning of the formal and strategic Croatian transmission system operator in international frameworks. There is a near signing of important international contracts, i.e., accession to the European Association of transmission system operators, so-called ETSO. And positioning of the Croatian transmission system operator in the bodies of the European Electricity Transfer Association, UCTE. Finally, for all these reasons, the Croatian Democratic Community Club strongly supports this great effort by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to modernise the energy sector of the Republic of Croatia as a whole. And as I said, the first step in modernising this energy sector, this energy system is to adopt a certain package of laws. Again, I stress, in the end, the implementation and implementation of these laws is, I would say, far more complex tasks and more responsible than the definition of laws and their adoption. And for this reason, the Croatian Democratic Community Club expects the implementation of all these laws to be made as high-quality, organised and efficient as this first step towards modernising the legislative system of the Republic of Croatia in the energy sector. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28202	Thank you. HNS representative club, PGS, respected representative of Jaksa Marasovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28203	On my big surprise Friday these laws were included in the agenda. Remember a few weeks ago, which month of discussion on the Council's report on regulation, and no matter what fellow Cosic says we took it into consideration, it seemed to me that we were thinking a little more seriously about this report and what he was saying. It seemed to me that in the Parliament, as well as in the Croatian public, I would say, in a different way than in terms of energy, especially in terms of electroprivreda. I will repeat today, in the 7th month of 84, the last decisions were made on the construction of an energy facility, a source, therefore, of an energy building for production. That's more than 20 years. That's one fact for you. Another fact is that we, depending on the hydrological year, produce between 40 and 50% of total energy as hydroenergy, and the rest or produce from other sources, therefore, and the thermo-source or import. The third fact is that the growth in energy consumption in Croatia is between 4% and 8% in recent years. Unfortunately, not because our industry is growing, but because of a growing comedy. Well, you have a situation where in the Adriatic you have, despite the fact that in winter people are heating up on electricity, you have the same consumption in summer and winter in the last few years. I'll list one more fact. Losses in the distribution and transmission network are 17% in Croatia. To illustrate, in the world it's between 5% and 7%. Now, if we know all that and there's a lot more to know, we're now saying in a hurry, without any analysis of the big, no big debates in professional circles, we say, let's pass energy laws, a package of energy laws. And what do we change about those in 2001 and 2002? We're terminating the Board of Regulators, that's one thing. We set up the Agency and abolish the market operator we return to the vertical in the transmission d.d., HEP transfer d.d. It works, on the grounds that we are doing so in order to comply with European Union directives or market liberalisation, and then we return that operator to whoever holds the monopoly. We are very, very much in line with European directives and very, very liberal about the markets. Because that, you know, is what I'd say, if you were buying, you were going to buy a car, and you were going to buy Mitschubishi, but you came to the Mercs store, and now you're going to buy a Mercedes, right? So that's one of the reasons why these laws change. On the third side of me, I cannot be taken away from the suspicion that such an approach, such an emergency, is not preparing something that I think would be very bad for Croatian energy, which is the faster the sale of Croatian, Croatian energy system. In fact, they cannot be kidnapped for the simple reason that in most of the countries of transition that have already entered the European Union something similar has happened and sold on their regrets, today they regret what they have done because they are far away from GDP, per capital from the European Union, from the former members of the European Union and are now completely dependent on Europe's energy system to our happiness or disaster Europe, and it is dependent on Russia, so today they are not managing their system, but manages the European Union, manages Brussels and manage the bosses who bought it. We have, as I said, about 40% of the production from hydropower produced for free today, because all these power plants were built more than 20 years ago, and some 40 years ago, and some of them, even 100 years ago, and they produce electricity practically free of charge, because they have no depreciation and now imagine a situation where we can find ourselves having discussions about it in Croatia, whether Jaksa Marasovic or someone like that will sell some land to a stranger who is a question of what value it is. And that we're going to sell something that's a national treasure, because it's water, because it's a drop that exists on our waterways, and that's why we get electricity. That's what we're going to sell, and it seems to me that the great danger of this urgency, which we've come to realize today, is that at the very least I could ask the MPs to remove the emergency procedure from these laws, to take this as a first reading and see what to do in the analyses in the next few months before these laws are passed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28204	Thank you. The HSP club is a respected representative of Miroslav Rožic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28205	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Gentlemen and Madam Representatives. It's really a lot of times I'd say fun or less fun to listen to the same subject change attitudes and thinking depending on whether you're in power or you're in opposition. In fact, this is about a package of laws that speaks about regulation of energy activities, i.e. the electricity market and energy. This package of laws is actually the beginning of a break-up with the concept of regulating the Croatian energy market, especially the electricity created between 2000 and 2003. When this concept was adopted and I remind you during the summer extraordinary session of 2000 in the late night hours, which my colleague Slaven Letica would say, when wise owls were hunting mice, then in 2000 at that extraordinary session HSP warned of the unsustainability and harmfulness of Croatian economic interests of such concept. The whole concept was rapid and there is really nothing in the material titled the Croatian energy sector reform proposal, in which even eight pages without any financial indicator suggested such a concept of reform of the Croatian energy sector. So, reforming and liberalising the electricity system. But that is why there was no lack of much appeal then to the European Commission directives and membership in the European Union, all to actually justify the introduction of a system that had not yet been brought to life anywhere back then in 2000. And those who actually tested it and tried it like Italy and Greece now at this same time that we're discussing it, that concept now give up on it. So today we are witnessing that through these changes in the law and the Republic of Croatia such as Italy and Greece finally give up that concept from the system. The changes in the energy system are not harmless, because without any patheticity, it is literally about the economic blood flow of the state, and companies and companies in the field of energy are generally both in capital and in profit strongest in every country in the world. That is why no country is concerned about who or how or in whose interest it directs visions of the development of energy. In addition, INA and HEP are worth at least four and a half billion dollars in the most modest judgments, and any change in energy prices or oil derivatives has a dramatic impact on the economy, as well as on citizens' standards throughout the economy. However, in the Republic of Croatia everything was in the hands of the Energy Regulatory Council, which actually consists of 5 members. And for those five members of this Energy Regulatory Council, there was no sophisticated professional service, but all the professional support for their decisions was provided by the Institute of Fire. So, whether it is electricity or gas tariffs, the restructuring of INE and HEP, the planning of development, etc., all decisions were subject to the famous professional influence of the Institute "Croatia Pozar" and its director, the famous strategy of Goran Granić, and of course not for free, but equally not necessarily professionally and impartially and of course not necessarily in the national interest of Croatia. More specifically, without excess environments, the whole system has been regulated by law so far that the director of the "Croatian Fire" Institute was actually the master of Croatia's energy sector. It is therefore logical to establish a private agency with the Council as its professional service when it is already going to create an independent regulator, a liberal energy market. So why all the rush to liberalising the energy sector when no one in Croatia knows exactly how much electricity our country will need in 5 or 25 years. How much energy will we be able to recover from our investments, for example in Serbia, Bosnia and Herzegovina? No national development strategy has yet been developed. The alleged reason for the reform of the energy sector, i.e. the law on the liberalisation of the electricity market, which was discussed by the Parliament in 2000, was Croatia's involvement in European integration. But that's certainly completely pointless. Why? In particular, the 1997 European Union Directive on the liberalisation of the electricity market advocates national sovereignty over its own energy and transport systems, i.e. power lines, pipelines, pipelines, etc. In addition, the said directive provides for 2 equal underlines the equal model of regulating electricity markets, so on. The open market model, which was in fact the basis of that 2000 strategy. Based on the example of part of the EU member states and even more famous California. In other words, from the other old model of the only buyer that is in power in Croatia today. And they apply it in the European Union, including Italy, France and Ireland. So, if the Italians, French and Irish, along with this system of the only buyer, recorded economic growth within the European Union, why could it not continue to apply to Croatia? At that time, however, the government chose an open market model that envisioned the development of INA and HEP to private private companies that freely, therefore without state control, trade in energy and fuel. However, Croatia's national interest is to monitor its market energy in the model of the only buyer. Not even the most concerned supporters of the free market in the European Union or in the United States would allow themselves, for example, to be monitored by 75 to 80% of the energy market. The privatisation of HEP also meant the sale of Croatian family silver. In addition, newly created private companies will not have the conditions to survive, so they will gladly increase electricity prices differently in different parts of Croatia. The fight of private profit companies will eliminate their will to expand power plants and improve the transport network, and contrary to the current obligation of HEP to provide electricity to everyone in the territory of Croatia, this new model of the open market involves consumer freedom to choose the most favourable energy supplier, even outside Croatia. the freedom to import electricity, for example from Ukraine. But at the same time, the freedom of energy suppliers to choose a buyer of electricity outside Croatia, for example, in Italy. No matter how much Croatia really needs energy right now. So none of the privates in that model are responsible for, for example, the lack of electricity, because they actually aim at profit, i.e. exporting electricity where it can be sold without risk. All of these happened in California. After privatising and liberalising the electricity market according to the open market model and causing energy supply instability and power reductions, watch out for power cuts in California. This, however, would cause even more suffering and power reduction in Croatia than those we witnessed in 92. On the other hand, a sharp rise in electricity and fuel prices, which would completely affect the Croatian economy. Although work is fortunately far behind us, Croatia has no reason to repeat California's mistakes today. All Croatian residents with discomfort remember periods of power cuts during the war years. It is possible, however, that we will experience a reduction of electricity throughout Croatia in a few years, for example. For those who do not consider it possible, it is worth mentioning the news of the CCN as of 18 January this year in connection with the power shortage in California. So, in California with such a successful economy that it would belong to the eight richest countries in the world if, by any chance, it was independent, in January of this year even the famous Governor Schwarzenegger and his government were tortured by power shortages. California was missing 18 gigawatts a day, so just before the summer heats when the air conditioning device greatly increases energy consumption. The crisis hasn't been resolved until today. The state of California imported some electricity from other countries, and it paid off part of the debt only to the largest private distributor, a private electricity distributor in California, which is "Pacific GS and eletic", which, after all of that, was bankrupt. The governor proposed austerity measures for higher electricity consumption and increased electricity prices by 150 to 300%. Sounds very familiar to you, 'cause so? So the whole thing is out in California to the citizens, who are the least guilty of it. Of course, far from me wanting to compare Croatia with California, which is no longer necessary to doubt whether such a vital economy is going to know how to get out of this energy crisis, especially since Governor Arnold Schwarzenegger is. Yet if California could afford so much trouble from the so-called. The liberalisation and model of the open electricity market, what would happen to Croatia then? That's why we at the HSP Club repeat what we said in 2000. It must leave the open market model urgently and return to the only buyer model, such as Italy or as such a model in the European Union has France, Ireland and some other countries. And secondly, don't forget that with this package of laws here today, the proposed law on the privatisation of HEP has to be changed, otherwise nothing will be done, this will remain a dead letter on paper. Unfortunately, we lost most of our INA. Therefore, leaving the open market model and changing the HEP Privatisation Act would finally protect the Croatian electricity system from the risk of collapse and protect the Croatian economy from possible collapse. The only damage could then be suffered by Croatian Energy Strategy Goran Granic due to the decline in the value of the shares of the Institute of Hrvoje Pozar, but I think it is a damage that we can all bear. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28206	Thank you. Dear Representative Slavko Linic SDP's Club of Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28207	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Mr. Secretary. The SDP club assesses that the proposed package of laws has come to an urgent debate and surprising. Why surprising? Because we don't see the reason for this... We really don't see her. Four years ago, a reform of the energy system began, and it is evident that after four years, a studio evaluation of such a reform should be approached and then expected experts to propose changes, complement and take the greatest burden of new amendments and additions to the law. Unfortunately, the whole package is in front of us overnight, which means the experts weren't involved in making these documents. It is evident that it is part of the experts who are employed in HEP and that here we have experts who primarily seek to define their opinion on the basis of the interest of HEP. The question is whether what is called the continuation of the reform is what is called and the attempt to prepare our system for the European market, but also the question is whether this will finally enable us to invest in the electricity system and finally build energy capacities that we haven't had in more than 20 years. So, the biggest drawback for all of us who have to discuss today is that we don't have that score, which happened in four years. These materials that are in front of us are not listed. In fact, it is likely for political reasons that it is evident that it is silenced that what happened this four years, we have no quality comments. It's like nothing's happened in the last four years. And as we can see from the debates so far, we have a lot of groundbreaking actions and steps in the process of creating an energy market in Croatia. But since we are represented in such a situation, we obviously need to show ourselves about the proposals that are ahead of us so that we can in some way make a decision in the vote itself. The SDP estimates that with the proposed laws, we only have a few important changes, so it is important to highlight them. This is a change in which the transmission regulator returns to HEP and HEP is now becoming a vertical organisation related to electricity. It's the biggest change. Return of transmission regulators or transmission operator to HEP. It's an important change and we're going to talk more about whether it's good and whether it's making a difference. Secondly, what we see is the government's policy proposal, which is the reduction of an independent operator in regulation of market legality in the energy sector and, of course, the formation of an agency directly under the influence of the Government, means direct interference of the government in the electricity market and other energy sources, given that the agency is no longer an independent body and that it has an impact on the entire system of regulators. And what is also important to note, given that this reform is now trying to show itself as a new process we have a two-year delay, I would say privatisation processes. I'd say investment in the energy sector, but two years is a delay in tariff systems. Therefore, and our expectations that we will finally be able to discuss the tariff systems in particular the supply of electricity. It's about the important newspaper of this package that's ahead of us. And that's why when we talk about SDP's position even though we haven't defined it hard yet so that we can accept this kind of package-making approach and that we can approach it, accept these proposals since these are the newspapers that are here before us. It may still be necessary to indicate that we are assessing even though this whole package is also called for by the European Union Directives, it is evident that these directives have been well prescribed but that the reform resulting from these Directives has not been introduced into these laws. And that this is essentially just one of the beginnings of the opening of the Croatian energy market and the attempts I would say modernising the energy market without those moves that we are obviously going to have to do what will be difficult for us after negotiations with the Commission during the negotiation proceedings. Therefore, under other people's pressure, and not because we would have today a proposal from experts who must see what this is for 20 years the energy market in the Republic of Croatia. And a few hints about the individual law. The characteristics of the Energy Act are the process of returning regulators to the vertical organisation of HEP. That's what we can judge whether it's good or not. It is evident that the process of returning the transmission operator would not be good for the SDP to return to HEP. Whatever we think about the privatisation processes of HEP is possible to happen. Whatever we think about new investments in the gas thermal power plant that needs Croatia, in the Hydropower plant at Virje. Whether HEP will do this, whether it will work private capital in Croatia is always a fundamental issue of electricity transmission, how much the return to HEP will be an obstacle to the transmission of electricity produced in Croatia from private capital or the transfer of electricity beyond our borders it will only be seen with these new solutions. It is also evident in the solutions so far, especially since 2000, that the interest of Croatia must be that the operator in the transmission of electricity must be a company owned by the Croatian state, it is a monopoly and over that monopoly must feel the politics of the Croatian state. Therefore, there should be neither privatisation processes nor the interest of a private company, or, say, mixed companies, or tomorrow will be owned in HEP depending on the future that will take place in Croatia for privatisation processes. Therefore, by returning to HEP there is a problem especially if the HEP Privatisation Act is not changed to get private owners, regardless of whether it will be strategic, whether it will be financially and over the transfer which should not be allowed and we try to understand that new construction and gas power plants and Hydropower plants will require private capital. It may be pension funds, but it's unacceptable for them to own the transfer, it's unacceptable. And that is the weakness of this solution that has been offered. So much for talking about transfer decisions... So much for talking about transfer solutions. What I'm trying to say is that's also gas-related discounts. We find that storage of gas and gas distribution is a public activity, not a commercial activity that confuses these solutions, it is evident that we will try to address the amendments to these shortcomings. But we still see one problem. The biggest problem in Croatia is different prices. 28 different prices in gas distribution. And now there was an opportunity to have a unique gas price system in distribution in Croatia. And that could have been solved, there's no solution offered in the Energy Act. Speaking of the electricity market, we return to the assessment of whether the transmission operator means a stable market if it is independent. That simply with the ownership roles of the Croatian state, the complete control of the Croatian state over an independent operator can enable investment in Croatia in new capacities. In new capacities that we haven't built in 20 years, into new hats that will cause us trouble. Because we have a deficit problem, we have problems with new investments. It's just that the international financial world is trying to stop and control us in investment. HEP will not be able to fully enter the new gas plant of the new hydropower plant. Will such solutions stop foreign capital, domestic capital, huge capital in pension funds that could finally move towards energy and reduce Croatia's dependence on energy imports. Therefore, I think that part that speaks of the transmission operator is badly solved both with one law and the other. And of course we're going back here to basic conflicts in surveillance, and that's the Law on the regulation of energy activities. I also listened to my predecessor talking about the negative role of the Hrvoje Fire Energy Institute. Indeed, we in Croatia must ask ourselves what is happening to us. If the problem is one man, then let's talk about a man but the Energy Institute means a system in Croatia where it is evident that through the institutes we must create a professional base, a base of experts, not political representatives who will try to modernise the market for any activity in Croatia. And it is evident that it is the institutes that have to be in the function of independent regulators in order to have as little policy impact as possible, in order to have a minor impact on the problem of the state budget in the relationship between the service manufacturer and the service user. So far, the solution in which we had the Energy Regulatory Council as a comprehensive independent Council which had the opportunity to act without the influence of the Government and the policy and on tariff systems, security of supply, quality of delivery to customers in this section are being reduced. And we're turning again towards a strong state intervention. We estimate that's not good. We estimate that it is not good when we have independent institutions, that it is not good when we have professional institutions formed in institutes because they are approximately solutions that exist in the modern world, especially in modern Europe. No, we have a problem, Goran Granic. We have a problem. It's a tragedy for Croatia. And what are we introducing? We're introducing agencies. Direct influence of the Croatian Government on regulators. What we have finally avoided in many activities when we talk about supervision of financial institutions, supervision of pension funds, means the institutes we have formed to simply remove policy, to remove the influence of the executive authorities, to share responsibility, in energy that is the problem of Croatia, and the problem of Croatia is because we do not have enough energy sources and we have natural gas in the Adriatic and we have water and water resources, we have again the influence of politics, the impact of politics. I don't think that's a good solution either. These are all reasons that the SDP Club will likely point to a negative attitude towards this package and we offer a solution and we call on the representatives of the motion that these laws are instructed in the first reading, to include the expert energy public around these solutions, to try to assess with a little more words that happened from 2000 to 2003, which are positive, negative moments both in Croatia and in Europe for which we would have to change something important. Because there is simply no need to stop reforms, to go back one step and maybe, tomorrow, under pressure from the European Commission, change these laws. Because that's when we show our independence and our weakness. And I think another reading would probably fix some of these important, important things in regulating energy activities for our new generation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28208	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the respected representative Krešimir Ćosic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28209	In his presentation, Mr Linic often mixed the terms of operators and regulators, these are important different things. However, I want to point out one thing, it is not true that the current structure of the Council of the Institute was a good solution and we are here in this House clearly pointed out that the Council for the Regulatory of Energy Activities with three employees serves as an institution for the transmission of money to the Institute, the Energy Institute of Hrvoje Pozhar, it is not a good solution and it is an unacceptable solution. This solution is far more high-quality because the agency will have the competences that it should have as a regulatory body in the energy sector with professional people and with appropriate financial revenues. Three employees cannot address quality important and responsible issues in the energy sector of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28210	Minister of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship Branko Vukelic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28211	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Here, allow me a few sentences, more arguments, given these findings made by the respected parliamentary representative Mr. Linic above all about the agency that is proposed to establish and about its independence. Therefore, it is not possible to talk at all about the Agency's dependence on the government or on politics. Otherwise, when in the European Union and discussing the independence of agencies or councils that we now have to regulate energy activities, then it is about independence from HEP and not from the Government or the Parliament. Most European countries have a council or agency appointed by the government. We went here with a proposal that the board, i.e. the administrative board of the agency appointed the Parliament of Croatia, so that we would not put this task to the Government, although we would not put that task to the Government, although I repeat, in most European countries the case. Therefore, this agency, unlike the Energy Regulatory Council of the current one, has another independent happiness that its solution is finally and cannot go to the second stage of the objection and objection to the Ministry or Government, but rather the administrative dispute is being initiated, the procedure. Therefore, the independence of this agnation is also visible, and what is significantly different between this agency and the Council, is that this agency will be far stronger, far more professional, and therefore more independent because it will not be based on 5 people but will be based on a board of directors made up of experts that you will choose here in the Croatian Parliament and from the experts of the agency's staff and unfortunately only now will we get close to these countries, Southeast Europe or I would say these neighbours are very close to that in both the energy system and many other systems far less developed than we are, and they have agencies with 20 people running these jobs. So it's a supplement and a correction to what's not right now. And one more thing I want to point out: it is not true that the debate on these laws has not been conducted in professional circles. All experts were included and members of the Energy Regulatory Council, today, and all observations, most of the observations were incorporated into these laws. Therefore, the debate was held. Unless we want to say that the opinion or position of the expert I trust is the only correct one, I don't recognize the other. However, we must also allow different views of experts, but surely this energy law package, which is a step forward and an improvement in the existing situation, legislation that touches this area, and not to say that we are dealing with one important thing that is important with these laws because you have all been witnesses and discussions are under way on the creation of a common energy market in Southeast Europe. We were all very pleased with our great achievement, and this is the link between the energy system of Southeast Europe in, with the construction and restoration of the Ernestinovo Trafo station, the need to define and regulate electricity trading within the European Union. So within that common market and the basics are therefore precisely in these laws that are before you today, and I think that is why it is important and as soon as possible to pass these laws, and I repeat the laws are very well discussed in all the professional circles that are important for this, for this sector and for this problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28212	Thank you. At 11 he's 5. It's time to apply for a ten-minute hearing. We're going to an individual debate. Honored representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28213	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary with associates, colleagues and colleagues. With these three laws, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Energy Act and then on the Energy Market and on the regulation of energy activities, surely will interest our citizens above all, and what will happen to the electricity market. So far, as it has been seen from all three laws, only 16 large companies that spent more than 40 gigawatts of hours a year and were able to choose suppliers. By passing the proposed laws, however, this limit would be reduced to 20, but we see a certain period when this would happen. Thus, on 1 July 2006, there should be an open market for consumers who spend more than 9 and a year later and for the entire enterprise. And since July 1st, only 2008 for all customers, or for the whole, for all households. But there, what is already my colleague on behalf of the SDP Club, Linic, pointed out that it is among the most important and perhaps what is the most controversial legislative changes involved in the abolition of the now separated activities of the power system management and it unites with the portable. In addition to the single transmission system operator, an operator of the distribution system is introduced, and the market operator is singled out outside the HEP organisational structure. Instead of the current Energy Regulatory Council, this is what is most controversial, the new law provides for the establishment of a Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency as an independent and non-profit institution. The agency, as we have just now had the opportunity to hear from the minister who laughs, and I also came to laugh when he explained all the independence of the members who will settle in this agency, so all the methodologies, or all the tariff systems without the amounts themselves, are brought by the regulatory authority and the height of the tariff items. prices in all tariff systems would therefore again be determined by the Government. The law introduces a provision, which is something and positive that construction, that buildings without a building permit may be connected, that they must not be connected to the energy system, so that neither to the electricity, neither to the gas or to the heat grid. However, the intention would thus result in the government trying to continue the second part of the energy reform launched by the former coalition government in 2001. However, this whole now accelerated package, which should have been considered in detail among experts and thus among the parliamentarians themselves in general, came quickly amongst all the public, and then it is as normal as it may be logical that all reforms, especially when speedy and hasty, are then forced to suffer a lot of criticism, as well as the remarks of experts who themselves point out that a broad expert debate has not been conducted. The laws under emergency procedure are in no way, and especially in this segment do not guarantee that solutions will be appropriate, that solutions will be consistent, and that is why they can achieve the opposite effect of slowing down this reform. This is exactly how it was concluded at the meeting of the Energy Council of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce. But as the government and the general government normally refer to the profession and the fact that the President has just stated to the Council for the Regulatory of Energy Activities in the public that only the Council has given its testimony to this, these legislative proposals that have been submitted to them on more than 20 pages, which has not been addressed by the Ministers. And you see it in a time of great propaganda, great achievements of government, and at the time of the government's open door. It may be that the government remained and opened a window on that occasion, so there may have been a leak where all the remarks, where all the demands were made by the citizens, were experts simply blowing them away. The president of the Council further points out that everything that has been achieved so far should not be destroyed. In any case, it should not be weakened says the position and importance of the regulatory body but should be strengthened exactly the opposite because good regulation is precisely a crucial role for new investments. The weakening of the position of regulators is obviously precisely that the agency is now simply bringing only tariff systems in order to determine the height of the tariff systems of the government. However, the government should now withdraw a little, but certainly withdraw from pricing because that is exactly what the trends in the European Union are about. They're heading towards strengthening the role of regulators. This same Council also believes that retaining all functions within a single market participant is precisely the consolidation of the monopoly, and that the purpose and purpose of further reform is precisely set out by the Government's representatives to achieve the opposite. to establish a market. The Council also believes that retaining all functions within it will cause one participant, and there is no need to dispute at all, will also cause major problems, but in negotiations with the European Union. And it should not be noted that the members of the European Union, starting in France, Great Britain to Slovenia but equally the candidate countries such as Romania and Bulgaria, have singled out a transmission system operator and a vertical company structure. Returning everything to a vertically integrated company will indeed be, according to the president of that council, a red cloth to the European Union. However, whether or not the Government has an answer to this question now is why we are now making it in an urgent and urgent manner of these laws that we will soon have to change at the beginning of the negotiations. And for the citizens, perhaps the most crucial question about all of this is whether it's actually going to be this cheap electricity. It's something that Mr. did right now and when we discuss with these laws, and they're going to do it. It's hard, it's hard because this is usually a deaf time for ordinary citizens' problems.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28214	Representative Nenad Stazic. He's gone. He's losing his word. Representative Ivana Sučec Trakoštanec.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28215	I thank Mr. President, and I will, of course, be very brief in supporting any attempt to introduce order on the energy market of energy generators, distributions and consumer supplies to those who, out of caution, are monitoring all these processes for several reasons. So the first thing that comes from a county that is rich in potential, of course, hydropotentials with natural gas and geothermal waters and where we do not know how to legally enable ownership of these potentials of course production and distribution. And where, of course, we take care of that environmental protection that's always in sync with the use of energy. So on the one hand, you have the benefit and on the other of that opportune, so to speak, the damage. And that opportunity cost which in the economy, of course, economists know what it means is something that our county accesss with special caution. That's one thing. The other thing is, I'm going to be a very open energy isn't just a heat supply or something. Energy is a national wealth, both strategic and national interest. So, the way we're dealing with the state that we're in the Union is one thing, and, of course, we can't be the exception, but I deeply hope that all those involved in this process from the government, the Ministria, the regulatory body and those involved in production, distribution, supply and transferable will take care of the protection and these national interests, therefore I will give support to these laws. but we will, of course, also as Parliament, assume, monitor and adopt tariff systems and adopt price systems. And don't mind me saying that I'm still very careful for another reason. I remember when Croatia sold share in telecommunications when I was one of the MPs who was against the Croatian state selling a majority package in telecommunications and I was right. We were then told that the state of Croatia as a state cannot own telecommunications, it needs a liberal market. It turned out the following, we sold it to Deute Telecom and the majority owner of Duutche Telecom was the German state. So it turns out that the Croatian state cannot own telecommunications but it can be a German state in Croatia. And I am deeply convinced that what will happen in this energy sector that we are talking about today. So with that faith, I'm going to encourage these laws. But with caution, I will monitor their application. And let me, as a consumer, that's the end I want to say here, be allowed to say that I want to introduce order. But that we may sometimes go too far with these wishes, because I have found in the cassle of Croatian HEP's flyers distribution where, of course, wanting to discover those consumers who do not pay contributions that are not in the system of recorded consumers, that some way invites people to denunciation, instead of revealing to their channels experts from their services that are competent to do so where energy is unauthorized. It even offers rewards to those who denunciate their neighbors friends or I don't know who but, if such a case exists. Well, I'm not sure that's the best way. So, I want to introduce order but in a way that's appropriate than a denunciation prize. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28216	Thank you. Honorable representative Vlado Yekovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28217	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Secretary. So here are the three energy laws that form in some way the regulatory energy activity process that started in 2001, and after certain delays to these proposals, this process continues. Of course, there have been some additions over the past few years, so I would also, in some ways, remove or express a different view compared to those who suggest that final laws be postponed rather than other readings. It is absolutely certain that it will be complemented in the next period and will therefore be brought into line with European legislation through these supplements. But also with what daily practice in Croatia will require legislators. These legislative proposals therefore prescribe certain guidelines and other laws that will be introduced, related to energy activity, and so much is needed as quickly and as quickly as possible to pass these laws. Today, in the debate between individual clubs and individual debates, the most spears were somehow broken over the jurisdiction of the Croatian Labour Agency, and the analysis gave its introduction positive or negative. So let's let the time go, but I think that if the Croatian Parliament appoints these people or those members, it can always change them. It also affects its competence through its solutions. A structural energy price is also introduced to ensure that all consumers know what enters that price. In particular, natural persons and small businesses as energy users are protected and it is prescribed that all users have the right to choose to buy electricity. These legislative proposals form a new calculation of the transmission of electricity to abroad. And assumptions are being made for the adoption of sublegal acts which should result in greater liberalisation of the energy market. The fact is and this is what should be particularly apostrophyd in some way, that these legal proposals also begin to eliminate the HEP monopoly and continue the HEP restructuring process and, of course, it should be very careful in these processes. It has not been mentioned so far, I also think that it should be pointed out that these legal acts also create assumptions for improving the use of renewable energy sources in Croatia, which have not been used nearly enough so far, through different benefits and privileged conditions and we believe that this is what we are creating this nuclearus incentivising better use of renewable sources. I therefore support the adoption of these laws, aware that this matter will continue to be complemented by legal solutions, harmonize with European legislation, but also with the needs of life as time and the situation will be imposed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28218	Thank you. Replica, representative Krešimir Ćosic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28219	Well, here's a short replica. Mr Jelkovac argued that the better the solution, the Energy Regulatory Council or agencies, should be given time. I'd like to comment briefly. This is not an approach managed by the government, and so, this methodology, that time is an arbitration of what is a better solution, is simply not acceptable. The government has sought a better solution, the government has found a better solution and the government has proposed a better solution with this law, and I hope that we will soon adopt this better and better solution for a simple reason. The Board of Regulators had two and a half employees. With two-and-a-half employees, they couldn't do such complex and responsible jobs in this country. The agency will be structured in such a way that it can represent all interests in the energy sector which is extremely complex and heterogeneous. So I want to point out one more time. The solution that has been delivered to us, tested and verified in professional circles is better and better quality. The government recognized him, the government proposed him, I believe this House will recognize him and support him. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28220	Replication response. Mr. Representative Vladimir Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28221	I fully agree with what Mr. Cosic said was certainly a better solution to this proposed by the government. I may not have been clear enough in my discussion, but I wanted to point out then that time would also show how this solution is better.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28222	Dear Representative Milan Meden.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28223	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and fellow MPs. As the Republic of Croatia is a signator of the European Energy Charter with the aim of liberalising energy sectors and accessing competition systems to existing transmission and transport systems today, we are discussing legislation on the electricity market as well as regulation of energy activities. In addition to Croatia being a signator of the European Charter, we must ask ourselves fundamental questions as to what kind of energy system Croatia is today in relation to the European environment, which are our objectives, whether we have a clear strategy, whether we have resources that can implement it, above all I mean human potential, how this regulation will apply to the price of the user. Today HEP is a monopoly in Croatia, but we are witnessing that there are no excessive negative reactions from the market at the price. I believe that this is not the reason for the price and quality of the delivery of the service, i.e. energy. The reason is that the user in the monopoly has no choice, so politicisation and media pressures would be in vain. Of course, the simplest thing is not to change regulation, but ultimately for the economy and users is the worst solution. What exactly is our current situation? The reform of the energy sector and, in particular, the reform of the electricity sector represents an extremely complex task, which is very likely the most complex task facing the energy sector in Croatia throughout its history. It is necessary to introduce entirely new relations, define new entities and establish a completely new legal and other regulation in this sector. That this task is not even a little simple, shows examples of problems faced by countries that have a rich tradition of market development and market relations and built institutions of the social and economic system. The Croatian energy sector has just over a year of experience in introducing market relations on the energy sector. There is a need to build institutional relations between entities in the energy sector, which is a particularly delicate task for each country, given the existing universal solutions and with regard to the models in which each country adapts to tradition, heritage and organisation. It should be borne in mind that the energy sector is just a necessary assumption for a smooth development of the economy and society as a whole and that as such is not the purpose of itself. The Energy Regulatory Act aims to open the market, introduce competition, give continuous conditions to all suppliers, and establish regulation that allows for monitoring of the objectives set. It is certainly the most difficult task to protect customers and energy operators, and this goal is achieved only with the assumption of a successful competition, therefore competition. This means that the way to entrepreneurship in the field of energy is not easy. He's ruthless, but he's inevitable. Today in Croatia, the role of regulators is formally performed only by the Board of Regulators, and today we heard, and I didn't even know that it has 3, 5 or 2 and a half employees, as we heard in the debate, and professional affairs and most of these acts are carried out by the Energy Institute "Hrvoje Pozhar". This morning, on the Committee on European Integration, a representative of the legislators of this law called the Institute a non-profit organisation whose employees co-operate closely with the Council. This definition of non-profitism may be a key problem, because certainly one quality regulation cannot be run by volunteers, and the Institute is funded by various projects financed by the government. So the definition of non-profit by the term "proposer" would actually be state, and when we talk about the budget deficit, that's when it's measured in billions of dollars or euros. On the other hand, today MP Slavko Linic spoke about the independence of this Institute, where it is certainly difficult to speak politically about independence, because it is known that he is headed by the former Deputy Prime Minister. The Council, by definition, does not manage the Institute, raises the question of the independence of such a body, as well as the speed of processes that should introduce competence on the electricity market. The Council's reports often mention and call for the provisions of Directive 2003/54/EC, which was discussed by MP Cosic in the context of independence and transparency of the work of energy operators. However, it must be pointed out that the functional and legal independence of energy entities under the same Directive is not linked to ownership, i.e. does not necessarily assume the transfer of ownership to a specific entity. Thus, the independence of the energy system is also highly questionable in this way. Furthermore, I would like to say, regarding the organisation of the work of the Council, therefore the existing Energy Regulatory Council, has so far carried out a number of activities of considerable importance and scope, but it is necessary to consider the necessary personnel teaming and organisation and restructuring of this Council. In particular, it should be borne in mind that the current organisation, the organisational implementation of Council expert support, is unfavourable in terms of the European Commission. In order to bring this regulatory regulation of energy activities in line with European Union directives, this law establishes the Agency for the Regulatory of Energy Activities as a public and independent institution, which has an administrative council headed by the Director. The Agency's core tasks will be to monitor the overall energy system, issue energy performance permits, approve plans for development and construction of the network, control of tariff systems and all other energy entities. When we are actually discussing it this way, it seems that the process of setting up and acting of the Agency is simple and that actually the Agency can start soon or immediately after the New Year. If that were not the case, we also witnessed the Law on Telecommunications of July last year which clearly defined the organisation of the Agency in the next six months. We were all witnesses in the Croatian Parliament when, because of the different views of intricacies or perhaps misunderstandings, we had to postpone the deadline for the establishment of the Governing Council of the Agency, and this current Telecommunications Council was appointed just over a month ago with heated debates in this House. At that time, some of our colleagues had a strong debate on the expertise of the members of the Agency's Council, on their bias, on the influence and lobbying of... operators, and particularly on sharp steps related to the international tender of the third GSM operator, and they called it the reasons of a billion kuna. These representatives may have forgotten to say that the future operator will have to invest a billion kunas in order to perhaps expect a billion kuna profit in 2014. Whether we are expected to have this kind of activity and exhaustive debate with the Governing Council of the Energy Agency, we leave it to time, but for a short time I would like to say and give full support to harmonising with the European Union and regulation, and I personally hold that we are in the field of energy activities in favour. Why? Because HEP is actually the only monopolies right now. Making quality legislation can ensure that competition is entered without great stress in favour of the economy and small consumers. The Regulatory Agency is waiting for a responsible job, but also matches with adverse influences perhaps from state structures, existing monopolies and future potential competitors. Unbiased conditions for the inclusion and participation in the electricity market will be met by harmonised and functional laws, not by transfer of ownership and liability from this or that legal entity, and by experience of the functioning of the electricity system of European countries, as well as on other continents, suggest that security is also for long-term reliability... the consumer is the most well-thinked legal arrangement of the sector, not the positioning of ownership. [[You don't understand.]] The question arises whether the best market organisation guarantees the lowest price. This is primarily what our users are interested in and whether it provides the most reliable option. Not at all. The market is best organised today, I think, in Great Britain, Finland, Spain, we heard maybe in Ireland that is 100% open, but some of the other countries where openness is also 100% related to prices and openness do not confirm. On the other hand, in many countries that have regulated the market and completely opened it after the initial price decline, there is again a trend in price growth, especially for household consumers. So the price is not the lowest in all countries with complete openness. Today we also discussed the privatisation of HEP as the only monopolies. There is a law on the privatisation of HEP that stimulates the participation of workers owned by HEP, but I believe that it is not yet known in detail in which way. Let's be honest, I believe that today we don't know what the real value of HEP is, but I am sure that possible co-ownership and management of HEP by workers would actually be well received in public, and according to European experiences, the government would not be able to slow down such an initiative. And in the end, I conclude that it would be important not only for energy subjects... to have their own interests, but first and foremost in the field of electricity states to recognise long-term and national strategic interests and exploit their strategic position. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28224	Thank you. Honourable representative Zvonimir Puljic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28225	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, Mr. Minister. We have three energy laws before us, the Energy Act, that is, its amendments and additions to the Electricity Market Act and the Energy Regulatory Act. With this legislative package, Croatia is preparing a basis for a follow-up, i.e. a second step in energy reform aimed at liberalising energy markets and enabling third parties to access transmission and transport systems. The first step was taken on 19 July 2001 when the Parliament adopted the Energy Act as a roof law in the energy field and four other laws in this area. Today, however, almost five years after the adoption of these laws, it is evident that the current Energy Act is not complete, it does not cover all the problems especially of those processes and activities that have strengthened not only in Europe but also in us. Such as rationalising consumption and energy efficiency development of cogeneration, i.e. Concomitant production of electricity and heat, i.e. at least two media in the single process, the development of renewable energy sources of bio-mass and bio-fuels, energy protection issues and environmental protection with this activity. These terms are neither present in the applicable law or under-quality, so the existing legal framework has become too narrow to develop energy activities and organise energy markets, or liberalising it. In addition, coordination with a number of European Union documents adopted after 2001 should be carried out. Directive 2003/44/EC foresees a unique transmission system operator transmission system operator, tasked with transferring and managing the power system while our current Energy Act treats and activities as separate. Such a solution, ultimately, would lead to a threat to the security of the power system's drive and, therefore, this law changes the next logic of the technological unity of the existing system and introduces a single transmission system operator in Croatia. Furthermore, technical conditions have recently been created for the expansion of electricity trade in the region, which has been made public with the European Union's top representatives in the Ernestinov Trafo station, so the haste to adopt the amendment of the Energy Act is necessary in order not to halt the process of signing international contracts to prevent us from joining European associations and agreements, as well as to prevent access to funds. The electricity market law, Article 31, lays down deadlines in which customers are gradually given the free choice of electricity suppliers, which provides for this right to be extended to all customers by 1 July 2008 so that the process of opening the whole market will be completed. Of course, he was treated, but in the first stage, the normative privileged buyer from 40 gigawatt hours to 20 gigawatt hours is downgraded to customers with consumption of more than 9 gigawatt hours and on 1 July 2007 for buyers of category entrepreneurs. The energy regulation law of Articles 6 and 7 defines the establishment of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency HERA as an independent non-profit organisation to regulate participants and relations in the entire energy market of Croatia. This is certainly a better solution than this current ineffective regulatory council that does not have its own logistics and has not been able to fulfil the expected tasks. And without further ado, I suggest that we adopt these three energy laws by emergency procedure, as suggested, in order to initiate this process which was actually lagging behind after 2001 and did not meet expectations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28226	Thank you. Final review, Minister Branko Vukelic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28227	Thank you, Mr. President, Your Honor, and Mr. Parliamentarians. Allow me a few sentences after these discussions regarding these three very important energy laws, i.e. amendments to the Energy Act and two of these new laws. First of all, I want to make it clear that it is necessary to pass these laws for several reasons. I'll just say the most important. First, since the adoption of the Law from 2001 to today, the circumstance has been that we have new European Union directives, and these laws, therefore, are laws that need to be brought into line with the legislation of the European Union. And secondly, this year since 2001, which has shown that the existing legislation is not good, that it needs to be changed because of the existing process, I would say, and the liberalisation of the energy market, as well as the restructuring of energy entities in Croatia, has been halted. So it was necessary to pass these laws. And I also want to make it clear that these laws have been made with consultation and agreement with the Commission of the European Union. So, with the European Union. These laws will not experience any red cloth in Europe. So, they were made in agreement with these legal decisions, the Commission of the European Union has been informed, so we have agreement on such a model or these changes or such legal solutions. And just as it is important to say, here someone mentioned, examples of France and even if it is possible, in the examples of the European Union countries, that the transmission operator in the system, therefore, HEP or in the system, therefore, the Vetirl Holding Organisation, is possible and the consultant was, for example, one of the consultants from France because France has this model. So we need to be clear about what we're talking about, facts that are unquestionable. So, these models exist in Europe, they can get the European Commission's green light and are acceptable to us clearly that in the subsequent adoption of sublegal acts and in the implementation of these laws we achieve what needs to be achieved and the independence of individual entities to each other. And what I also want to say again clearly, the Agency, is not at all questionable whether the Agency or the Council for... energy activities. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] There's no country in Europe that doesn't have an agency. The agency model has been accepted everywhere and that is the practice of all European Union countries. The Agency, therefore, is a more quality solution to the regulators of the agencies is more independent, we are changing important things compared to the current status of the Council for... energy activities. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, we are increasing this independence and I think it is this very solution that will get the green light, and I would say, I would edit our legislation when it comes to the energy sector in line with the European Union, but also that these legal solutions will be a quality basis for, with clear, sublegal acts for further, and further restructuring of energy entities in the Republic of Croatia for the abolition of the HEP monopoly and for, clearly, the liberalisation of the energy market in Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28228	Thank you. I am concluding the debate on the final proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Energy Act, on the electricity market and on the Energy Regulatory Act. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we will proceed with the session. We have 33 points for voting, which is the law making other decisions. That's 16 so-called. European laws which in the second reading do in the first reading. Please engage and determine the voting quorum. Please sit in your seat, please, Mr. Baby, Mr. Baby, please sit down. Please have the servers remove these papers that were placed on the benches of the opposition. You can put it on the floor. Did the MPs and MPs identify themselves with the key all of them? I ask that MPs and MPs be identified with the key because not everyone has been identified. [[Intruder: Not yet.]] Mrs. Zdenka Babic. Mr. Prgomett. It's a backpack. Lino Cervar. What? Please quorum. 80 MPs and representatives are present in the hall. We have a quorum. E-mailed. We're going to the vote. Final draft law amending the Energy Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. number 202. One moment. We have two amendments to this proposal for a law, a pardon for five amendments to the Government and a series of amendments to the Committee on Legislatives. In the Electricity Market Act, we have 20 and some amendments to the Government as well as the Energy Activity Regulation Act. Here you go, Mr. Baby.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28230	On behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Club after we have determined that there are 80 MPs present, I would ask that amendments be voted by raising hands because it goes faster, and we have many announced amendments. So that's rational, and I suggest you accept that.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28231	It's about the amendments, okay.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28232	Amendments, and if necessary, other proposals if, if How it's going to happen. [[Thank you very much.]] Thank you. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28233	You have before you a table of amendments to the Legislative Committee. We will now first, since the Government has submitted these 5 amendments after the deadline, we must vote first in accordance with Article 166. Are we going to vote on the government amendments that came after the deadline? Please engage. You can vote. Who is it to discuss and vote the amendments of the Government that came after the deadline of this Law? The result? I find 73 votes in and three. 77 votes for and 3 against, so we will discuss and vote on the government's amendments to this bill. [[/Intruder: 77.]] Minister Vukelic, come in. Please explain briefly Amendment 1.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28234	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear ladies and gentlemen of Parliament MPs, Amendment 1 is subject to the regulation of the Nootechnic Article 3. In accordance with the laws and amendments made by the Legislative Committee, the Government has in this way governed that Article 3(3), Article 3(3) of the Law whether it is.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28235	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. Who's in favour of Amendment 1. Government? Thank you. Against? Restraint? I find that Amendment 1. Governments adopted with 78 votes and 78 votes in favour and 6 abstentions, respectively. 2nd Amendment of the Government.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28236	2. The amendment shall nomotechnically edit Article 17. The law.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28237	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on Amendment 2. Government. Who's for him? I ask individual MPs to closely monitor the result and vote. Thank you. Against? Restraint? I find Amendment 2 to the Government accepted 78 votes in favour, and six abstentions. Amendment 3.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28238	The third amendment Nomotechnically regulates Article 20 of the Law.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28239	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on Amendment 3 to the Government. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? Amendment 3 adopted 78 votes for and six abstentions. Amendment 4.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28240	Amendment 4 Nomotechnically provides for Article 24 of the Law.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28241	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing up. I am voting on Amendment 4. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Restraint? Ministers, I have to listen very carefully I ask you not to talk if you want to talk I'll interrupt a little session so you're welcome to talk in the hall of the Parliament. I can't hear you. I find Amendment 4 passed with 78 votes for and six abstentions. And Amendment 5.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28242	Amendment 5 replaces the whole text of the law of the word "body responsible for regulation" with the words "agency". So nomotechnically.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28243	I'm opening the debate. I am voting on Amendment 5 of the Government. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Abstained? And I ask the MPs while I say no, until when I get a sign that they don't put their hands down depending on how they vote. I find Amendment 5 accepted by 78 votes and five abstentions. We are now going to the amendments of the Legislative Committee. Ministers first amendment to Article 3
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28244	The first amendment is not accepted, as the government's amendment is practically incorporated into the proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28245	President of the Boras Committee on Legislatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28246	Since this amendment is actually consummated by the government amendment, I agree and withdraw the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28247	Amendment 1 withdrawn. Amendment 2 to Article 5
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28248	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28249	It becomes an integral part of the law. Amendment to Article 6, third.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28250	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28251	It becomes an integral part of the law. This Regulation shall It's becoming a watchful part of the law. Eighth to Article 17.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28253	It is not accepted, because the government amendment practically caught what it proposed.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28254	Consent and withdrawing the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28255	The board's been withdrawn. Eight. Article 19.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28256	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28257	It becomes an integral part of the law. 10 per Article 20.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28258	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28259	It becomes an integral part of the law. 11 per Article 27.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28260	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28261	It becomes part of the law. 12 in Article 28.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28262	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28263	It becomes an integral part of the law. Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 of the European
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28264	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28265	It becomes an integral part of the law. Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the final draft law amending and supplementing the energy law. Please engage. Please vote. For what? Score. I find that with 79 votes in, two against no abstentions. 2 abstentions, with no votes against the law on amendments and additions to the energy law in the text, as proposed by the Proposer, together with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28266	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28267	It becomes an integral part of the law. Article 8
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28268	Sustained. It becomes an integral part of the law. Article 9
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28271	It becomes an integral part of the law. For the purposes of this Article, the following definitions shall apply:
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28272	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28273	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we now have three laws on the agenda. - Final bill amending and supplementing the energy law, emergency procedure, first second reading of P.Z.E. No. 202; - Final draft law on the electricity market, emergency procedure, first and second reading of P.Z.E. No. 200; - Final bill on regulation of energy activities, emergency procedure, first and second reading of P.Z.E. No. 203; Given the matter, I propose, and this is also a proposal from some club representatives to conduct a united debate on these three draft laws. With club representatives having an extra five minutes in the debate. Does the Parliament agree with that? Yeah. Thank you very much. I ask Minister Branko Vukelic of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship to further explain these three draft laws.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28274	Thank you, Mr. President of the Parliament. Dear ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. Here are three laws, energy laws that are very important and above all, which are changes to the energy law and new laws on electricity triangulation and the law on regulation of energy activities. Refort energy sector in the Republic of Croatia began in July 2001 when the Croatian Parliament adopted the concept of reform adopted a package of energy laws. This enables, among other things, the creation of an institutional energy sector framework with particular emphasis on energy market liberalisation. The five Directives of the European Union that came into force after 2001 are newly regulating issues in the energy sector. The additional reason for amending these laws is also the difficulties in implementing the energy sector reform under existing laws. It is necessary to redesign an existing system and market operator by setting up a transmission system operator to perform integrated power system management and power transmission functions. It is necessary to separate the market operator from HEP. Such a solution brings unique responsibility for the security of the electricity system and is in line with solutions in most European countries. Further opening of the market requires a more operational energy regulator. So short a few sentences about each of these laws. Amendments to the Energy Act. The energy law is a roof law for all laws in the energy sector and provides a comprehensive legal framework for the sector. This law sets out, first and foremost, the structure of regulated and free energy prices. Methodology for the determination of tariff items with a height of headings. And jurisdiction over its adoption which is reasonably assigned to the Government, the Ministry of Regulatory and Energy Entities to which a particular tariff system is concerned. The law also accurately formulate general conditions for energy supply and consumer protection measures. To speed up solving the problem of illegal construction, these amendments to the law prohibit the collection of buildings with a construction permit on energy networks. The electricity market law lays down regulated and marketable electricity activities. How to obtain the status of a privileged producer, and the right to encourage. As well as the procedures for granting approval for the construction of new power plants, and the publication and execution of a public tender if access is to be opened for that construction. The law lays down the responsibilities and responsibilities of transmission operator and distribution system operator. AND their independence in a vertically integrated company. The independence of electricity loads from electricity transmission and distribution activities and the obligation of all suppliers to assume electricity from renewable energy sources and generation as well as the obligation of public information providers is regulated. Special emphasis is on the protection of customers from the category of households and small customers. Additional roles of market operators in the performance of operations, e.g. the calculation of balancing energy, and the collection and distribution of funds for the promotion of renewable energy sources and cogeneration have been established. The annual spending limit has been reduced to obtaining preferential customer status, from 40 to 20 gigawatt hours, and dynamics have been established until the market is finally opened. The public service obligation of supply and the rights and obligations of privileged and tariff buyers has been established in a transparent manner. The transitional and final provisions of the law lay down the obligations of HEP for the provision of public services and for the establishment of a new structure, in particular the separation of supply and distribution. Issuing of market operators from HEP and public service obligations of customers who are left without suppliers or who do not wish to use the status of a privileged buyer. In order to establish and implement the regulation of energy activities, the system of regulated action of energy subjects, and the establishment and arrangement of the energy market by the new energy regulation law, it is proposed to establish an independent, independent, non-profit, public institutions called the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency. The founder of the agency is proposed that the Republic of Croatia, the agency for its work, corresponds to the Croatian Assembly, this law regulates the internal structure of the agency, accurately determines and determines its business and activities as an activity of special state interest. For example, these are the tasks of disposing of permits to carry out energy activities. By providing methodologies and supervision of the application of tariff systems. Control of the work of energy subjects. All of the so far, this is important to say, the acts of the Council for the Regulatory of Energy Activities and all the solutions of that Council and the permits are valid for the time of the one issued, so it simply ensures the continuity of the current council and the new agency. The reasons why this law is important and important to adopt already and this year are not only a alignment with the European Union directives but also our international obligations and the need to be members of European associations so that we can use the funds, that we are moving towards the liberalisation of the energy sector as quickly as possible. To regulate the position of renewable energy sources and cogenerations that have not been legally regulated so far. In view of the need to establish a level of operationality in the work of regulators and normal compliance with the way energy law, electricity market law and energy regulation law. Therefore, I ask you to adopt these amendments to the law on energy and new laws on the electricity market and the law on energy regulation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28275	Thank you, Minister. Do the committee's reporters want to see it? The European Integration Committee. President Neven Mimica, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28276	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary, dear colleagues and fellow MPs. The Committee on European Integration has today been united to discuss these three proposals. Let's call them the energy package. And as an interested working body, the Committee unanimously means all 7 members present and members of the Committee, has confirmed that these laws are sufficiently consistent at this time with the legal gain of the European Union. And that full harmonisation is coming after the adoption of sublegal acts in time to Croatia's accession to the European Union. In addition to this confirmation of European coherence, the debate expressed its opinion that, because of the importance of this matter for the overall functioning of the energy system, and because of the fact that there is no time-limit for harmonisation that would require an emergency procedure, it is better to go with these laws without an emergency procedure, i.e. that these laws should be discussed in a regular procedure. However, I say, as far as European harmonisation is concerned, the Committee has confirmed a sufficient level of coherence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28277	Thank you very much. Chairman of the Committee on Economics, Honorable Representative Drago Pukleš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28278	Your Honor, Mr. President, the Honorable Minister, the Honorable Representatives. The Committee on the Economy, Development and Reconstruction of the Croatian Parliament at the 21st session held on 29 November 2004 discussed the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on energy with the Final Proposal of the Law, the proposal for a regulation of energy activities with the Final Proposal for a Law and the Proposal for a Law on the Market of Electricity with the Final Proposal for Law, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia by the Act of 18 November 2004, with a proposal to comply with Article 159. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament of Laws shall be adopted by an urgent procedure. The Committee shall be within the meaning of Article 67. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament discussed the above-mentioned Bills as a parent working body. On a proposal from the Committee president, the Committee discussed the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Energy Act with the Final Proposal for Law, the emergency procedure, the 1st and 2nd reading, the proposal for a law on the electricity market with the final draft law, the emergency procedure, the 1st and 2nd reading and the proposal for a law on energy regulation with the final draft law, the emergency procedure 1st and 2nd reading. In his opening statement, the applicant's representative pointed out that the regulatory energy activity process started in 2001 and that, after a short delay in these legislative proposals, the process continued. When drawing up these legislative proposals, binding guidelines of the European Union have been taken into account, in particular those 5 relating to these legislative proposals. The applicant specifically pointed out that according to the European Union directives, the energy system should be guided in a way that enables basic decisions to be made in one place. These legislative proposals prescribe guidelines for other laws to be passed and are related to energy activity. A request for a structured energy price has also been introduced, so that all consumers know what enters that price. Particularly protected are natural persons and small businesses, as energy users. It is prescribed that all users have the right to choose to buy electricity. The proposing representative also stressed the jurisdiction of the Croatian regulatory agency whose decisions are final, which means that only judicial protection can be sought against them. These legislative proposals have established a new way of calculating the transmission of electricity abroad. The adoption of these laws is a presumption of the adoption of sublegal acts in the field of energy which should result in greater liberalisation of the energy market. In the opening of the debate, the Committee President met the members of the Committee with the material of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce whose representative pointed out that HEP supports the adoption of the proposed laws, while INA and JANAF have objections which are united in that material. The basic observation by INA and JANAF is that, in view of the importance of the matter regulated by these legislative proposals, they should go into the regular procedure of adoption without the application of an emergency procedure. The representative of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce has proposed that the fundamental law relating to the harmonisation of Croatian legislation with the legislation of the European Union should also be discussed in regular procedure. The president of the trade union in Croatia's electricity industry stressed that these legal proposals begin the abolition of the HEP monopoly and continue the process of restructuring of HEP. Following the discussion, the Committee unanimously reached the next conclusion. It is supported by the adoption of the Law amending and supplementing the Energy Act, the adoption of the Energy Regulation Act and the adoption of the Electricity Market Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28279	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'm opening a club debate. Croatian Democratic Community Representatives' Club, respected representative Kresimir Cosic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28280	Your Honor, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary, ladies and gentlemen. The 2001 Energy Act, as known, is a roof law for all other laws in the field of energy. It was prepared nearly 5 years ago, and it is understandable today that it is not in line with the new European Union directives adopted in 2003 and there are legitimate reasons for updating it. Because of this, it is not enough framework for all other laws in the energy sector and the efforts of the Government of Croatia to modernise and update it have been fully justified and therefore here today we are discussing this package of laws. I'll just point out some shortcomings in this law. The current Energy Act provides that energy activities are separate from the transmission of electricity and the management of the electricity system. That's not good for many reasons. Not only because of the fact that this does not correspond to European knowledge today, but simply the necessary level of synergy and uniform management of the electricity system management system and the transmission system enables far greater efficiency of the system as a whole. Furthermore, Directive 203 54 EC does not know a separate system operator from an energy transmission operator, but only a single transmission system operator, tsl TSO transmission system operator to be responsible for the following tasks: ensuring the long-term capacity of the demand system, contributing to security of supply, managing energy flows in the network, informing the operator of adjacent networks, non-discrimination of network users, informing network users etc. In addition, there are additional reasons why it was necessary to update the existing energy law. A very significant problem of rationalising energy consumption, i.e. The increase in energy efficiency is not sufficiently defined and regulated by the current Energy Act and no compliance with the European Union directives has been achieved. The relevant law further does not adequately and sufficiently clearly describe the tariff systems and the procedures for their adoption for certain energy activities. Furthermore, the applicable gas economy law does not cover the energy activity of natural gas supply. In addition, natural gas supply and natural gas distribution activities as public services do not have a regulated price tariff methodology. Furthermore, as regards oil and petroleum products, the applicable law does not include the energy activities of biofuel production, oil pipeline transport, oil and oil transport, and oil derivatives and biofuels by road vehicles. This is due to the fact that the energy operators present cannot obtain authorisations to carry out the activities for which they are otherwise qualified. Furthermore, the adoption of this law and all the laws that we are discussing today, which are related to this law, will result in the opening of the energy market according to the European Union directives and will contribute to the rapid liberalisation of the energy sector and the rationalisation of energy entities in the Republic of Croatia. I will stress only some important elements relating to harmonisation with European Union directives and documents, the adoption of common rules on the electricity market, the adoption of common rules on the internal market for natural gas, the adoption and promotion of the use of electricity from renewable energy sources, the promotion of cogeneration based on the use of useful heat and the promotion of the use of biofuels and other renewable fuels in transport. So from all that's been said, it's quite clear that for the past five years they've made important changes in the existing Energy Act. So the main objective of this bill is to better identify and regulate all energy activities in the Republic of Croatia, ensure a unique view of all energy activities, a single management and management system with all the important parts of this complex energy system in the Republic of Croatia. Establish a more comprehensive legal framework for other energy sector laws in order to make production, transfer, distribution and supply of energy to all customers in the Republic of Croatia more reliable and efficient. In addition, all documents place particular emphasis on environmental protection measures, renewable energy, cogeneration and energy efficiency. Now allow me a few words about the proposal for a law on energy regulation. Recently in this House, we discussed the Council's annual report on energy regulation. We took note of it, with certain observations which were primarily related to the fact that the Energy Regulatory Council has, in accordance with the existing law, significant means to charge for the provision and authorisation of activities in the energy sector. However, this Energy Regulatory Council had only three employees with such significant revenues and I personally suggested that we be provided with a report on the financial operations of the Energy Regulatory Council, but here we are today discussing a proposal for a law on the regulation of energy activities which, in some ways, dodging or abolishing the Energy Regulatory Council, which really makes sense and justification, I would like to say a few words. The Republic of Croatia is a signator of the European Energy Charter, which has been established to accelerate the liberalisation of the energy sector and allow third parties to access existing transmission and transport systems of energy in the Republic of Croatia. The aim of opening the market is to give all energy suppliers an equal opportunity to supply customers with objectively visible and impartial conditions, and the establishment of regulation should allow for control of the achievement of the objectives set. The proposed law, as I said about regulation of energy activities, establishes and this is highlighted in the opening section, the Agency for the Regulatory of Energy Activities as a public and independent institution that is structured as follows. She has her own board of directors, she needs to have her own board president, she has an agency, i.e. staff of the Agency and she should have a director as an appropriate professional. The Administrative Board of the Energy Regulatory Agency shall be appointed by the Croatian Parliament. I hope that we will have this very soon in the Croatian Parliament in the procedure, and the director is elected by the administrative council as an expert in the public competition. The Statute of the Agency shall be adopted by the Administrative Board of the Agency, with the prior consent of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The activities of the Agency shall be of particular interest to the Republic of Croatia and shall be carried out by the Agency on the basis of public authority. That's quite understandable from everything that's been said so far. Any acts for which the adoption is solely competent, shall be adopted by the Administrative Board of the Agency on a proposal from the Director of the Agency. The President of the Governing Council shall manage the work of the Agency, represent and represent the Agency, and shall organise expert work to prepare all proposals to the Governing Council. The annual report on the overall situation in the energy sector, as well as the financial report, on the implementation of the financial plan, shall be submitted by the Agency to the Croatian Parliament and the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I stress and repeat the existing structure of the Energy Regulatory Council, according to which it consists of only five members standing here, I said three, disabling its independent and active performance in the field of energy regulation and we really had an important institution that was actually fictitious, but as the virtual institution says today, because such important responsibilities, the responsibilities of the activities of the institution with only a few employees could not be carried out. How did she do those jobs? They were carried out in the following way, that most of them, or almost all of the professional tasks for the purposes of the Council, were carried out by the Energy Institute "Croatian Fire" as an institution over which the Council had no control. In such circumstances, the Council does not have the necessary conditions or has not had the necessary conditions to exercise its functions independently of the regulatory body in the field of energy regulation and this has led to difficulties in carrying out energy activities and the establishment of energy markets with the potential for long-term serious consequences, so such a Council work organisation had to be abolished and this is what we are likely to vote on Friday and adopt. It should, in particular, be pointed out once again that the Agency for the Regulatory of Energy Activities in the scope of its affairs, by jurisdiction, is stronger than many ministries in the Republic of Croatia. I usually make fun of myself, it's practically one strong ministry, the Ministry of Energy, but for reasons of simpler management at the government level, that institution has a title as agreed and adopted, i.e. The Agency for the Regulatory of Energy Activities. Justifying such an important institution with this law is only the first step. Functioning, especially the quality functioning of this Agency is a job that will take a long time, and the first step is extremely important, i.e. the installation of quality people in view of the complexity of the tasks for which the Agency will be competent, especially the leaders. A good law doesn't have to be good in implementation. Without quality good people capable of coping with all these challenges, the Agency will not be able to meet the challenges and I hope that this issue, which is just as important as the law itself, will pay special attention. Furthermore, a few words on the proposal for a law on the electricity market. As is known, by implementing the provisions of the Electricity Market Act, and by respecting the provisions of the Energy Act, on 1 July 2002, Croatia's electricity industry was transformed into a system of related societies of basic and accompanying activities. Respecting the provisions of the Law on Commercial Companies, Croatia's electricity, as is known, is organized as a concept called HEP Group, run by the ruling company Croatia's electricity industry, and all the others below are listed companies over which Croatia's electricity has a dominant influence. It is HEP production, HEP transmission, HEP distribution and HEP supply. The adoption of the Energy Act, the Law on the Regulatory of Energy Activities and the Law on the Market in Electricity practically emanates one serious and large process of restructuring the HEP. What reasons for the restructuring of HEP according to this Law have already been said and I just want to point out once again. In particular, it is a significant unsustainable alignment with the requirements of Directive 2003-54-EC. As a result, this Law will introduce, along with a single transmission system operator, what we have said, the integration of transmission and management systems, the introduction of a distribution system operator, as well as a market operator. This is the important element since today's market operator is in HEP structure and this is in line with the European Union directives, in line with the requirements on the liberalisation of the energy market, is not acceptable. Therefore, there are very complex and important structural changes ahead of HEP for all of these reasons. Finally, such a solution as is known is a European standard. The establishment of the so-called The TSO operator is the task ahead. First of all, it would point out, especially and important because of the international obligations of the Republic of Croatia, i.e. because of the positioning of the formal and strategic Croatian transmission system operator in international frameworks. There is a near signing of important international contracts, i.e., accession to the European Association of transmission system operators, so-called ETSO. And positioning of the Croatian transmission system operator in the bodies of the European Electricity Transfer Association, UCTE. Finally, for all these reasons, the Croatian Democratic Community Club strongly supports this great effort by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to modernise the energy sector of the Republic of Croatia as a whole. And as I said, the first step in modernising this energy sector, this energy system is to adopt a certain package of laws. Again, I stress, in the end, the implementation and implementation of these laws is, I would say, far more complex tasks and more responsible than the definition of laws and their adoption. And for this reason, the Croatian Democratic Community Club expects the implementation of all these laws to be made as high-quality, organised and efficient as this first step towards modernising the legislative system of the Republic of Croatia in the energy sector. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28281	Thank you. HNS representative club, PGS, respected representative of Jaksa Marasovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28282	On my big surprise Friday these laws were included in the agenda. Remember a few weeks ago, which month of discussion on the Council's report on regulation, and no matter what fellow Cosic says we took it into consideration, it seemed to me that we were thinking a little more seriously about this report and what he was saying. It seemed to me that in the Parliament, as well as in the Croatian public, I would say, in a different way than in terms of energy, especially in terms of electroprivreda. I will repeat today, in the 7th month of 84, the last decisions were made on the construction of an energy facility, a source, therefore, of an energy building for production. That's more than 20 years. That's one fact for you. Another fact is that we, depending on the hydrological year, produce between 40 and 50% of total energy as hydroenergy, and the rest or produce from other sources, therefore, and the thermo-source or import. The third fact is that the growth in energy consumption in Croatia is between 4% and 8% in recent years. Unfortunately, not because our industry is growing, but because of a growing comedy. Well, you have a situation where in the Adriatic you have, despite the fact that in winter people are heating up on electricity, you have the same consumption in summer and winter in the last few years. I'll list one more fact. Losses in the distribution and transmission network are 17% in Croatia. To illustrate, in the world it's between 5% and 7%. Now, if we know all that and there's a lot more to know, we're now saying in a hurry, without any analysis of the big, no big debates in professional circles, we say, let's pass energy laws, a package of energy laws. And what do we change about those in 2001 and 2002? We're terminating the Board of Regulators, that's one thing. We set up the Agency and abolish the market operator we return to the vertical in the transmission d.d., HEP transfer d.d. It works, on the grounds that we are doing so in order to comply with European Union directives or market liberalisation, and then we return that operator to whoever holds the monopoly. We are very, very much in line with European directives and very, very liberal about the markets. Because that, you know, is what I'd say, if you were buying, you were going to buy a car, and you were going to buy Mitschubishi, but you came to the Mercs store, and now you're going to buy a Mercedes, right? So that's one of the reasons why these laws change. On the third side of me, I cannot be taken away from the suspicion that such an approach, such an emergency, is not preparing something that I think would be very bad for Croatian energy, which is the faster the sale of Croatian, Croatian energy system. In fact, they cannot be kidnapped for the simple reason that in most of the countries of transition that have already entered the European Union something similar has happened and sold on their regrets, today they regret what they have done because they are far away from GDP, per capital from the European Union, from the former members of the European Union and are now completely dependent on Europe's energy system to our happiness or disaster Europe, and it is dependent on Russia, so today they are not managing their system, but manages the European Union, manages Brussels and manage the bosses who bought it. We have, as I said, about 40% of the production from hydropower produced for free today, because all these power plants were built more than 20 years ago, and some 40 years ago, and some of them, even 100 years ago, and they produce electricity practically free of charge, because they have no depreciation and now imagine a situation where we can find ourselves having discussions about it in Croatia, whether Jaksa Marasovic or someone like that will sell some land to a stranger who is a question of what value it is. And that we're going to sell something that's a national treasure, because it's water, because it's a drop that exists on our waterways, and that's why we get electricity. That's what we're going to sell, and it seems to me that the great danger of this urgency, which we've come to realize today, is that at the very least I could ask the MPs to remove the emergency procedure from these laws, to take this as a first reading and see what to do in the analyses in the next few months before these laws are passed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28283	Thank you. The HSP club is a respected representative of Miroslav Rožic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28284	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Gentlemen and Madam Representatives. It's really a lot of times I'd say fun or less fun to listen to the same subject change attitudes and thinking depending on whether you're in power or you're in opposition. In fact, this is about a package of laws that speaks about regulation of energy activities, i.e. the electricity market and energy. This package of laws is actually the beginning of a break-up with the concept of regulating the Croatian energy market, especially the electricity created between 2000 and 2003. When this concept was adopted and I remind you during the summer extraordinary session of 2000 in the late night hours, which my colleague Slaven Letica would say, when wise owls were hunting mice, then in 2000 at that extraordinary session HSP warned of the unsustainability and harmfulness of Croatian economic interests of such concept. The whole concept was rapid and there is really nothing in the material titled the Croatian energy sector reform proposal, in which even eight pages without any financial indicator suggested such a concept of reform of the Croatian energy sector. So, reforming and liberalising the electricity system. But that is why there was no lack of much appeal then to the European Commission directives and membership in the European Union, all to actually justify the introduction of a system that had not yet been brought to life anywhere back then in 2000. And those who actually tested it and tried it like Italy and Greece now at this same time that we're discussing it, that concept now give up on it. So today we are witnessing that through these changes in the law and the Republic of Croatia such as Italy and Greece finally give up that concept from the system. The changes in the energy system are not harmless, because without any patheticity, it is literally about the economic blood flow of the state, and companies and companies in the field of energy are generally both in capital and in profit strongest in every country in the world. That is why no country is concerned about who or how or in whose interest it directs visions of the development of energy. In addition, INA and HEP are worth at least four and a half billion dollars in the most modest judgments, and any change in energy prices or oil derivatives has a dramatic impact on the economy, as well as on citizens' standards throughout the economy. However, in the Republic of Croatia everything was in the hands of the Energy Regulatory Council, which actually consists of 5 members. And for those five members of this Energy Regulatory Council, there was no sophisticated professional service, but all the professional support for their decisions was provided by the Institute of Fire. So, whether it is electricity or gas tariffs, the restructuring of INE and HEP, the planning of development, etc., all decisions were subject to the famous professional influence of the Institute "Croatia Pozar" and its director, the famous strategy of Goran Granić, and of course not for free, but equally not necessarily professionally and impartially and of course not necessarily in the national interest of Croatia. More specifically, without excess environments, the whole system has been regulated by law so far that the director of the "Croatian Fire" Institute was actually the master of Croatia's energy sector. It is therefore logical to establish a private agency with the Council as its professional service when it is already going to create an independent regulator, a liberal energy market. So why all the rush to liberalising the energy sector when no one in Croatia knows exactly how much electricity our country will need in 5 or 25 years. How much energy will we be able to recover from our investments, for example in Serbia, Bosnia and Herzegovina? No national development strategy has yet been developed. The alleged reason for the reform of the energy sector, i.e. the law on the liberalisation of the electricity market, which was discussed by the Parliament in 2000, was Croatia's involvement in European integration. But that's certainly completely pointless. Why? In particular, the 1997 European Union Directive on the liberalisation of the electricity market advocates national sovereignty over its own energy and transport systems, i.e. power lines, pipelines, pipelines, etc. In addition, the said directive provides for 2 equal underlines the equal model of regulating electricity markets, so on. The open market model, which was in fact the basis of that 2000 strategy. Based on the example of part of the EU member states and even more famous California. In other words, from the other old model of the only buyer that is in power in Croatia today. And they apply it in the European Union, including Italy, France and Ireland. So, if the Italians, French and Irish, along with this system of the only buyer, recorded economic growth within the European Union, why could it not continue to apply to Croatia? At that time, however, the government chose an open market model that envisioned the development of INA and HEP to private private companies that freely, therefore without state control, trade in energy and fuel. However, Croatia's national interest is to monitor its market energy in the model of the only buyer. Not even the most concerned supporters of the free market in the European Union or in the United States would allow themselves, for example, to be monitored by 75 to 80% of the energy market. The privatisation of HEP also meant the sale of Croatian family silver. In addition, newly created private companies will not have the conditions to survive, so they will gladly increase electricity prices differently in different parts of Croatia. The fight of private profit companies will eliminate their will to expand power plants and improve the transport network, and contrary to the current obligation of HEP to provide electricity to everyone in the territory of Croatia, this new model of the open market involves consumer freedom to choose the most favourable energy supplier, even outside Croatia. the freedom to import electricity, for example from Ukraine. But at the same time, the freedom of energy suppliers to choose a buyer of electricity outside Croatia, for example, in Italy. No matter how much Croatia really needs energy right now. So none of the privates in that model are responsible for, for example, the lack of electricity, because they actually aim at profit, i.e. exporting electricity where it can be sold without risk. All of these happened in California. After privatising and liberalising the electricity market according to the open market model and causing energy supply instability and power reductions, watch out for power cuts in California. This, however, would cause even more suffering and power reduction in Croatia than those we witnessed in 92. On the other hand, a sharp rise in electricity and fuel prices, which would completely affect the Croatian economy. Although work is fortunately far behind us, Croatia has no reason to repeat California's mistakes today. All Croatian residents with discomfort remember periods of power cuts during the war years. It is possible, however, that we will experience a reduction of electricity throughout Croatia in a few years, for example. For those who do not consider it possible, it is worth mentioning the news of the CCN as of 18 January this year in connection with the power shortage in California. So, in California with such a successful economy that it would belong to the eight richest countries in the world if, by any chance, it was independent, in January of this year even the famous Governor Schwarzenegger and his government were tortured by power shortages. California was missing 18 gigawatts a day, so just before the summer heats when the air conditioning device greatly increases energy consumption. The crisis hasn't been resolved until today. The state of California imported some electricity from other countries, and it paid off part of the debt only to the largest private distributor, a private electricity distributor in California, which is "Pacific GS and eletic", which, after all of that, was bankrupt. The governor proposed austerity measures for higher electricity consumption and increased electricity prices by 150 to 300%. Sounds very familiar to you, 'cause so? So the whole thing is out in California to the citizens, who are the least guilty of it. Of course, far from me wanting to compare Croatia with California, which is no longer necessary to doubt whether such a vital economy is going to know how to get out of this energy crisis, especially since Governor Arnold Schwarzenegger is. Yet if California could afford so much trouble from the so-called. The liberalisation and model of the open electricity market, what would happen to Croatia then? That's why we at the HSP Club repeat what we said in 2000. It must leave the open market model urgently and return to the only buyer model, such as Italy or as such a model in the European Union has France, Ireland and some other countries. And secondly, don't forget that with this package of laws here today, the proposed law on the privatisation of HEP has to be changed, otherwise nothing will be done, this will remain a dead letter on paper. Unfortunately, we lost most of our INA. Therefore, leaving the open market model and changing the HEP Privatisation Act would finally protect the Croatian electricity system from the risk of collapse and protect the Croatian economy from possible collapse. The only damage could then be suffered by Croatian Energy Strategy Goran Granic due to the decline in the value of the shares of the Institute of Hrvoje Pozar, but I think it is a damage that we can all bear. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28285	Thank you. Dear Representative Slavko Linic SDP's Club of Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28286	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Mr. Secretary. The SDP club assesses that the proposed package of laws has come to an urgent debate and surprising. Why surprising? Because we don't see the reason for this... We really don't see her. Four years ago, a reform of the energy system began, and it is evident that after four years, a studio evaluation of such a reform should be approached and then expected experts to propose changes, complement and take the greatest burden of new amendments and additions to the law. Unfortunately, the whole package is in front of us overnight, which means the experts weren't involved in making these documents. It is evident that it is part of the experts who are employed in HEP and that here we have experts who primarily seek to define their opinion on the basis of the interest of HEP. The question is whether what is called the continuation of the reform is what is called and the attempt to prepare our system for the European market, but also the question is whether this will finally enable us to invest in the electricity system and finally build energy capacities that we haven't had in more than 20 years. So, the biggest drawback for all of us who have to discuss today is that we don't have that score, which happened in four years. These materials that are in front of us are not listed. In fact, it is likely for political reasons that it is evident that it is silenced that what happened this four years, we have no quality comments. It's like nothing's happened in the last four years. And as we can see from the debates so far, we have a lot of groundbreaking actions and steps in the process of creating an energy market in Croatia. But since we are represented in such a situation, we obviously need to show ourselves about the proposals that are ahead of us so that we can in some way make a decision in the vote itself. The SDP estimates that with the proposed laws, we only have a few important changes, so it is important to highlight them. This is a change in which the transmission regulator returns to HEP and HEP is now becoming a vertical organisation related to electricity. It's the biggest change. Return of transmission regulators or transmission operator to HEP. It's an important change and we're going to talk more about whether it's good and whether it's making a difference. Secondly, what we see is the government's policy proposal, which is the reduction of an independent operator in regulation of market legality in the energy sector and, of course, the formation of an agency directly under the influence of the Government, means direct interference of the government in the electricity market and other energy sources, given that the agency is no longer an independent body and that it has an impact on the entire system of regulators. And what is also important to note, given that this reform is now trying to show itself as a new process we have a two-year delay, I would say privatisation processes. I'd say investment in the energy sector, but two years is a delay in tariff systems. Therefore, and our expectations that we will finally be able to discuss the tariff systems in particular the supply of electricity. It's about the important newspaper of this package that's ahead of us. And that's why when we talk about SDP's position even though we haven't defined it hard yet so that we can accept this kind of package-making approach and that we can approach it, accept these proposals since these are the newspapers that are here before us. It may still be necessary to indicate that we are assessing even though this whole package is also called for by the European Union Directives, it is evident that these directives have been well prescribed but that the reform resulting from these Directives has not been introduced into these laws. And that this is essentially just one of the beginnings of the opening of the Croatian energy market and the attempts I would say modernising the energy market without those moves that we are obviously going to have to do what will be difficult for us after negotiations with the Commission during the negotiation proceedings. Therefore, under other people's pressure, and not because we would have today a proposal from experts who must see what this is for 20 years the energy market in the Republic of Croatia. And a few hints about the individual law. The characteristics of the Energy Act are the process of returning regulators to the vertical organisation of HEP. That's what we can judge whether it's good or not. It is evident that the process of returning the transmission operator would not be good for the SDP to return to HEP. Whatever we think about the privatisation processes of HEP is possible to happen. Whatever we think about new investments in the gas thermal power plant that needs Croatia, in the Hydropower plant at Virje. Whether HEP will do this, whether it will work private capital in Croatia is always a fundamental issue of electricity transmission, how much the return to HEP will be an obstacle to the transmission of electricity produced in Croatia from private capital or the transfer of electricity beyond our borders it will only be seen with these new solutions. It is also evident in the solutions so far, especially since 2000, that the interest of Croatia must be that the operator in the transmission of electricity must be a company owned by the Croatian state, it is a monopoly and over that monopoly must feel the politics of the Croatian state. Therefore, there should be neither privatisation processes nor the interest of a private company, or, say, mixed companies, or tomorrow will be owned in HEP depending on the future that will take place in Croatia for privatisation processes. Therefore, by returning to HEP there is a problem especially if the HEP Privatisation Act is not changed to get private owners, regardless of whether it will be strategic, whether it will be financially and over the transfer which should not be allowed and we try to understand that new construction and gas power plants and Hydropower plants will require private capital. It may be pension funds, but it's unacceptable for them to own the transfer, it's unacceptable. And that is the weakness of this solution that has been offered. So much for talking about transfer decisions... So much for talking about transfer solutions. What I'm trying to say is that's also gas-related discounts. We find that storage of gas and gas distribution is a public activity, not a commercial activity that confuses these solutions, it is evident that we will try to address the amendments to these shortcomings. But we still see one problem. The biggest problem in Croatia is different prices. 28 different prices in gas distribution. And now there was an opportunity to have a unique gas price system in distribution in Croatia. And that could have been solved, there's no solution offered in the Energy Act. Speaking of the electricity market, we return to the assessment of whether the transmission operator means a stable market if it is independent. That simply with the ownership roles of the Croatian state, the complete control of the Croatian state over an independent operator can enable investment in Croatia in new capacities. In new capacities that we haven't built in 20 years, into new hats that will cause us trouble. Because we have a deficit problem, we have problems with new investments. It's just that the international financial world is trying to stop and control us in investment. HEP will not be able to fully enter the new gas plant of the new hydropower plant. Will such solutions stop foreign capital, domestic capital, huge capital in pension funds that could finally move towards energy and reduce Croatia's dependence on energy imports. Therefore, I think that part that speaks of the transmission operator is badly solved both with one law and the other. And of course we're going back here to basic conflicts in surveillance, and that's the Law on the regulation of energy activities. I also listened to my predecessor talking about the negative role of the Hrvoje Fire Energy Institute. Indeed, we in Croatia must ask ourselves what is happening to us. If the problem is one man, then let's talk about a man but the Energy Institute means a system in Croatia where it is evident that through the institutes we must create a professional base, a base of experts, not political representatives who will try to modernise the market for any activity in Croatia. And it is evident that it is the institutes that have to be in the function of independent regulators in order to have as little policy impact as possible, in order to have a minor impact on the problem of the state budget in the relationship between the service manufacturer and the service user. So far, the solution in which we had the Energy Regulatory Council as a comprehensive independent Council which had the opportunity to act without the influence of the Government and the policy and on tariff systems, security of supply, quality of delivery to customers in this section are being reduced. And we're turning again towards a strong state intervention. We estimate that's not good. We estimate that it is not good when we have independent institutions, that it is not good when we have professional institutions formed in institutes because they are approximately solutions that exist in the modern world, especially in modern Europe. No, we have a problem, Goran Granic. We have a problem. It's a tragedy for Croatia. And what are we introducing? We're introducing agencies. Direct influence of the Croatian Government on regulators. What we have finally avoided in many activities when we talk about supervision of financial institutions, supervision of pension funds, means the institutes we have formed to simply remove policy, to remove the influence of the executive authorities, to share responsibility, in energy that is the problem of Croatia, and the problem of Croatia is because we do not have enough energy sources and we have natural gas in the Adriatic and we have water and water resources, we have again the influence of politics, the impact of politics. I don't think that's a good solution either. These are all reasons that the SDP Club will likely point to a negative attitude towards this package and we offer a solution and we call on the representatives of the motion that these laws are instructed in the first reading, to include the expert energy public around these solutions, to try to assess with a little more words that happened from 2000 to 2003, which are positive, negative moments both in Croatia and in Europe for which we would have to change something important. Because there is simply no need to stop reforms, to go back one step and maybe, tomorrow, under pressure from the European Commission, change these laws. Because that's when we show our independence and our weakness. And I think another reading would probably fix some of these important, important things in regulating energy activities for our new generation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28287	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the respected representative Krešimir Ćosic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28288	In his presentation, Mr Linic often mixed the terms of operators and regulators, these are important different things. However, I want to point out one thing, it is not true that the current structure of the Council of the Institute was a good solution and we are here in this House clearly pointed out that the Council for the Regulatory of Energy Activities with three employees serves as an institution for the transmission of money to the Institute, the Energy Institute of Hrvoje Pozhar, it is not a good solution and it is an unacceptable solution. This solution is far more high-quality because the agency will have the competences that it should have as a regulatory body in the energy sector with professional people and with appropriate financial revenues. Three employees cannot address quality important and responsible issues in the energy sector of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28289	Minister of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship Branko Vukelic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28290	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Here, allow me a few sentences, more arguments, given these findings made by the respected parliamentary representative Mr. Linic above all about the agency that is proposed to establish and about its independence. Therefore, it is not possible to talk at all about the Agency's dependence on the government or on politics. Otherwise, when in the European Union and discussing the independence of agencies or councils that we now have to regulate energy activities, then it is about independence from HEP and not from the Government or the Parliament. Most European countries have a council or agency appointed by the government. We went here with a proposal that the board, i.e. the administrative board of the agency appointed the Parliament of Croatia, so that we would not put this task to the Government, although we would not put that task to the Government, although I repeat, in most European countries the case. Therefore, this agency, unlike the Energy Regulatory Council of the current one, has another independent happiness that its solution is finally and cannot go to the second stage of the objection and objection to the Ministry or Government, but rather the administrative dispute is being initiated, the procedure. Therefore, the independence of this agnation is also visible, and what is significantly different between this agency and the Council, is that this agency will be far stronger, far more professional, and therefore more independent because it will not be based on 5 people but will be based on a board of directors made up of experts that you will choose here in the Croatian Parliament and from the experts of the agency's staff and unfortunately only now will we get close to these countries, Southeast Europe or I would say these neighbours are very close to that in both the energy system and many other systems far less developed than we are, and they have agencies with 20 people running these jobs. So it's a supplement and a correction to what's not right now. And one more thing I want to point out: it is not true that the debate on these laws has not been conducted in professional circles. All experts were included and members of the Energy Regulatory Council, today, and all observations, most of the observations were incorporated into these laws. Therefore, the debate was held. Unless we want to say that the opinion or position of the expert I trust is the only correct one, I don't recognize the other. However, we must also allow different views of experts, but surely this energy law package, which is a step forward and an improvement in the existing situation, legislation that touches this area, and not to say that we are dealing with one important thing that is important with these laws because you have all been witnesses and discussions are under way on the creation of a common energy market in Southeast Europe. We were all very pleased with our great achievement, and this is the link between the energy system of Southeast Europe in, with the construction and restoration of the Ernestinovo Trafo station, the need to define and regulate electricity trading within the European Union. So within that common market and the basics are therefore precisely in these laws that are before you today, and I think that is why it is important and as soon as possible to pass these laws, and I repeat the laws are very well discussed in all the professional circles that are important for this, for this sector and for this problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28291	Thank you. At 11 he's 5. It's time to apply for a ten-minute hearing. We're going to an individual debate. Honored representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28292	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary with associates, colleagues and colleagues. With these three laws, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Energy Act and then on the Energy Market and on the regulation of energy activities, surely will interest our citizens above all, and what will happen to the electricity market. So far, as it has been seen from all three laws, only 16 large companies that spent more than 40 gigawatts of hours a year and were able to choose suppliers. By passing the proposed laws, however, this limit would be reduced to 20, but we see a certain period when this would happen. Thus, on 1 July 2006, there should be an open market for consumers who spend more than 9 and a year later and for the entire enterprise. And since July 1st, only 2008 for all customers, or for the whole, for all households. But there, what is already my colleague on behalf of the SDP Club, Linic, pointed out that it is among the most important and perhaps what is the most controversial legislative changes involved in the abolition of the now separated activities of the power system management and it unites with the portable. In addition to the single transmission system operator, an operator of the distribution system is introduced, and the market operator is singled out outside the HEP organisational structure. Instead of the current Energy Regulatory Council, this is what is most controversial, the new law provides for the establishment of a Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency as an independent and non-profit institution. The agency, as we have just now had the opportunity to hear from the minister who laughs, and I also came to laugh when he explained all the independence of the members who will settle in this agency, so all the methodologies, or all the tariff systems without the amounts themselves, are brought by the regulatory authority and the height of the tariff items. prices in all tariff systems would therefore again be determined by the Government. The law introduces a provision, which is something and positive that construction, that buildings without a building permit may be connected, that they must not be connected to the energy system, so that neither to the electricity, neither to the gas or to the heat grid. However, the intention would thus result in the government trying to continue the second part of the energy reform launched by the former coalition government in 2001. However, this whole now accelerated package, which should have been considered in detail among experts and thus among the parliamentarians themselves in general, came quickly amongst all the public, and then it is as normal as it may be logical that all reforms, especially when speedy and hasty, are then forced to suffer a lot of criticism, as well as the remarks of experts who themselves point out that a broad expert debate has not been conducted. The laws under emergency procedure are in no way, and especially in this segment do not guarantee that solutions will be appropriate, that solutions will be consistent, and that is why they can achieve the opposite effect of slowing down this reform. This is exactly how it was concluded at the meeting of the Energy Council of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce. But as the government and the general government normally refer to the profession and the fact that the President has just stated to the Council for the Regulatory of Energy Activities in the public that only the Council has given its testimony to this, these legislative proposals that have been submitted to them on more than 20 pages, which has not been addressed by the Ministers. And you see it in a time of great propaganda, great achievements of government, and at the time of the government's open door. It may be that the government remained and opened a window on that occasion, so there may have been a leak where all the remarks, where all the demands were made by the citizens, were experts simply blowing them away. The president of the Council further points out that everything that has been achieved so far should not be destroyed. In any case, it should not be weakened says the position and importance of the regulatory body but should be strengthened exactly the opposite because good regulation is precisely a crucial role for new investments. The weakening of the position of regulators is obviously precisely that the agency is now simply bringing only tariff systems in order to determine the height of the tariff systems of the government. However, the government should now withdraw a little, but certainly withdraw from pricing because that is exactly what the trends in the European Union are about. They're heading towards strengthening the role of regulators. This same Council also believes that retaining all functions within a single market participant is precisely the consolidation of the monopoly, and that the purpose and purpose of further reform is precisely set out by the Government's representatives to achieve the opposite. to establish a market. The Council also believes that retaining all functions within it will cause one participant, and there is no need to dispute at all, will also cause major problems, but in negotiations with the European Union. And it should not be noted that the members of the European Union, starting in France, Great Britain to Slovenia but equally the candidate countries such as Romania and Bulgaria, have singled out a transmission system operator and a vertical company structure. Returning everything to a vertically integrated company will indeed be, according to the president of that council, a red cloth to the European Union. However, whether or not the Government has an answer to this question now is why we are now making it in an urgent and urgent manner of these laws that we will soon have to change at the beginning of the negotiations. And for the citizens, perhaps the most crucial question about all of this is whether it's actually going to be this cheap electricity. It's something that Mr. did right now and when we discuss with these laws, and they're going to do it. It's hard, it's hard because this is usually a deaf time for ordinary citizens' problems.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28293	Representative Nenad Stazic. He's gone. He's losing his word. Representative Ivana Sučec Trakoštanec.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28294	I thank Mr. President, and I will, of course, be very brief in supporting any attempt to introduce order on the energy market of energy generators, distributions and consumer supplies to those who, out of caution, are monitoring all these processes for several reasons. So the first thing that comes from a county that is rich in potential, of course, hydropotentials with natural gas and geothermal waters and where we do not know how to legally enable ownership of these potentials of course production and distribution. And where, of course, we take care of that environmental protection that's always in sync with the use of energy. So on the one hand, you have the benefit and on the other of that opportune, so to speak, the damage. And that opportunity cost which in the economy, of course, economists know what it means is something that our county accesss with special caution. That's one thing. The other thing is, I'm going to be a very open energy isn't just a heat supply or something. Energy is a national wealth, both strategic and national interest. So, the way we're dealing with the state that we're in the Union is one thing, and, of course, we can't be the exception, but I deeply hope that all those involved in this process from the government, the Ministria, the regulatory body and those involved in production, distribution, supply and transferable will take care of the protection and these national interests, therefore I will give support to these laws. but we will, of course, also as Parliament, assume, monitor and adopt tariff systems and adopt price systems. And don't mind me saying that I'm still very careful for another reason. I remember when Croatia sold share in telecommunications when I was one of the MPs who was against the Croatian state selling a majority package in telecommunications and I was right. We were then told that the state of Croatia as a state cannot own telecommunications, it needs a liberal market. It turned out the following, we sold it to Deute Telecom and the majority owner of Duutche Telecom was the German state. So it turns out that the Croatian state cannot own telecommunications but it can be a German state in Croatia. And I am deeply convinced that what will happen in this energy sector that we are talking about today. So with that faith, I'm going to encourage these laws. But with caution, I will monitor their application. And let me, as a consumer, that's the end I want to say here, be allowed to say that I want to introduce order. But that we may sometimes go too far with these wishes, because I have found in the cassle of Croatian HEP's flyers distribution where, of course, wanting to discover those consumers who do not pay contributions that are not in the system of recorded consumers, that some way invites people to denunciation, instead of revealing to their channels experts from their services that are competent to do so where energy is unauthorized. It even offers rewards to those who denunciate their neighbors friends or I don't know who but, if such a case exists. Well, I'm not sure that's the best way. So, I want to introduce order but in a way that's appropriate than a denunciation prize. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28295	Thank you. Honorable representative Vlado Yekovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28296	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Secretary. So here are the three energy laws that form in some way the regulatory energy activity process that started in 2001, and after certain delays to these proposals, this process continues. Of course, there have been some additions over the past few years, so I would also, in some ways, remove or express a different view compared to those who suggest that final laws be postponed rather than other readings. It is absolutely certain that it will be complemented in the next period and will therefore be brought into line with European legislation through these supplements. But also with what daily practice in Croatia will require legislators. These legislative proposals therefore prescribe certain guidelines and other laws that will be introduced, related to energy activity, and so much is needed as quickly and as quickly as possible to pass these laws. Today, in the debate between individual clubs and individual debates, the most spears were somehow broken over the jurisdiction of the Croatian Labour Agency, and the analysis gave its introduction positive or negative. So let's let the time go, but I think that if the Croatian Parliament appoints these people or those members, it can always change them. It also affects its competence through its solutions. A structural energy price is also introduced to ensure that all consumers know what enters that price. In particular, natural persons and small businesses as energy users are protected and it is prescribed that all users have the right to choose to buy electricity. These legislative proposals form a new calculation of the transmission of electricity to abroad. And assumptions are being made for the adoption of sublegal acts which should result in greater liberalisation of the energy market. The fact is and this is what should be particularly apostrophyd in some way, that these legal proposals also begin to eliminate the HEP monopoly and continue the HEP restructuring process and, of course, it should be very careful in these processes. It has not been mentioned so far, I also think that it should be pointed out that these legal acts also create assumptions for improving the use of renewable energy sources in Croatia, which have not been used nearly enough so far, through different benefits and privileged conditions and we believe that this is what we are creating this nuclearus incentivising better use of renewable sources. I therefore support the adoption of these laws, aware that this matter will continue to be complemented by legal solutions, harmonize with European legislation, but also with the needs of life as time and the situation will be imposed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28297	Thank you. Replica, representative Krešimir Ćosic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28298	Well, here's a short replica. Mr Jelkovac argued that the better the solution, the Energy Regulatory Council or agencies, should be given time. I'd like to comment briefly. This is not an approach managed by the government, and so, this methodology, that time is an arbitration of what is a better solution, is simply not acceptable. The government has sought a better solution, the government has found a better solution and the government has proposed a better solution with this law, and I hope that we will soon adopt this better and better solution for a simple reason. The Board of Regulators had two and a half employees. With two-and-a-half employees, they couldn't do such complex and responsible jobs in this country. The agency will be structured in such a way that it can represent all interests in the energy sector which is extremely complex and heterogeneous. So I want to point out one more time. The solution that has been delivered to us, tested and verified in professional circles is better and better quality. The government recognized him, the government proposed him, I believe this House will recognize him and support him. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28299	Replication response. Mr. Representative Vladimir Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28300	I fully agree with what Mr. Cosic said was certainly a better solution to this proposed by the government. I may not have been clear enough in my discussion, but I wanted to point out then that time would also show how this solution is better.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28301	Dear Representative Milan Meden.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28302	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and fellow MPs. As the Republic of Croatia is a signator of the European Energy Charter with the aim of liberalising energy sectors and accessing competition systems to existing transmission and transport systems today, we are discussing legislation on the electricity market as well as regulation of energy activities. In addition to Croatia being a signator of the European Charter, we must ask ourselves fundamental questions as to what kind of energy system Croatia is today in relation to the European environment, which are our objectives, whether we have a clear strategy, whether we have resources that can implement it, above all I mean human potential, how this regulation will apply to the price of the user. Today HEP is a monopoly in Croatia, but we are witnessing that there are no excessive negative reactions from the market at the price. I believe that this is not the reason for the price and quality of the delivery of the service, i.e. energy. The reason is that the user in the monopoly has no choice, so politicisation and media pressures would be in vain. Of course, the simplest thing is not to change regulation, but ultimately for the economy and users is the worst solution. What exactly is our current situation? The reform of the energy sector and, in particular, the reform of the electricity sector represents an extremely complex task, which is very likely the most complex task facing the energy sector in Croatia throughout its history. It is necessary to introduce entirely new relations, define new entities and establish a completely new legal and other regulation in this sector. That this task is not even a little simple, shows examples of problems faced by countries that have a rich tradition of market development and market relations and built institutions of the social and economic system. The Croatian energy sector has just over a year of experience in introducing market relations on the energy sector. There is a need to build institutional relations between entities in the energy sector, which is a particularly delicate task for each country, given the existing universal solutions and with regard to the models in which each country adapts to tradition, heritage and organisation. It should be borne in mind that the energy sector is just a necessary assumption for a smooth development of the economy and society as a whole and that as such is not the purpose of itself. The Energy Regulatory Act aims to open the market, introduce competition, give continuous conditions to all suppliers, and establish regulation that allows for monitoring of the objectives set. It is certainly the most difficult task to protect customers and energy operators, and this goal is achieved only with the assumption of a successful competition, therefore competition. This means that the way to entrepreneurship in the field of energy is not easy. He's ruthless, but he's inevitable. Today in Croatia, the role of regulators is formally performed only by the Board of Regulators, and today we heard, and I didn't even know that it has 3, 5 or 2 and a half employees, as we heard in the debate, and professional affairs and most of these acts are carried out by the Energy Institute "Hrvoje Pozhar". This morning, on the Committee on European Integration, a representative of the legislators of this law called the Institute a non-profit organisation whose employees co-operate closely with the Council. This definition of non-profitism may be a key problem, because certainly one quality regulation cannot be run by volunteers, and the Institute is funded by various projects financed by the government. So the definition of non-profit by the term "proposer" would actually be state, and when we talk about the budget deficit, that's when it's measured in billions of dollars or euros. On the other hand, today MP Slavko Linic spoke about the independence of this Institute, where it is certainly difficult to speak politically about independence, because it is known that he is headed by the former Deputy Prime Minister. The Council, by definition, does not manage the Institute, raises the question of the independence of such a body, as well as the speed of processes that should introduce competence on the electricity market. The Council's reports often mention and call for the provisions of Directive 2003/54/EC, which was discussed by MP Cosic in the context of independence and transparency of the work of energy operators. However, it must be pointed out that the functional and legal independence of energy entities under the same Directive is not linked to ownership, i.e. does not necessarily assume the transfer of ownership to a specific entity. Thus, the independence of the energy system is also highly questionable in this way. Furthermore, I would like to say, regarding the organisation of the work of the Council, therefore the existing Energy Regulatory Council, has so far carried out a number of activities of considerable importance and scope, but it is necessary to consider the necessary personnel teaming and organisation and restructuring of this Council. In particular, it should be borne in mind that the current organisation, the organisational implementation of Council expert support, is unfavourable in terms of the European Commission. In order to bring this regulatory regulation of energy activities in line with European Union directives, this law establishes the Agency for the Regulatory of Energy Activities as a public and independent institution, which has an administrative council headed by the Director. The Agency's core tasks will be to monitor the overall energy system, issue energy performance permits, approve plans for development and construction of the network, control of tariff systems and all other energy entities. When we are actually discussing it this way, it seems that the process of setting up and acting of the Agency is simple and that actually the Agency can start soon or immediately after the New Year. If that were not the case, we also witnessed the Law on Telecommunications of July last year which clearly defined the organisation of the Agency in the next six months. We were all witnesses in the Croatian Parliament when, because of the different views of intricacies or perhaps misunderstandings, we had to postpone the deadline for the establishment of the Governing Council of the Agency, and this current Telecommunications Council was appointed just over a month ago with heated debates in this House. At that time, some of our colleagues had a strong debate on the expertise of the members of the Agency's Council, on their bias, on the influence and lobbying of... operators, and particularly on sharp steps related to the international tender of the third GSM operator, and they called it the reasons of a billion kuna. These representatives may have forgotten to say that the future operator will have to invest a billion kunas in order to perhaps expect a billion kuna profit in 2014. Whether we are expected to have this kind of activity and exhaustive debate with the Governing Council of the Energy Agency, we leave it to time, but for a short time I would like to say and give full support to harmonising with the European Union and regulation, and I personally hold that we are in the field of energy activities in favour. Why? Because HEP is actually the only monopolies right now. Making quality legislation can ensure that competition is entered without great stress in favour of the economy and small consumers. The Regulatory Agency is waiting for a responsible job, but also matches with adverse influences perhaps from state structures, existing monopolies and future potential competitors. Unbiased conditions for the inclusion and participation in the electricity market will be met by harmonised and functional laws, not by transfer of ownership and liability from this or that legal entity, and by experience of the functioning of the electricity system of European countries, as well as on other continents, suggest that security is also for long-term reliability... the consumer is the most well-thinked legal arrangement of the sector, not the positioning of ownership. [[You don't understand.]] The question arises whether the best market organisation guarantees the lowest price. This is primarily what our users are interested in and whether it provides the most reliable option. Not at all. The market is best organised today, I think, in Great Britain, Finland, Spain, we heard maybe in Ireland that is 100% open, but some of the other countries where openness is also 100% related to prices and openness do not confirm. On the other hand, in many countries that have regulated the market and completely opened it after the initial price decline, there is again a trend in price growth, especially for household consumers. So the price is not the lowest in all countries with complete openness. Today we also discussed the privatisation of HEP as the only monopolies. There is a law on the privatisation of HEP that stimulates the participation of workers owned by HEP, but I believe that it is not yet known in detail in which way. Let's be honest, I believe that today we don't know what the real value of HEP is, but I am sure that possible co-ownership and management of HEP by workers would actually be well received in public, and according to European experiences, the government would not be able to slow down such an initiative. And in the end, I conclude that it would be important not only for energy subjects... to have their own interests, but first and foremost in the field of electricity states to recognise long-term and national strategic interests and exploit their strategic position. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28303	Thank you. Honourable representative Zvonimir Puljic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28304	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, Mr. Minister. We have three energy laws before us, the Energy Act, that is, its amendments and additions to the Electricity Market Act and the Energy Regulatory Act. With this legislative package, Croatia is preparing a basis for a follow-up, i.e. a second step in energy reform aimed at liberalising energy markets and enabling third parties to access transmission and transport systems. The first step was taken on 19 July 2001 when the Parliament adopted the Energy Act as a roof law in the energy field and four other laws in this area. Today, however, almost five years after the adoption of these laws, it is evident that the current Energy Act is not complete, it does not cover all the problems especially of those processes and activities that have strengthened not only in Europe but also in us. Such as rationalising consumption and energy efficiency development of cogeneration, i.e. Concomitant production of electricity and heat, i.e. at least two media in the single process, the development of renewable energy sources of bio-mass and bio-fuels, energy protection issues and environmental protection with this activity. These terms are neither present in the applicable law or under-quality, so the existing legal framework has become too narrow to develop energy activities and organise energy markets, or liberalising it. In addition, coordination with a number of European Union documents adopted after 2001 should be carried out. Directive 2003/44/EC foresees a unique transmission system operator transmission system operator, tasked with transferring and managing the power system while our current Energy Act treats and activities as separate. Such a solution, ultimately, would lead to a threat to the security of the power system's drive and, therefore, this law changes the next logic of the technological unity of the existing system and introduces a single transmission system operator in Croatia. Furthermore, technical conditions have recently been created for the expansion of electricity trade in the region, which has been made public with the European Union's top representatives in the Ernestinov Trafo station, so the haste to adopt the amendment of the Energy Act is necessary in order not to halt the process of signing international contracts to prevent us from joining European associations and agreements, as well as to prevent access to funds. The electricity market law, Article 31, lays down deadlines in which customers are gradually given the free choice of electricity suppliers, which provides for this right to be extended to all customers by 1 July 2008 so that the process of opening the whole market will be completed. Of course, he was treated, but in the first stage, the normative privileged buyer from 40 gigawatt hours to 20 gigawatt hours is downgraded to customers with consumption of more than 9 gigawatt hours and on 1 July 2007 for buyers of category entrepreneurs. The energy regulation law of Articles 6 and 7 defines the establishment of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency HERA as an independent non-profit organisation to regulate participants and relations in the entire energy market of Croatia. This is certainly a better solution than this current ineffective regulatory council that does not have its own logistics and has not been able to fulfil the expected tasks. And without further ado, I suggest that we adopt these three energy laws by emergency procedure, as suggested, in order to initiate this process which was actually lagging behind after 2001 and did not meet expectations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28305	Thank you. Final review, Minister Branko Vukelic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28306	Thank you, Mr. President, Your Honor, and Mr. Parliamentarians. Allow me a few sentences after these discussions regarding these three very important energy laws, i.e. amendments to the Energy Act and two of these new laws. First of all, I want to make it clear that it is necessary to pass these laws for several reasons. I'll just say the most important. First, since the adoption of the Law from 2001 to today, the circumstance has been that we have new European Union directives, and these laws, therefore, are laws that need to be brought into line with the legislation of the European Union. And secondly, this year since 2001, which has shown that the existing legislation is not good, that it needs to be changed because of the existing process, I would say, and the liberalisation of the energy market, as well as the restructuring of energy entities in Croatia, has been halted. So it was necessary to pass these laws. And I also want to make it clear that these laws have been made with consultation and agreement with the Commission of the European Union. So, with the European Union. These laws will not experience any red cloth in Europe. So, they were made in agreement with these legal decisions, the Commission of the European Union has been informed, so we have agreement on such a model or these changes or such legal solutions. And just as it is important to say, here someone mentioned, examples of France and even if it is possible, in the examples of the European Union countries, that the transmission operator in the system, therefore, HEP or in the system, therefore, the Vetirl Holding Organisation, is possible and the consultant was, for example, one of the consultants from France because France has this model. So we need to be clear about what we're talking about, facts that are unquestionable. So, these models exist in Europe, they can get the European Commission's green light and are acceptable to us clearly that in the subsequent adoption of sublegal acts and in the implementation of these laws we achieve what needs to be achieved and the independence of individual entities to each other. And what I also want to say again clearly, the Agency, is not at all questionable whether the Agency or the Council for... energy activities. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] There's no country in Europe that doesn't have an agency. The agency model has been accepted everywhere and that is the practice of all European Union countries. The Agency, therefore, is a more quality solution to the regulators of the agencies is more independent, we are changing important things compared to the current status of the Council for... energy activities. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, we are increasing this independence and I think it is this very solution that will get the green light, and I would say, I would edit our legislation when it comes to the energy sector in line with the European Union, but also that these legal solutions will be a quality basis for, with clear, sublegal acts for further, and further restructuring of energy entities in the Republic of Croatia for the abolition of the HEP monopoly and for, clearly, the liberalisation of the energy market in Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28307	Thank you. I am concluding the debate on the final proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Energy Act, on the electricity market and on the Energy Regulatory Act. Second. Final draft law on the electricity market, emergency procedure, first and second reading of P.Z.E. No. 200. The debate on the text of the law is over, the government submitted 27 amendments after the deadline. We have already voted to vote and discuss the amendments that the government has submitted after the deadline. And now we're going in a row. Minister Vukelic, come in. Amendment 1.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28309	Thank you, Mr. President, so. Amendment 1 nomotechnically edits the expression.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28310	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on Amendment 1. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Restraint? I find Amendment 1 accepted by 78 votes in favour, and six abstentions. Amendment 2.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28311	Also nomotechnically edits the expression.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28312	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on Amendment 2. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Restraint? I find Amendment 2 accepted by 78 votes and six abstentions. Amendment 3.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28313	Also nomotechnically edits the expression.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28314	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on Amendment 3. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Restraint? I find Amendment 3 passed with 78 votes for and six abstentions. Amendment 4.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28315	Nomotechnically edits Article 9.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28316	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. Who's in favour of Amendment 4. Thank you. Against? Abstained. I find Amendment 4 accepted 78 votes for six abstentions. Amendment 5.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28317	Article 10 of the Law shall be amended normally.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28318	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. Who's in favor of Amendment 5 against? Restraint? And Amendment 5 adopted by 78 in six abstentions. Amendment 6.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28319	The article is also nomotechnically edited.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28320	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on Amendment 6. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? And Amendment 6 passed with 78 votes in six abstentions. Amendment 7.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28321	Nomotechnically edits the expression in Article 14.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28322	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing up. I am voting on Amendment 7. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Restraint? And Amendment 7 adopted by 78 in six abstentions. Amendment 8.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28323	Nomotechnically edits Article 15.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28324	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing up. Who's for Amendment 8? Thank you. Against? Restraint? And Amendment 8 adopted by 78 in six abstentions. Amendment 9.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28325	Nomotechnically edits Article 16 of the Law.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28326	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on Amendment 9. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Restraint? 78 for and 6 abstentions for Amendment 9. Amendment 10.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28327	Nomotechnically edits Article 17.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28328	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing up. Who's for Amendment 10? Thank you. Against? Restraint? 78 for and 6 abstentions for Amendment 10. Amendment 11.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28329	Nomotechnically, Article 18 is amended as follows:
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28330	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing up. Who's for Amendment 11? Thank you. Against? Restraint? And amendment 1178 for and 6 abstentions. Amendment 12.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28331	Nomotechnically edits the expression in Article 19.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28332	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. Who's for Amendment 12? Thank you. Against? Restraint? I find that the amendment was adopted with 78 for and 6 abstentions. Amendment 13.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28333	Nomotechnically edits Article 20.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28334	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. Who's for Amendment 13? Thank you. Against? Restraint? 78 for six abstentions. Amendment 14.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28335	Nomotechnically edits Article 22.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28336	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. Who's in favor of Amendment 14? Thank you. Against? Restraint? 78 for six abstentions. Amendment 15.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28337	Nomotechnically edits the 27th article.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28338	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. Who's for Amendment 15? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? 78 for six abstentions. Amendment 16.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28339	Nomotechnically edits the 28th article.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28340	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing up. Who's in favor of Amendment 16? Thank you. Against? Restraint? 78 for six abstentions. Amendment 17.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28341	Nomotechnically, Article 30 is amended as follows:
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28342	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. Who's for Amendment 17? ... Oh, if I hadn't seen it. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Yes, go ahead. Honorary representative Pero Kovačević.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28343	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. I'm interested in how much did this Law read in the government when the government determined the proposal for a final law? Because this stampede that we perform in the Croatian Parliament, related to the harmonisation of especially the law with the label P.Z.E. which the Ministry of European Integration gives evidence that we have bad translators, and that no one is legally following it anymore. Bad translators, because this is all the result of a bad translation. And then I'm interested in how much this bill of law has read in the government and how the services of the Vlade are doing, because if we move on, it's gonna get worse and worse. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28344	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on Amendment 17. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Restraint? 78 for seven abstentions. Amendment 18.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28345	This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28346	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. Who's in favor of Amendment 18? Thank you. Against? Restraint? I find that the amendment has been accepted by 78 for 7 abstentions. Amendment 19.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28347	Article 33 is amended as follows:
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28348	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on Amendment 19. Who's in? Thank you. Proit? Restraint? 78 for seven abstentions. Amendment 20.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28349	Nomotechnically edits the 34th article.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28350	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. Who's in favor of Amendment 20? Thank you. Against? Restraint? 78 for seven abstentions. Amendment 21.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28351	Nomotechnically edits the 36th article.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28352	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. Who's up for the amendment? Thank you? Against? Restraint? I find that the amendment has been accepted by 78 for 7 abstentions. Amendment 22.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28353	Nomotechnically edits the 37th article.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28354	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. Who's for Amendment 22? Thank you. Against? Restraint? This amendment has been accepted. 78 for 7 abstentions. 23.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28355	Nomotechnically edits the 38th article.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28356	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. Against? Restraint? 78 for seven abstentions. Amendment 24.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28357	Nomotechnically edits the 39th article.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28358	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. Against? Restraint? 78 votes in seven abstentions. Amendment 25.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28359	Nomotechnically edits the 40th article.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28360	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. Am I voting Amendment 25? Who's in? Thank you. Against? Restraint? I'm finding that the 25th was adopted with 78 for and 7 abstentions. 26.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28361	Nomotechnically edits the 42nd article.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28362	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. Who's in favor of Amendment 26. Against? Restraint? 78 for seven abstentions. And the 27th Amendment. I'm opening a debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28363	So, nomotechnically edits...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28364	Yeah, yeah.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28365	...the whole law.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28366	Nomotechnically. I'm voting on that amendment. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Restraint? I find this 27th amendment with 78 votes in favour, with seven abstentions. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I've never felt more foolish. Like a parrot. That I have to pronounce that constant formula at the nomtech. That can't happen anymore, Mr. Minister. This must no longer happen under any circumstances. I am voting on the final proposal of the Electricity Market Act. [[Applause.]] Please engage. Please vote. Please vote. May I have your attention, gentlemen and Madam Representatives, please vote. Some didn't vote. I.D.'d first. ... Nothing pucks, pecks when it's... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] It's a pike, isn't it? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] The result? I find that, unanimously with 80 votes for the adopted Electricity Market Act, it is in the text as proposed by the Proposer, together with the amendments adopted. Please, Luka Baby, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28367	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, a week ago, last Friday, I asked you a question on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club on the basis of article 32. Let me repeat that the indent is: "The President of the Parliament worries, cares about the protection of rights and the fulfilment of the duties of MPs." You seem to be successfully caring for the protection of rights, but you did not respond even though you announced what you would do about fulfilling the duties of MPs. Namely, Article 14. The Rules of Procedure say the MP has the rights and responsibilities to take part in and discuss and vote in the meetings of the Parliament. Here today we see again that there is no SDP representative, there is not one representative of libre, IDS, there is not one representative of LS...... There are no members of the HSS, there are three MPs, the HNS's club, the PGS's, but as you can see they haven't been identified here, so they can be considered not here. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] If this work continues, I ask you again, Mr President, as I did a week ago, to take appropriate measures for which you have powers under the Rules of Procedure and to take all necessary measures to ensure that you are concerned and that you fulfil the duties of MPs. This is more, I think it's unacceptable from the beginning, but it doesn't last today, it doesn't last a week, it takes a long time, because one Friday when we voted in the Croatian Parliament, only Mrs. Alenka Kosisa Chichin-Shain of these parties was present here in this assembly, and the other ones I counted were not. I think it's already turning into something that's unacceptable. I ask you for the most energetic measures, those measures you are authorized by the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28368	Mr. Vice President and ladies and gentlemen. Representatives at the Croatian Parliament have not called off. They are elected in the elections and the law lays down the reasons when their term of office can end before the ordinary term of office expires. I cannot and do not have any authority or opportunity to, to initiate some procedure for MPs who do not fulfil their duties, and I repeat, all MPs and MPs took an oath to uphold the Constitution and the law when they enter into office. And the law says, translated into the Rules of Procedure and the Constitution, translated into business provisions, legal and constitutional provisions that they are advocates to have rights but also to have duties. One of those duties is the vote. The Croatian public will follow us, the entire Croatian Parliament, each MP and MP, as they fulfil their constitutional and legal obligations and obligations and as they refer to the solemn oath. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we now have three laws on the agenda. - Final bill amending and supplementing the energy law, emergency procedure, first second reading of P.Z.E. No. 202; - Final draft law on the electricity market, emergency procedure, first and second reading of P.Z.E. No. 200; - Final bill on regulation of energy activities, emergency procedure, first and second reading of P.Z.E. No. 203; Given the matter, I propose, and this is also a proposal from some club representatives to conduct a united debate on these three draft laws. With club representatives having an extra five minutes in the debate. Does the Parliament agree with that? Yeah. Thank you very much. I ask Minister Branko Vukelic of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship to further explain these three draft laws.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28370	Thank you, Mr. President of the Parliament. Dear ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. Here are three laws, energy laws that are very important and above all, which are changes to the energy law and new laws on electricity triangulation and the law on regulation of energy activities. Refort energy sector in the Republic of Croatia began in July 2001 when the Croatian Parliament adopted the concept of reform adopted a package of energy laws. This enables, among other things, the creation of an institutional energy sector framework with particular emphasis on energy market liberalisation. The five Directives of the European Union that came into force after 2001 are newly regulating issues in the energy sector. The additional reason for amending these laws is also the difficulties in implementing the energy sector reform under existing laws. It is necessary to redesign an existing system and market operator by setting up a transmission system operator to perform integrated power system management and power transmission functions. It is necessary to separate the market operator from HEP. Such a solution brings unique responsibility for the security of the electricity system and is in line with solutions in most European countries. Further opening of the market requires a more operational energy regulator. So short a few sentences about each of these laws. Amendments to the Energy Act. The energy law is a roof law for all laws in the energy sector and provides a comprehensive legal framework for the sector. This law sets out, first and foremost, the structure of regulated and free energy prices. Methodology for the determination of tariff items with a height of headings. And jurisdiction over its adoption which is reasonably assigned to the Government, the Ministry of Regulatory and Energy Entities to which a particular tariff system is concerned. The law also accurately formulate general conditions for energy supply and consumer protection measures. To speed up solving the problem of illegal construction, these amendments to the law prohibit the collection of buildings with a construction permit on energy networks. The electricity market law lays down regulated and marketable electricity activities. How to obtain the status of a privileged producer, and the right to encourage. As well as the procedures for granting approval for the construction of new power plants, and the publication and execution of a public tender if access is to be opened for that construction. The law lays down the responsibilities and responsibilities of transmission operator and distribution system operator. AND their independence in a vertically integrated company. The independence of electricity loads from electricity transmission and distribution activities and the obligation of all suppliers to assume electricity from renewable energy sources and generation as well as the obligation of public information providers is regulated. Special emphasis is on the protection of customers from the category of households and small customers. Additional roles of market operators in the performance of operations, e.g. the calculation of balancing energy, and the collection and distribution of funds for the promotion of renewable energy sources and cogeneration have been established. The annual spending limit has been reduced to obtaining preferential customer status, from 40 to 20 gigawatt hours, and dynamics have been established until the market is finally opened. The public service obligation of supply and the rights and obligations of privileged and tariff buyers has been established in a transparent manner. The transitional and final provisions of the law lay down the obligations of HEP for the provision of public services and for the establishment of a new structure, in particular the separation of supply and distribution. Issuing of market operators from HEP and public service obligations of customers who are left without suppliers or who do not wish to use the status of a privileged buyer. In order to establish and implement the regulation of energy activities, the system of regulated action of energy subjects, and the establishment and arrangement of the energy market by the new energy regulation law, it is proposed to establish an independent, independent, non-profit, public institutions called the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency. The founder of the agency is proposed that the Republic of Croatia, the agency for its work, corresponds to the Croatian Assembly, this law regulates the internal structure of the agency, accurately determines and determines its business and activities as an activity of special state interest. For example, these are the tasks of disposing of permits to carry out energy activities. By providing methodologies and supervision of the application of tariff systems. Control of the work of energy subjects. All of the so far, this is important to say, the acts of the Council for the Regulatory of Energy Activities and all the solutions of that Council and the permits are valid for the time of the one issued, so it simply ensures the continuity of the current council and the new agency. The reasons why this law is important and important to adopt already and this year are not only a alignment with the European Union directives but also our international obligations and the need to be members of European associations so that we can use the funds, that we are moving towards the liberalisation of the energy sector as quickly as possible. To regulate the position of renewable energy sources and cogenerations that have not been legally regulated so far. In view of the need to establish a level of operationality in the work of regulators and normal compliance with the way energy law, electricity market law and energy regulation law. Therefore, I ask you to adopt these amendments to the law on energy and new laws on the electricity market and the law on energy regulation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28371	Thank you, Minister. Do the committee's reporters want to see it? The European Integration Committee. President Neven Mimica, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28372	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary, dear colleagues and fellow MPs. The Committee on European Integration has today been united to discuss these three proposals. Let's call them the energy package. And as an interested working body, the Committee unanimously means all 7 members present and members of the Committee, has confirmed that these laws are sufficiently consistent at this time with the legal gain of the European Union. And that full harmonisation is coming after the adoption of sublegal acts in time to Croatia's accession to the European Union. In addition to this confirmation of European coherence, the debate expressed its opinion that, because of the importance of this matter for the overall functioning of the energy system, and because of the fact that there is no time-limit for harmonisation that would require an emergency procedure, it is better to go with these laws without an emergency procedure, i.e. that these laws should be discussed in a regular procedure. However, I say, as far as European harmonisation is concerned, the Committee has confirmed a sufficient level of coherence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28373	Thank you very much. Chairman of the Committee on Economics, Honorable Representative Drago Pukleš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28374	Your Honor, Mr. President, the Honorable Minister, the Honorable Representatives. The Committee on the Economy, Development and Reconstruction of the Croatian Parliament at the 21st session held on 29 November 2004 discussed the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on energy with the Final Proposal of the Law, the proposal for a regulation of energy activities with the Final Proposal for a Law and the Proposal for a Law on the Market of Electricity with the Final Proposal for Law, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia by the Act of 18 November 2004, with a proposal to comply with Article 159. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament of Laws shall be adopted by an urgent procedure. The Committee shall be within the meaning of Article 67. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament discussed the above-mentioned Bills as a parent working body. On a proposal from the Committee president, the Committee discussed the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Energy Act with the Final Proposal for Law, the emergency procedure, the 1st and 2nd reading, the proposal for a law on the electricity market with the final draft law, the emergency procedure, the 1st and 2nd reading and the proposal for a law on energy regulation with the final draft law, the emergency procedure 1st and 2nd reading. In his opening statement, the applicant's representative pointed out that the regulatory energy activity process started in 2001 and that, after a short delay in these legislative proposals, the process continued. When drawing up these legislative proposals, binding guidelines of the European Union have been taken into account, in particular those 5 relating to these legislative proposals. The applicant specifically pointed out that according to the European Union directives, the energy system should be guided in a way that enables basic decisions to be made in one place. These legislative proposals prescribe guidelines for other laws to be passed and are related to energy activity. A request for a structured energy price has also been introduced, so that all consumers know what enters that price. Particularly protected are natural persons and small businesses, as energy users. It is prescribed that all users have the right to choose to buy electricity. The proposing representative also stressed the jurisdiction of the Croatian regulatory agency whose decisions are final, which means that only judicial protection can be sought against them. These legislative proposals have established a new way of calculating the transmission of electricity abroad. The adoption of these laws is a presumption of the adoption of sublegal acts in the field of energy which should result in greater liberalisation of the energy market. In the opening of the debate, the Committee President met the members of the Committee with the material of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce whose representative pointed out that HEP supports the adoption of the proposed laws, while INA and JANAF have objections which are united in that material. The basic observation by INA and JANAF is that, in view of the importance of the matter regulated by these legislative proposals, they should go into the regular procedure of adoption without the application of an emergency procedure. The representative of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce has proposed that the fundamental law relating to the harmonisation of Croatian legislation with the legislation of the European Union should also be discussed in regular procedure. The president of the trade union in Croatia's electricity industry stressed that these legal proposals begin the abolition of the HEP monopoly and continue the process of restructuring of HEP. Following the discussion, the Committee unanimously reached the next conclusion. It is supported by the adoption of the Law amending and supplementing the Energy Act, the adoption of the Energy Regulation Act and the adoption of the Electricity Market Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28375	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'm opening a club debate. Croatian Democratic Community Representatives' Club, respected representative Kresimir Cosic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28376	Your Honor, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary, ladies and gentlemen. The 2001 Energy Act, as known, is a roof law for all other laws in the field of energy. It was prepared nearly 5 years ago, and it is understandable today that it is not in line with the new European Union directives adopted in 2003 and there are legitimate reasons for updating it. Because of this, it is not enough framework for all other laws in the energy sector and the efforts of the Government of Croatia to modernise and update it have been fully justified and therefore here today we are discussing this package of laws. I'll just point out some shortcomings in this law. The current Energy Act provides that energy activities are separate from the transmission of electricity and the management of the electricity system. That's not good for many reasons. Not only because of the fact that this does not correspond to European knowledge today, but simply the necessary level of synergy and uniform management of the electricity system management system and the transmission system enables far greater efficiency of the system as a whole. Furthermore, Directive 203 54 EC does not know a separate system operator from an energy transmission operator, but only a single transmission system operator, tsl TSO transmission system operator to be responsible for the following tasks: ensuring the long-term capacity of the demand system, contributing to security of supply, managing energy flows in the network, informing the operator of adjacent networks, non-discrimination of network users, informing network users etc. In addition, there are additional reasons why it was necessary to update the existing energy law. A very significant problem of rationalising energy consumption, i.e. The increase in energy efficiency is not sufficiently defined and regulated by the current Energy Act and no compliance with the European Union directives has been achieved. The relevant law further does not adequately and sufficiently clearly describe the tariff systems and the procedures for their adoption for certain energy activities. Furthermore, the applicable gas economy law does not cover the energy activity of natural gas supply. In addition, natural gas supply and natural gas distribution activities as public services do not have a regulated price tariff methodology. Furthermore, as regards oil and petroleum products, the applicable law does not include the energy activities of biofuel production, oil pipeline transport, oil and oil transport, and oil derivatives and biofuels by road vehicles. This is due to the fact that the energy operators present cannot obtain authorisations to carry out the activities for which they are otherwise qualified. Furthermore, the adoption of this law and all the laws that we are discussing today, which are related to this law, will result in the opening of the energy market according to the European Union directives and will contribute to the rapid liberalisation of the energy sector and the rationalisation of energy entities in the Republic of Croatia. I will stress only some important elements relating to harmonisation with European Union directives and documents, the adoption of common rules on the electricity market, the adoption of common rules on the internal market for natural gas, the adoption and promotion of the use of electricity from renewable energy sources, the promotion of cogeneration based on the use of useful heat and the promotion of the use of biofuels and other renewable fuels in transport. So from all that's been said, it's quite clear that for the past five years they've made important changes in the existing Energy Act. So the main objective of this bill is to better identify and regulate all energy activities in the Republic of Croatia, ensure a unique view of all energy activities, a single management and management system with all the important parts of this complex energy system in the Republic of Croatia. Establish a more comprehensive legal framework for other energy sector laws in order to make production, transfer, distribution and supply of energy to all customers in the Republic of Croatia more reliable and efficient. In addition, all documents place particular emphasis on environmental protection measures, renewable energy, cogeneration and energy efficiency. Now allow me a few words about the proposal for a law on energy regulation. Recently in this House, we discussed the Council's annual report on energy regulation. We took note of it, with certain observations which were primarily related to the fact that the Energy Regulatory Council has, in accordance with the existing law, significant means to charge for the provision and authorisation of activities in the energy sector. However, this Energy Regulatory Council had only three employees with such significant revenues and I personally suggested that we be provided with a report on the financial operations of the Energy Regulatory Council, but here we are today discussing a proposal for a law on the regulation of energy activities which, in some ways, dodging or abolishing the Energy Regulatory Council, which really makes sense and justification, I would like to say a few words. The Republic of Croatia is a signator of the European Energy Charter, which has been established to accelerate the liberalisation of the energy sector and allow third parties to access existing transmission and transport systems of energy in the Republic of Croatia. The aim of opening the market is to give all energy suppliers an equal opportunity to supply customers with objectively visible and impartial conditions, and the establishment of regulation should allow for control of the achievement of the objectives set. The proposed law, as I said about regulation of energy activities, establishes and this is highlighted in the opening section, the Agency for the Regulatory of Energy Activities as a public and independent institution that is structured as follows. She has her own board of directors, she needs to have her own board president, she has an agency, i.e. staff of the Agency and she should have a director as an appropriate professional. The Administrative Board of the Energy Regulatory Agency shall be appointed by the Croatian Parliament. I hope that we will have this very soon in the Croatian Parliament in the procedure, and the director is elected by the administrative council as an expert in the public competition. The Statute of the Agency shall be adopted by the Administrative Board of the Agency, with the prior consent of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The activities of the Agency shall be of particular interest to the Republic of Croatia and shall be carried out by the Agency on the basis of public authority. That's quite understandable from everything that's been said so far. Any acts for which the adoption is solely competent, shall be adopted by the Administrative Board of the Agency on a proposal from the Director of the Agency. The President of the Governing Council shall manage the work of the Agency, represent and represent the Agency, and shall organise expert work to prepare all proposals to the Governing Council. The annual report on the overall situation in the energy sector, as well as the financial report, on the implementation of the financial plan, shall be submitted by the Agency to the Croatian Parliament and the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I stress and repeat the existing structure of the Energy Regulatory Council, according to which it consists of only five members standing here, I said three, disabling its independent and active performance in the field of energy regulation and we really had an important institution that was actually fictitious, but as the virtual institution says today, because such important responsibilities, the responsibilities of the activities of the institution with only a few employees could not be carried out. How did she do those jobs? They were carried out in the following way, that most of them, or almost all of the professional tasks for the purposes of the Council, were carried out by the Energy Institute "Croatian Fire" as an institution over which the Council had no control. In such circumstances, the Council does not have the necessary conditions or has not had the necessary conditions to exercise its functions independently of the regulatory body in the field of energy regulation and this has led to difficulties in carrying out energy activities and the establishment of energy markets with the potential for long-term serious consequences, so such a Council work organisation had to be abolished and this is what we are likely to vote on Friday and adopt. It should, in particular, be pointed out once again that the Agency for the Regulatory of Energy Activities in the scope of its affairs, by jurisdiction, is stronger than many ministries in the Republic of Croatia. I usually make fun of myself, it's practically one strong ministry, the Ministry of Energy, but for reasons of simpler management at the government level, that institution has a title as agreed and adopted, i.e. The Agency for the Regulatory of Energy Activities. Justifying such an important institution with this law is only the first step. Functioning, especially the quality functioning of this Agency is a job that will take a long time, and the first step is extremely important, i.e. the installation of quality people in view of the complexity of the tasks for which the Agency will be competent, especially the leaders. A good law doesn't have to be good in implementation. Without quality good people capable of coping with all these challenges, the Agency will not be able to meet the challenges and I hope that this issue, which is just as important as the law itself, will pay special attention. Furthermore, a few words on the proposal for a law on the electricity market. As is known, by implementing the provisions of the Electricity Market Act, and by respecting the provisions of the Energy Act, on 1 July 2002, Croatia's electricity industry was transformed into a system of related societies of basic and accompanying activities. Respecting the provisions of the Law on Commercial Companies, Croatia's electricity, as is known, is organized as a concept called HEP Group, run by the ruling company Croatia's electricity industry, and all the others below are listed companies over which Croatia's electricity has a dominant influence. It is HEP production, HEP transmission, HEP distribution and HEP supply. The adoption of the Energy Act, the Law on the Regulatory of Energy Activities and the Law on the Market in Electricity practically emanates one serious and large process of restructuring the HEP. What reasons for the restructuring of HEP according to this Law have already been said and I just want to point out once again. In particular, it is a significant unsustainable alignment with the requirements of Directive 2003-54-EC. As a result, this Law will introduce, along with a single transmission system operator, what we have said, the integration of transmission and management systems, the introduction of a distribution system operator, as well as a market operator. This is the important element since today's market operator is in HEP structure and this is in line with the European Union directives, in line with the requirements on the liberalisation of the energy market, is not acceptable. Therefore, there are very complex and important structural changes ahead of HEP for all of these reasons. Finally, such a solution as is known is a European standard. The establishment of the so-called The TSO operator is the task ahead. First of all, it would point out, especially and important because of the international obligations of the Republic of Croatia, i.e. because of the positioning of the formal and strategic Croatian transmission system operator in international frameworks. There is a near signing of important international contracts, i.e., accession to the European Association of transmission system operators, so-called ETSO. And positioning of the Croatian transmission system operator in the bodies of the European Electricity Transfer Association, UCTE. Finally, for all these reasons, the Croatian Democratic Community Club strongly supports this great effort by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to modernise the energy sector of the Republic of Croatia as a whole. And as I said, the first step in modernising this energy sector, this energy system is to adopt a certain package of laws. Again, I stress, in the end, the implementation and implementation of these laws is, I would say, far more complex tasks and more responsible than the definition of laws and their adoption. And for this reason, the Croatian Democratic Community Club expects the implementation of all these laws to be made as high-quality, organised and efficient as this first step towards modernising the legislative system of the Republic of Croatia in the energy sector. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28377	Thank you. HNS representative club, PGS, respected representative of Jaksa Marasovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28378	On my big surprise Friday these laws were included in the agenda. Remember a few weeks ago, which month of discussion on the Council's report on regulation, and no matter what fellow Cosic says we took it into consideration, it seemed to me that we were thinking a little more seriously about this report and what he was saying. It seemed to me that in the Parliament, as well as in the Croatian public, I would say, in a different way than in terms of energy, especially in terms of electroprivreda. I will repeat today, in the 7th month of 84, the last decisions were made on the construction of an energy facility, a source, therefore, of an energy building for production. That's more than 20 years. That's one fact for you. Another fact is that we, depending on the hydrological year, produce between 40 and 50% of total energy as hydroenergy, and the rest or produce from other sources, therefore, and the thermo-source or import. The third fact is that the growth in energy consumption in Croatia is between 4% and 8% in recent years. Unfortunately, not because our industry is growing, but because of a growing comedy. Well, you have a situation where in the Adriatic you have, despite the fact that in winter people are heating up on electricity, you have the same consumption in summer and winter in the last few years. I'll list one more fact. Losses in the distribution and transmission network are 17% in Croatia. To illustrate, in the world it's between 5% and 7%. Now, if we know all that and there's a lot more to know, we're now saying in a hurry, without any analysis of the big, no big debates in professional circles, we say, let's pass energy laws, a package of energy laws. And what do we change about those in 2001 and 2002? We're terminating the Board of Regulators, that's one thing. We set up the Agency and abolish the market operator we return to the vertical in the transmission d.d., HEP transfer d.d. It works, on the grounds that we are doing so in order to comply with European Union directives or market liberalisation, and then we return that operator to whoever holds the monopoly. We are very, very much in line with European directives and very, very liberal about the markets. Because that, you know, is what I'd say, if you were buying, you were going to buy a car, and you were going to buy Mitschubishi, but you came to the Mercs store, and now you're going to buy a Mercedes, right? So that's one of the reasons why these laws change. On the third side of me, I cannot be taken away from the suspicion that such an approach, such an emergency, is not preparing something that I think would be very bad for Croatian energy, which is the faster the sale of Croatian, Croatian energy system. In fact, they cannot be kidnapped for the simple reason that in most of the countries of transition that have already entered the European Union something similar has happened and sold on their regrets, today they regret what they have done because they are far away from GDP, per capital from the European Union, from the former members of the European Union and are now completely dependent on Europe's energy system to our happiness or disaster Europe, and it is dependent on Russia, so today they are not managing their system, but manages the European Union, manages Brussels and manage the bosses who bought it. We have, as I said, about 40% of the production from hydropower produced for free today, because all these power plants were built more than 20 years ago, and some 40 years ago, and some of them, even 100 years ago, and they produce electricity practically free of charge, because they have no depreciation and now imagine a situation where we can find ourselves having discussions about it in Croatia, whether Jaksa Marasovic or someone like that will sell some land to a stranger who is a question of what value it is. And that we're going to sell something that's a national treasure, because it's water, because it's a drop that exists on our waterways, and that's why we get electricity. That's what we're going to sell, and it seems to me that the great danger of this urgency, which we've come to realize today, is that at the very least I could ask the MPs to remove the emergency procedure from these laws, to take this as a first reading and see what to do in the analyses in the next few months before these laws are passed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28379	Thank you. The HSP club is a respected representative of Miroslav Rožic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28380	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Gentlemen and Madam Representatives. It's really a lot of times I'd say fun or less fun to listen to the same subject change attitudes and thinking depending on whether you're in power or you're in opposition. In fact, this is about a package of laws that speaks about regulation of energy activities, i.e. the electricity market and energy. This package of laws is actually the beginning of a break-up with the concept of regulating the Croatian energy market, especially the electricity created between 2000 and 2003. When this concept was adopted and I remind you during the summer extraordinary session of 2000 in the late night hours, which my colleague Slaven Letica would say, when wise owls were hunting mice, then in 2000 at that extraordinary session HSP warned of the unsustainability and harmfulness of Croatian economic interests of such concept. The whole concept was rapid and there is really nothing in the material titled the Croatian energy sector reform proposal, in which even eight pages without any financial indicator suggested such a concept of reform of the Croatian energy sector. So, reforming and liberalising the electricity system. But that is why there was no lack of much appeal then to the European Commission directives and membership in the European Union, all to actually justify the introduction of a system that had not yet been brought to life anywhere back then in 2000. And those who actually tested it and tried it like Italy and Greece now at this same time that we're discussing it, that concept now give up on it. So today we are witnessing that through these changes in the law and the Republic of Croatia such as Italy and Greece finally give up that concept from the system. The changes in the energy system are not harmless, because without any patheticity, it is literally about the economic blood flow of the state, and companies and companies in the field of energy are generally both in capital and in profit strongest in every country in the world. That is why no country is concerned about who or how or in whose interest it directs visions of the development of energy. In addition, INA and HEP are worth at least four and a half billion dollars in the most modest judgments, and any change in energy prices or oil derivatives has a dramatic impact on the economy, as well as on citizens' standards throughout the economy. However, in the Republic of Croatia everything was in the hands of the Energy Regulatory Council, which actually consists of 5 members. And for those five members of this Energy Regulatory Council, there was no sophisticated professional service, but all the professional support for their decisions was provided by the Institute of Fire. So, whether it is electricity or gas tariffs, the restructuring of INE and HEP, the planning of development, etc., all decisions were subject to the famous professional influence of the Institute "Croatia Pozar" and its director, the famous strategy of Goran Granić, and of course not for free, but equally not necessarily professionally and impartially and of course not necessarily in the national interest of Croatia. More specifically, without excess environments, the whole system has been regulated by law so far that the director of the "Croatian Fire" Institute was actually the master of Croatia's energy sector. It is therefore logical to establish a private agency with the Council as its professional service when it is already going to create an independent regulator, a liberal energy market. So why all the rush to liberalising the energy sector when no one in Croatia knows exactly how much electricity our country will need in 5 or 25 years. How much energy will we be able to recover from our investments, for example in Serbia, Bosnia and Herzegovina? No national development strategy has yet been developed. The alleged reason for the reform of the energy sector, i.e. the law on the liberalisation of the electricity market, which was discussed by the Parliament in 2000, was Croatia's involvement in European integration. But that's certainly completely pointless. Why? In particular, the 1997 European Union Directive on the liberalisation of the electricity market advocates national sovereignty over its own energy and transport systems, i.e. power lines, pipelines, pipelines, etc. In addition, the said directive provides for 2 equal underlines the equal model of regulating electricity markets, so on. The open market model, which was in fact the basis of that 2000 strategy. Based on the example of part of the EU member states and even more famous California. In other words, from the other old model of the only buyer that is in power in Croatia today. And they apply it in the European Union, including Italy, France and Ireland. So, if the Italians, French and Irish, along with this system of the only buyer, recorded economic growth within the European Union, why could it not continue to apply to Croatia? At that time, however, the government chose an open market model that envisioned the development of INA and HEP to private private companies that freely, therefore without state control, trade in energy and fuel. However, Croatia's national interest is to monitor its market energy in the model of the only buyer. Not even the most concerned supporters of the free market in the European Union or in the United States would allow themselves, for example, to be monitored by 75 to 80% of the energy market. The privatisation of HEP also meant the sale of Croatian family silver. In addition, newly created private companies will not have the conditions to survive, so they will gladly increase electricity prices differently in different parts of Croatia. The fight of private profit companies will eliminate their will to expand power plants and improve the transport network, and contrary to the current obligation of HEP to provide electricity to everyone in the territory of Croatia, this new model of the open market involves consumer freedom to choose the most favourable energy supplier, even outside Croatia. the freedom to import electricity, for example from Ukraine. But at the same time, the freedom of energy suppliers to choose a buyer of electricity outside Croatia, for example, in Italy. No matter how much Croatia really needs energy right now. So none of the privates in that model are responsible for, for example, the lack of electricity, because they actually aim at profit, i.e. exporting electricity where it can be sold without risk. All of these happened in California. After privatising and liberalising the electricity market according to the open market model and causing energy supply instability and power reductions, watch out for power cuts in California. This, however, would cause even more suffering and power reduction in Croatia than those we witnessed in 92. On the other hand, a sharp rise in electricity and fuel prices, which would completely affect the Croatian economy. Although work is fortunately far behind us, Croatia has no reason to repeat California's mistakes today. All Croatian residents with discomfort remember periods of power cuts during the war years. It is possible, however, that we will experience a reduction of electricity throughout Croatia in a few years, for example. For those who do not consider it possible, it is worth mentioning the news of the CCN as of 18 January this year in connection with the power shortage in California. So, in California with such a successful economy that it would belong to the eight richest countries in the world if, by any chance, it was independent, in January of this year even the famous Governor Schwarzenegger and his government were tortured by power shortages. California was missing 18 gigawatts a day, so just before the summer heats when the air conditioning device greatly increases energy consumption. The crisis hasn't been resolved until today. The state of California imported some electricity from other countries, and it paid off part of the debt only to the largest private distributor, a private electricity distributor in California, which is "Pacific GS and eletic", which, after all of that, was bankrupt. The governor proposed austerity measures for higher electricity consumption and increased electricity prices by 150 to 300%. Sounds very familiar to you, 'cause so? So the whole thing is out in California to the citizens, who are the least guilty of it. Of course, far from me wanting to compare Croatia with California, which is no longer necessary to doubt whether such a vital economy is going to know how to get out of this energy crisis, especially since Governor Arnold Schwarzenegger is. Yet if California could afford so much trouble from the so-called. The liberalisation and model of the open electricity market, what would happen to Croatia then? That's why we at the HSP Club repeat what we said in 2000. It must leave the open market model urgently and return to the only buyer model, such as Italy or as such a model in the European Union has France, Ireland and some other countries. And secondly, don't forget that with this package of laws here today, the proposed law on the privatisation of HEP has to be changed, otherwise nothing will be done, this will remain a dead letter on paper. Unfortunately, we lost most of our INA. Therefore, leaving the open market model and changing the HEP Privatisation Act would finally protect the Croatian electricity system from the risk of collapse and protect the Croatian economy from possible collapse. The only damage could then be suffered by Croatian Energy Strategy Goran Granic due to the decline in the value of the shares of the Institute of Hrvoje Pozar, but I think it is a damage that we can all bear. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28381	Thank you. Dear Representative Slavko Linic SDP's Club of Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28382	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Mr. Secretary. The SDP club assesses that the proposed package of laws has come to an urgent debate and surprising. Why surprising? Because we don't see the reason for this... We really don't see her. Four years ago, a reform of the energy system began, and it is evident that after four years, a studio evaluation of such a reform should be approached and then expected experts to propose changes, complement and take the greatest burden of new amendments and additions to the law. Unfortunately, the whole package is in front of us overnight, which means the experts weren't involved in making these documents. It is evident that it is part of the experts who are employed in HEP and that here we have experts who primarily seek to define their opinion on the basis of the interest of HEP. The question is whether what is called the continuation of the reform is what is called and the attempt to prepare our system for the European market, but also the question is whether this will finally enable us to invest in the electricity system and finally build energy capacities that we haven't had in more than 20 years. So, the biggest drawback for all of us who have to discuss today is that we don't have that score, which happened in four years. These materials that are in front of us are not listed. In fact, it is likely for political reasons that it is evident that it is silenced that what happened this four years, we have no quality comments. It's like nothing's happened in the last four years. And as we can see from the debates so far, we have a lot of groundbreaking actions and steps in the process of creating an energy market in Croatia. But since we are represented in such a situation, we obviously need to show ourselves about the proposals that are ahead of us so that we can in some way make a decision in the vote itself. The SDP estimates that with the proposed laws, we only have a few important changes, so it is important to highlight them. This is a change in which the transmission regulator returns to HEP and HEP is now becoming a vertical organisation related to electricity. It's the biggest change. Return of transmission regulators or transmission operator to HEP. It's an important change and we're going to talk more about whether it's good and whether it's making a difference. Secondly, what we see is the government's policy proposal, which is the reduction of an independent operator in regulation of market legality in the energy sector and, of course, the formation of an agency directly under the influence of the Government, means direct interference of the government in the electricity market and other energy sources, given that the agency is no longer an independent body and that it has an impact on the entire system of regulators. And what is also important to note, given that this reform is now trying to show itself as a new process we have a two-year delay, I would say privatisation processes. I'd say investment in the energy sector, but two years is a delay in tariff systems. Therefore, and our expectations that we will finally be able to discuss the tariff systems in particular the supply of electricity. It's about the important newspaper of this package that's ahead of us. And that's why when we talk about SDP's position even though we haven't defined it hard yet so that we can accept this kind of package-making approach and that we can approach it, accept these proposals since these are the newspapers that are here before us. It may still be necessary to indicate that we are assessing even though this whole package is also called for by the European Union Directives, it is evident that these directives have been well prescribed but that the reform resulting from these Directives has not been introduced into these laws. And that this is essentially just one of the beginnings of the opening of the Croatian energy market and the attempts I would say modernising the energy market without those moves that we are obviously going to have to do what will be difficult for us after negotiations with the Commission during the negotiation proceedings. Therefore, under other people's pressure, and not because we would have today a proposal from experts who must see what this is for 20 years the energy market in the Republic of Croatia. And a few hints about the individual law. The characteristics of the Energy Act are the process of returning regulators to the vertical organisation of HEP. That's what we can judge whether it's good or not. It is evident that the process of returning the transmission operator would not be good for the SDP to return to HEP. Whatever we think about the privatisation processes of HEP is possible to happen. Whatever we think about new investments in the gas thermal power plant that needs Croatia, in the Hydropower plant at Virje. Whether HEP will do this, whether it will work private capital in Croatia is always a fundamental issue of electricity transmission, how much the return to HEP will be an obstacle to the transmission of electricity produced in Croatia from private capital or the transfer of electricity beyond our borders it will only be seen with these new solutions. It is also evident in the solutions so far, especially since 2000, that the interest of Croatia must be that the operator in the transmission of electricity must be a company owned by the Croatian state, it is a monopoly and over that monopoly must feel the politics of the Croatian state. Therefore, there should be neither privatisation processes nor the interest of a private company, or, say, mixed companies, or tomorrow will be owned in HEP depending on the future that will take place in Croatia for privatisation processes. Therefore, by returning to HEP there is a problem especially if the HEP Privatisation Act is not changed to get private owners, regardless of whether it will be strategic, whether it will be financially and over the transfer which should not be allowed and we try to understand that new construction and gas power plants and Hydropower plants will require private capital. It may be pension funds, but it's unacceptable for them to own the transfer, it's unacceptable. And that is the weakness of this solution that has been offered. So much for talking about transfer decisions... So much for talking about transfer solutions. What I'm trying to say is that's also gas-related discounts. We find that storage of gas and gas distribution is a public activity, not a commercial activity that confuses these solutions, it is evident that we will try to address the amendments to these shortcomings. But we still see one problem. The biggest problem in Croatia is different prices. 28 different prices in gas distribution. And now there was an opportunity to have a unique gas price system in distribution in Croatia. And that could have been solved, there's no solution offered in the Energy Act. Speaking of the electricity market, we return to the assessment of whether the transmission operator means a stable market if it is independent. That simply with the ownership roles of the Croatian state, the complete control of the Croatian state over an independent operator can enable investment in Croatia in new capacities. In new capacities that we haven't built in 20 years, into new hats that will cause us trouble. Because we have a deficit problem, we have problems with new investments. It's just that the international financial world is trying to stop and control us in investment. HEP will not be able to fully enter the new gas plant of the new hydropower plant. Will such solutions stop foreign capital, domestic capital, huge capital in pension funds that could finally move towards energy and reduce Croatia's dependence on energy imports. Therefore, I think that part that speaks of the transmission operator is badly solved both with one law and the other. And of course we're going back here to basic conflicts in surveillance, and that's the Law on the regulation of energy activities. I also listened to my predecessor talking about the negative role of the Hrvoje Fire Energy Institute. Indeed, we in Croatia must ask ourselves what is happening to us. If the problem is one man, then let's talk about a man but the Energy Institute means a system in Croatia where it is evident that through the institutes we must create a professional base, a base of experts, not political representatives who will try to modernise the market for any activity in Croatia. And it is evident that it is the institutes that have to be in the function of independent regulators in order to have as little policy impact as possible, in order to have a minor impact on the problem of the state budget in the relationship between the service manufacturer and the service user. So far, the solution in which we had the Energy Regulatory Council as a comprehensive independent Council which had the opportunity to act without the influence of the Government and the policy and on tariff systems, security of supply, quality of delivery to customers in this section are being reduced. And we're turning again towards a strong state intervention. We estimate that's not good. We estimate that it is not good when we have independent institutions, that it is not good when we have professional institutions formed in institutes because they are approximately solutions that exist in the modern world, especially in modern Europe. No, we have a problem, Goran Granic. We have a problem. It's a tragedy for Croatia. And what are we introducing? We're introducing agencies. Direct influence of the Croatian Government on regulators. What we have finally avoided in many activities when we talk about supervision of financial institutions, supervision of pension funds, means the institutes we have formed to simply remove policy, to remove the influence of the executive authorities, to share responsibility, in energy that is the problem of Croatia, and the problem of Croatia is because we do not have enough energy sources and we have natural gas in the Adriatic and we have water and water resources, we have again the influence of politics, the impact of politics. I don't think that's a good solution either. These are all reasons that the SDP Club will likely point to a negative attitude towards this package and we offer a solution and we call on the representatives of the motion that these laws are instructed in the first reading, to include the expert energy public around these solutions, to try to assess with a little more words that happened from 2000 to 2003, which are positive, negative moments both in Croatia and in Europe for which we would have to change something important. Because there is simply no need to stop reforms, to go back one step and maybe, tomorrow, under pressure from the European Commission, change these laws. Because that's when we show our independence and our weakness. And I think another reading would probably fix some of these important, important things in regulating energy activities for our new generation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28383	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the respected representative Krešimir Ćosic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28384	In his presentation, Mr Linic often mixed the terms of operators and regulators, these are important different things. However, I want to point out one thing, it is not true that the current structure of the Council of the Institute was a good solution and we are here in this House clearly pointed out that the Council for the Regulatory of Energy Activities with three employees serves as an institution for the transmission of money to the Institute, the Energy Institute of Hrvoje Pozhar, it is not a good solution and it is an unacceptable solution. This solution is far more high-quality because the agency will have the competences that it should have as a regulatory body in the energy sector with professional people and with appropriate financial revenues. Three employees cannot address quality important and responsible issues in the energy sector of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28385	Minister of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship Branko Vukelic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28386	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Here, allow me a few sentences, more arguments, given these findings made by the respected parliamentary representative Mr. Linic above all about the agency that is proposed to establish and about its independence. Therefore, it is not possible to talk at all about the Agency's dependence on the government or on politics. Otherwise, when in the European Union and discussing the independence of agencies or councils that we now have to regulate energy activities, then it is about independence from HEP and not from the Government or the Parliament. Most European countries have a council or agency appointed by the government. We went here with a proposal that the board, i.e. the administrative board of the agency appointed the Parliament of Croatia, so that we would not put this task to the Government, although we would not put that task to the Government, although I repeat, in most European countries the case. Therefore, this agency, unlike the Energy Regulatory Council of the current one, has another independent happiness that its solution is finally and cannot go to the second stage of the objection and objection to the Ministry or Government, but rather the administrative dispute is being initiated, the procedure. Therefore, the independence of this agnation is also visible, and what is significantly different between this agency and the Council, is that this agency will be far stronger, far more professional, and therefore more independent because it will not be based on 5 people but will be based on a board of directors made up of experts that you will choose here in the Croatian Parliament and from the experts of the agency's staff and unfortunately only now will we get close to these countries, Southeast Europe or I would say these neighbours are very close to that in both the energy system and many other systems far less developed than we are, and they have agencies with 20 people running these jobs. So it's a supplement and a correction to what's not right now. And one more thing I want to point out: it is not true that the debate on these laws has not been conducted in professional circles. All experts were included and members of the Energy Regulatory Council, today, and all observations, most of the observations were incorporated into these laws. Therefore, the debate was held. Unless we want to say that the opinion or position of the expert I trust is the only correct one, I don't recognize the other. However, we must also allow different views of experts, but surely this energy law package, which is a step forward and an improvement in the existing situation, legislation that touches this area, and not to say that we are dealing with one important thing that is important with these laws because you have all been witnesses and discussions are under way on the creation of a common energy market in Southeast Europe. We were all very pleased with our great achievement, and this is the link between the energy system of Southeast Europe in, with the construction and restoration of the Ernestinovo Trafo station, the need to define and regulate electricity trading within the European Union. So within that common market and the basics are therefore precisely in these laws that are before you today, and I think that is why it is important and as soon as possible to pass these laws, and I repeat the laws are very well discussed in all the professional circles that are important for this, for this sector and for this problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28387	Thank you. At 11 he's 5. It's time to apply for a ten-minute hearing. We're going to an individual debate. Honored representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28388	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary with associates, colleagues and colleagues. With these three laws, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Energy Act and then on the Energy Market and on the regulation of energy activities, surely will interest our citizens above all, and what will happen to the electricity market. So far, as it has been seen from all three laws, only 16 large companies that spent more than 40 gigawatts of hours a year and were able to choose suppliers. By passing the proposed laws, however, this limit would be reduced to 20, but we see a certain period when this would happen. Thus, on 1 July 2006, there should be an open market for consumers who spend more than 9 and a year later and for the entire enterprise. And since July 1st, only 2008 for all customers, or for the whole, for all households. But there, what is already my colleague on behalf of the SDP Club, Linic, pointed out that it is among the most important and perhaps what is the most controversial legislative changes involved in the abolition of the now separated activities of the power system management and it unites with the portable. In addition to the single transmission system operator, an operator of the distribution system is introduced, and the market operator is singled out outside the HEP organisational structure. Instead of the current Energy Regulatory Council, this is what is most controversial, the new law provides for the establishment of a Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency as an independent and non-profit institution. The agency, as we have just now had the opportunity to hear from the minister who laughs, and I also came to laugh when he explained all the independence of the members who will settle in this agency, so all the methodologies, or all the tariff systems without the amounts themselves, are brought by the regulatory authority and the height of the tariff items. prices in all tariff systems would therefore again be determined by the Government. The law introduces a provision, which is something and positive that construction, that buildings without a building permit may be connected, that they must not be connected to the energy system, so that neither to the electricity, neither to the gas or to the heat grid. However, the intention would thus result in the government trying to continue the second part of the energy reform launched by the former coalition government in 2001. However, this whole now accelerated package, which should have been considered in detail among experts and thus among the parliamentarians themselves in general, came quickly amongst all the public, and then it is as normal as it may be logical that all reforms, especially when speedy and hasty, are then forced to suffer a lot of criticism, as well as the remarks of experts who themselves point out that a broad expert debate has not been conducted. The laws under emergency procedure are in no way, and especially in this segment do not guarantee that solutions will be appropriate, that solutions will be consistent, and that is why they can achieve the opposite effect of slowing down this reform. This is exactly how it was concluded at the meeting of the Energy Council of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce. But as the government and the general government normally refer to the profession and the fact that the President has just stated to the Council for the Regulatory of Energy Activities in the public that only the Council has given its testimony to this, these legislative proposals that have been submitted to them on more than 20 pages, which has not been addressed by the Ministers. And you see it in a time of great propaganda, great achievements of government, and at the time of the government's open door. It may be that the government remained and opened a window on that occasion, so there may have been a leak where all the remarks, where all the demands were made by the citizens, were experts simply blowing them away. The president of the Council further points out that everything that has been achieved so far should not be destroyed. In any case, it should not be weakened says the position and importance of the regulatory body but should be strengthened exactly the opposite because good regulation is precisely a crucial role for new investments. The weakening of the position of regulators is obviously precisely that the agency is now simply bringing only tariff systems in order to determine the height of the tariff systems of the government. However, the government should now withdraw a little, but certainly withdraw from pricing because that is exactly what the trends in the European Union are about. They're heading towards strengthening the role of regulators. This same Council also believes that retaining all functions within a single market participant is precisely the consolidation of the monopoly, and that the purpose and purpose of further reform is precisely set out by the Government's representatives to achieve the opposite. to establish a market. The Council also believes that retaining all functions within it will cause one participant, and there is no need to dispute at all, will also cause major problems, but in negotiations with the European Union. And it should not be noted that the members of the European Union, starting in France, Great Britain to Slovenia but equally the candidate countries such as Romania and Bulgaria, have singled out a transmission system operator and a vertical company structure. Returning everything to a vertically integrated company will indeed be, according to the president of that council, a red cloth to the European Union. However, whether or not the Government has an answer to this question now is why we are now making it in an urgent and urgent manner of these laws that we will soon have to change at the beginning of the negotiations. And for the citizens, perhaps the most crucial question about all of this is whether it's actually going to be this cheap electricity. It's something that Mr. did right now and when we discuss with these laws, and they're going to do it. It's hard, it's hard because this is usually a deaf time for ordinary citizens' problems.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28389	Representative Nenad Stazic. He's gone. He's losing his word. Representative Ivana Sučec Trakoštanec.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28390	I thank Mr. President, and I will, of course, be very brief in supporting any attempt to introduce order on the energy market of energy generators, distributions and consumer supplies to those who, out of caution, are monitoring all these processes for several reasons. So the first thing that comes from a county that is rich in potential, of course, hydropotentials with natural gas and geothermal waters and where we do not know how to legally enable ownership of these potentials of course production and distribution. And where, of course, we take care of that environmental protection that's always in sync with the use of energy. So on the one hand, you have the benefit and on the other of that opportune, so to speak, the damage. And that opportunity cost which in the economy, of course, economists know what it means is something that our county accesss with special caution. That's one thing. The other thing is, I'm going to be a very open energy isn't just a heat supply or something. Energy is a national wealth, both strategic and national interest. So, the way we're dealing with the state that we're in the Union is one thing, and, of course, we can't be the exception, but I deeply hope that all those involved in this process from the government, the Ministria, the regulatory body and those involved in production, distribution, supply and transferable will take care of the protection and these national interests, therefore I will give support to these laws. but we will, of course, also as Parliament, assume, monitor and adopt tariff systems and adopt price systems. And don't mind me saying that I'm still very careful for another reason. I remember when Croatia sold share in telecommunications when I was one of the MPs who was against the Croatian state selling a majority package in telecommunications and I was right. We were then told that the state of Croatia as a state cannot own telecommunications, it needs a liberal market. It turned out the following, we sold it to Deute Telecom and the majority owner of Duutche Telecom was the German state. So it turns out that the Croatian state cannot own telecommunications but it can be a German state in Croatia. And I am deeply convinced that what will happen in this energy sector that we are talking about today. So with that faith, I'm going to encourage these laws. But with caution, I will monitor their application. And let me, as a consumer, that's the end I want to say here, be allowed to say that I want to introduce order. But that we may sometimes go too far with these wishes, because I have found in the cassle of Croatian HEP's flyers distribution where, of course, wanting to discover those consumers who do not pay contributions that are not in the system of recorded consumers, that some way invites people to denunciation, instead of revealing to their channels experts from their services that are competent to do so where energy is unauthorized. It even offers rewards to those who denunciate their neighbors friends or I don't know who but, if such a case exists. Well, I'm not sure that's the best way. So, I want to introduce order but in a way that's appropriate than a denunciation prize. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28391	Thank you. Honorable representative Vlado Yekovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28392	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Secretary. So here are the three energy laws that form in some way the regulatory energy activity process that started in 2001, and after certain delays to these proposals, this process continues. Of course, there have been some additions over the past few years, so I would also, in some ways, remove or express a different view compared to those who suggest that final laws be postponed rather than other readings. It is absolutely certain that it will be complemented in the next period and will therefore be brought into line with European legislation through these supplements. But also with what daily practice in Croatia will require legislators. These legislative proposals therefore prescribe certain guidelines and other laws that will be introduced, related to energy activity, and so much is needed as quickly and as quickly as possible to pass these laws. Today, in the debate between individual clubs and individual debates, the most spears were somehow broken over the jurisdiction of the Croatian Labour Agency, and the analysis gave its introduction positive or negative. So let's let the time go, but I think that if the Croatian Parliament appoints these people or those members, it can always change them. It also affects its competence through its solutions. A structural energy price is also introduced to ensure that all consumers know what enters that price. In particular, natural persons and small businesses as energy users are protected and it is prescribed that all users have the right to choose to buy electricity. These legislative proposals form a new calculation of the transmission of electricity to abroad. And assumptions are being made for the adoption of sublegal acts which should result in greater liberalisation of the energy market. The fact is and this is what should be particularly apostrophyd in some way, that these legal proposals also begin to eliminate the HEP monopoly and continue the HEP restructuring process and, of course, it should be very careful in these processes. It has not been mentioned so far, I also think that it should be pointed out that these legal acts also create assumptions for improving the use of renewable energy sources in Croatia, which have not been used nearly enough so far, through different benefits and privileged conditions and we believe that this is what we are creating this nuclearus incentivising better use of renewable sources. I therefore support the adoption of these laws, aware that this matter will continue to be complemented by legal solutions, harmonize with European legislation, but also with the needs of life as time and the situation will be imposed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28393	Thank you. Replica, representative Krešimir Ćosic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28394	Well, here's a short replica. Mr Jelkovac argued that the better the solution, the Energy Regulatory Council or agencies, should be given time. I'd like to comment briefly. This is not an approach managed by the government, and so, this methodology, that time is an arbitration of what is a better solution, is simply not acceptable. The government has sought a better solution, the government has found a better solution and the government has proposed a better solution with this law, and I hope that we will soon adopt this better and better solution for a simple reason. The Board of Regulators had two and a half employees. With two-and-a-half employees, they couldn't do such complex and responsible jobs in this country. The agency will be structured in such a way that it can represent all interests in the energy sector which is extremely complex and heterogeneous. So I want to point out one more time. The solution that has been delivered to us, tested and verified in professional circles is better and better quality. The government recognized him, the government proposed him, I believe this House will recognize him and support him. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28395	Replication response. Mr. Representative Vladimir Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28396	I fully agree with what Mr. Cosic said was certainly a better solution to this proposed by the government. I may not have been clear enough in my discussion, but I wanted to point out then that time would also show how this solution is better.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28397	Dear Representative Milan Meden.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28398	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and fellow MPs. As the Republic of Croatia is a signator of the European Energy Charter with the aim of liberalising energy sectors and accessing competition systems to existing transmission and transport systems today, we are discussing legislation on the electricity market as well as regulation of energy activities. In addition to Croatia being a signator of the European Charter, we must ask ourselves fundamental questions as to what kind of energy system Croatia is today in relation to the European environment, which are our objectives, whether we have a clear strategy, whether we have resources that can implement it, above all I mean human potential, how this regulation will apply to the price of the user. Today HEP is a monopoly in Croatia, but we are witnessing that there are no excessive negative reactions from the market at the price. I believe that this is not the reason for the price and quality of the delivery of the service, i.e. energy. The reason is that the user in the monopoly has no choice, so politicisation and media pressures would be in vain. Of course, the simplest thing is not to change regulation, but ultimately for the economy and users is the worst solution. What exactly is our current situation? The reform of the energy sector and, in particular, the reform of the electricity sector represents an extremely complex task, which is very likely the most complex task facing the energy sector in Croatia throughout its history. It is necessary to introduce entirely new relations, define new entities and establish a completely new legal and other regulation in this sector. That this task is not even a little simple, shows examples of problems faced by countries that have a rich tradition of market development and market relations and built institutions of the social and economic system. The Croatian energy sector has just over a year of experience in introducing market relations on the energy sector. There is a need to build institutional relations between entities in the energy sector, which is a particularly delicate task for each country, given the existing universal solutions and with regard to the models in which each country adapts to tradition, heritage and organisation. It should be borne in mind that the energy sector is just a necessary assumption for a smooth development of the economy and society as a whole and that as such is not the purpose of itself. The Energy Regulatory Act aims to open the market, introduce competition, give continuous conditions to all suppliers, and establish regulation that allows for monitoring of the objectives set. It is certainly the most difficult task to protect customers and energy operators, and this goal is achieved only with the assumption of a successful competition, therefore competition. This means that the way to entrepreneurship in the field of energy is not easy. He's ruthless, but he's inevitable. Today in Croatia, the role of regulators is formally performed only by the Board of Regulators, and today we heard, and I didn't even know that it has 3, 5 or 2 and a half employees, as we heard in the debate, and professional affairs and most of these acts are carried out by the Energy Institute "Hrvoje Pozhar". This morning, on the Committee on European Integration, a representative of the legislators of this law called the Institute a non-profit organisation whose employees co-operate closely with the Council. This definition of non-profitism may be a key problem, because certainly one quality regulation cannot be run by volunteers, and the Institute is funded by various projects financed by the government. So the definition of non-profit by the term "proposer" would actually be state, and when we talk about the budget deficit, that's when it's measured in billions of dollars or euros. On the other hand, today MP Slavko Linic spoke about the independence of this Institute, where it is certainly difficult to speak politically about independence, because it is known that he is headed by the former Deputy Prime Minister. The Council, by definition, does not manage the Institute, raises the question of the independence of such a body, as well as the speed of processes that should introduce competence on the electricity market. The Council's reports often mention and call for the provisions of Directive 2003/54/EC, which was discussed by MP Cosic in the context of independence and transparency of the work of energy operators. However, it must be pointed out that the functional and legal independence of energy entities under the same Directive is not linked to ownership, i.e. does not necessarily assume the transfer of ownership to a specific entity. Thus, the independence of the energy system is also highly questionable in this way. Furthermore, I would like to say, regarding the organisation of the work of the Council, therefore the existing Energy Regulatory Council, has so far carried out a number of activities of considerable importance and scope, but it is necessary to consider the necessary personnel teaming and organisation and restructuring of this Council. In particular, it should be borne in mind that the current organisation, the organisational implementation of Council expert support, is unfavourable in terms of the European Commission. In order to bring this regulatory regulation of energy activities in line with European Union directives, this law establishes the Agency for the Regulatory of Energy Activities as a public and independent institution, which has an administrative council headed by the Director. The Agency's core tasks will be to monitor the overall energy system, issue energy performance permits, approve plans for development and construction of the network, control of tariff systems and all other energy entities. When we are actually discussing it this way, it seems that the process of setting up and acting of the Agency is simple and that actually the Agency can start soon or immediately after the New Year. If that were not the case, we also witnessed the Law on Telecommunications of July last year which clearly defined the organisation of the Agency in the next six months. We were all witnesses in the Croatian Parliament when, because of the different views of intricacies or perhaps misunderstandings, we had to postpone the deadline for the establishment of the Governing Council of the Agency, and this current Telecommunications Council was appointed just over a month ago with heated debates in this House. At that time, some of our colleagues had a strong debate on the expertise of the members of the Agency's Council, on their bias, on the influence and lobbying of... operators, and particularly on sharp steps related to the international tender of the third GSM operator, and they called it the reasons of a billion kuna. These representatives may have forgotten to say that the future operator will have to invest a billion kunas in order to perhaps expect a billion kuna profit in 2014. Whether we are expected to have this kind of activity and exhaustive debate with the Governing Council of the Energy Agency, we leave it to time, but for a short time I would like to say and give full support to harmonising with the European Union and regulation, and I personally hold that we are in the field of energy activities in favour. Why? Because HEP is actually the only monopolies right now. Making quality legislation can ensure that competition is entered without great stress in favour of the economy and small consumers. The Regulatory Agency is waiting for a responsible job, but also matches with adverse influences perhaps from state structures, existing monopolies and future potential competitors. Unbiased conditions for the inclusion and participation in the electricity market will be met by harmonised and functional laws, not by transfer of ownership and liability from this or that legal entity, and by experience of the functioning of the electricity system of European countries, as well as on other continents, suggest that security is also for long-term reliability... the consumer is the most well-thinked legal arrangement of the sector, not the positioning of ownership. [[You don't understand.]] The question arises whether the best market organisation guarantees the lowest price. This is primarily what our users are interested in and whether it provides the most reliable option. Not at all. The market is best organised today, I think, in Great Britain, Finland, Spain, we heard maybe in Ireland that is 100% open, but some of the other countries where openness is also 100% related to prices and openness do not confirm. On the other hand, in many countries that have regulated the market and completely opened it after the initial price decline, there is again a trend in price growth, especially for household consumers. So the price is not the lowest in all countries with complete openness. Today we also discussed the privatisation of HEP as the only monopolies. There is a law on the privatisation of HEP that stimulates the participation of workers owned by HEP, but I believe that it is not yet known in detail in which way. Let's be honest, I believe that today we don't know what the real value of HEP is, but I am sure that possible co-ownership and management of HEP by workers would actually be well received in public, and according to European experiences, the government would not be able to slow down such an initiative. And in the end, I conclude that it would be important not only for energy subjects... to have their own interests, but first and foremost in the field of electricity states to recognise long-term and national strategic interests and exploit their strategic position. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28399	Thank you. Honourable representative Zvonimir Puljic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28400	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, Mr. Minister. We have three energy laws before us, the Energy Act, that is, its amendments and additions to the Electricity Market Act and the Energy Regulatory Act. With this legislative package, Croatia is preparing a basis for a follow-up, i.e. a second step in energy reform aimed at liberalising energy markets and enabling third parties to access transmission and transport systems. The first step was taken on 19 July 2001 when the Parliament adopted the Energy Act as a roof law in the energy field and four other laws in this area. Today, however, almost five years after the adoption of these laws, it is evident that the current Energy Act is not complete, it does not cover all the problems especially of those processes and activities that have strengthened not only in Europe but also in us. Such as rationalising consumption and energy efficiency development of cogeneration, i.e. Concomitant production of electricity and heat, i.e. at least two media in the single process, the development of renewable energy sources of bio-mass and bio-fuels, energy protection issues and environmental protection with this activity. These terms are neither present in the applicable law or under-quality, so the existing legal framework has become too narrow to develop energy activities and organise energy markets, or liberalising it. In addition, coordination with a number of European Union documents adopted after 2001 should be carried out. Directive 2003/44/EC foresees a unique transmission system operator transmission system operator, tasked with transferring and managing the power system while our current Energy Act treats and activities as separate. Such a solution, ultimately, would lead to a threat to the security of the power system's drive and, therefore, this law changes the next logic of the technological unity of the existing system and introduces a single transmission system operator in Croatia. Furthermore, technical conditions have recently been created for the expansion of electricity trade in the region, which has been made public with the European Union's top representatives in the Ernestinov Trafo station, so the haste to adopt the amendment of the Energy Act is necessary in order not to halt the process of signing international contracts to prevent us from joining European associations and agreements, as well as to prevent access to funds. The electricity market law, Article 31, lays down deadlines in which customers are gradually given the free choice of electricity suppliers, which provides for this right to be extended to all customers by 1 July 2008 so that the process of opening the whole market will be completed. Of course, he was treated, but in the first stage, the normative privileged buyer from 40 gigawatt hours to 20 gigawatt hours is downgraded to customers with consumption of more than 9 gigawatt hours and on 1 July 2007 for buyers of category entrepreneurs. The energy regulation law of Articles 6 and 7 defines the establishment of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency HERA as an independent non-profit organisation to regulate participants and relations in the entire energy market of Croatia. This is certainly a better solution than this current ineffective regulatory council that does not have its own logistics and has not been able to fulfil the expected tasks. And without further ado, I suggest that we adopt these three energy laws by emergency procedure, as suggested, in order to initiate this process which was actually lagging behind after 2001 and did not meet expectations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28401	Thank you. Final review, Minister Branko Vukelic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28402	Thank you, Mr. President, Your Honor, and Mr. Parliamentarians. Allow me a few sentences after these discussions regarding these three very important energy laws, i.e. amendments to the Energy Act and two of these new laws. First of all, I want to make it clear that it is necessary to pass these laws for several reasons. I'll just say the most important. First, since the adoption of the Law from 2001 to today, the circumstance has been that we have new European Union directives, and these laws, therefore, are laws that need to be brought into line with the legislation of the European Union. And secondly, this year since 2001, which has shown that the existing legislation is not good, that it needs to be changed because of the existing process, I would say, and the liberalisation of the energy market, as well as the restructuring of energy entities in Croatia, has been halted. So it was necessary to pass these laws. And I also want to make it clear that these laws have been made with consultation and agreement with the Commission of the European Union. So, with the European Union. These laws will not experience any red cloth in Europe. So, they were made in agreement with these legal decisions, the Commission of the European Union has been informed, so we have agreement on such a model or these changes or such legal solutions. And just as it is important to say, here someone mentioned, examples of France and even if it is possible, in the examples of the European Union countries, that the transmission operator in the system, therefore, HEP or in the system, therefore, the Vetirl Holding Organisation, is possible and the consultant was, for example, one of the consultants from France because France has this model. So we need to be clear about what we're talking about, facts that are unquestionable. So, these models exist in Europe, they can get the European Commission's green light and are acceptable to us clearly that in the subsequent adoption of sublegal acts and in the implementation of these laws we achieve what needs to be achieved and the independence of individual entities to each other. And what I also want to say again clearly, the Agency, is not at all questionable whether the Agency or the Council for... energy activities. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] There's no country in Europe that doesn't have an agency. The agency model has been accepted everywhere and that is the practice of all European Union countries. The Agency, therefore, is a more quality solution to the regulators of the agencies is more independent, we are changing important things compared to the current status of the Council for... energy activities. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, we are increasing this independence and I think it is this very solution that will get the green light, and I would say, I would edit our legislation when it comes to the energy sector in line with the European Union, but also that these legal solutions will be a quality basis for, with clear, sublegal acts for further, and further restructuring of energy entities in the Republic of Croatia for the abolition of the HEP monopoly and for, clearly, the liberalisation of the energy market in Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28403	Thank you. I am concluding the debate on the final proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Energy Act, on the electricity market and on the Energy Regulatory Act. We are going to the Final Proposal of the Law on energy regulation, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. 203 The debate on the text of the law is over. We also have, this time something smaller, 18 amendments from the government that she filed off-limits. We voted that we would debate and vote on these amendments that were submitted outside the deadline. Now we're going individually. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28405	Thank you, Mr. President. The first article, the 1st amendment, refers to Article 7 and it is also nomotechnically edited.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28406	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I'm voting on that amendment. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Restraint? I'm confirming Amendment One has been accepted by 78 for seven abstentions. I had to say it 27 times there, here 17, so when it's done, and when it's done, this is what's left. Amendment 2.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28407	Article 9 is amended as follows:
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28408	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on Amendment 2. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Restraint? 78 votes in seven abstentions. Amendment 3.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28409	Article 11 of the Law is amended as follows:
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28410	Yeah. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on Amendment 3. Who's in? Against? Restraint? 78 votes in seven abstentions. Amendment 4.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28411	Article 12 of the Law shall be amended.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28412	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I'm voting on that amendment. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Restraint? 78 for six abstentions. Amendment 5.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28413	Article 15 of the Law shall be amended.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28414	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on Amendment 5. Who's in? Against? Restraint? 78 for six abstentions. Amendment 6.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28415	Article 16 of the Law is amended as follows:
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28416	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on Amendment 6. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Restraint? 78 for six abstentions. Amendment 7.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28417	Article 18 of the Law shall be amended.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28418	Who's in? I'm opening a debate. I'm closing up. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Restraint? 78 votes in six abstentions. Amendment 8.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28419	Article 19 of the Law shall be amended.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28420	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing up. Who's for Amendment 8? Thank you. Against? Restraint? 78 for, 1 against, 5 abstentions. Amendment 9.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28421	Article 21 of the Law shall be amended.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28422	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on Amendment 8. Who's in? Nine. Does an alarm clock ring a bell? Against? Restraint? 78 for, 2 against, 4 abstentions. Amendment 10.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28423	Article 22 is amended as follows:
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28424	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing up. Who's for Amendment 10? Thank you. Against? Restraint? 78 for six abstentions. Amendment 11.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28425	Article 23 is amended as follows:
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28426	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. Who's for the amendment? Thank you. Against? Restraint? 80 for four abstentions. Amendment 12.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28427	Article 24 is amended as follows:
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28428	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on Amendment 12. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Restraint? It's fixed 78 for six abstentions. Amendment 13.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28429	Article 25 is amended as follows:
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28430	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I'm putting the amendments to the vote. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Restraint? Amendment accepted 79 for, 5 abstentions. Amendment 14.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28431	Article 27 of the Law is amended.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28432	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on Amendment 14. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Restraint? 81 for, 3 abstentions. Amendment 15.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28433	Amendment 15, in addition to nomochniks, is added in this Article 29 and a new item allowing the Agency to work more easily in the preparatory phase. Namely, the Government is hereby authorised to appoint a temporary director of the Agency within 30 days of the date of entry into force of this Act, which will carry out all preparatory actions concerning the start of the Agency's work.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28434	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on Amendment 15. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? 78 for six abstentions. Amendment 16.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28435	Article 31 is amended as follows: The law.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28436	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on Amendment 16. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Restraint? 78 for six abstentions. Amendment 17.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28437	Article 33 of the Law is amended as follows:
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28438	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on Amendment 17. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Restraint? 78 for six abstentions. Amendment 18, last one.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28439	Article 36 of the Law is amended as follows:
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28440	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on Amendment 18. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Restraint? I find that the amendment has been adopted by 78 for and five abstentions. I am now voting on the Final Proposal for a Law on the Regulatory of Energy Activities. Please, let's get on with it. Please vote. Score. 78 votes for, 3 abstentions, no votes against. And with that majority, the Law on the Regulation of Energy Activities in the text was passed, as proposed by the Government together with the amendments adopted. The next item is - Final draft law supplementing the Fire Department Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 199. The proposer of the law is the Government. When establishing the agenda, we accepted the emergency procedure. The emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security, Finance and the State Budget and the Committee on Law. You received the reports at the session. I would like the Secretary of State of the Ministry of the Interior, Mr. Ivica Buconjic, to further explain the proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28442	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. This proposed supplement of the Fire Department creates the basis for further funding of decentralised fire functions by the State towards local self-government units. By 31 December of this year, Article 58 shall apply. A law on fire that came into force in 2000 when units of local self-government took over funding for public fire departments. This Article 58 also provided for the dynamics of the acquisition of full financing of public fire departments, thus providing that in 2002 the founders' cities would assume funding of 25%, 2003. 50%, 2004. 75% and from 1.1 next year 100%. Since practice has shown that the fiscal and financial capacities of the founders of public fire departments are not sufficient for regular financing, last year the government passed last year an amendment to the Income Tax Act in September, where 1% of the income tax is left to local self-government units to finance these decentralised functions. However, these funds were not sufficient either. So there was to be a basis for further financing of public professional fire departments and next year at the level of funds allocated this year. This is exactly what this article in the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Fire Department provides. It continues to oblige the government to finance public professional fire departments in the following year at the level of funds this year. By also taking over the obligation to adopt a minimum financial standard for the implementation of these decentralised fire departments, which would definitely resolve the problem of financing fire departments, and yet in accordance with the Law on the Protection and Rescue and Action of the new Protection and Rescue Authority. So, once again just briefly, this Law creates the assumption that the Government of the State Budget continues to finance the action of professional public fire departments at the level of funds that were this year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28443	Thank you. The committee's reporters? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. The club of representatives of LIBRA, the respected representative of Željko Pavlic. He's gone, the club's losing its word. SDP club, the respected representative of Zvonimir Mršić. He's gone, the club's losing its word. Club of HSS, respected representative Josip Vresk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28444	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State. It is true that Article 58 of the existing law ceases to apply as of 1.1, and it is true that local self-government will no longer benefit from the state budget from financing public fire departments the 25% it has received this year and it is true that it was necessary to intervene there. However, I must say the other thing, that we expected, given the statements, that a whole Fire Department appeared before the Parliament, and given the fact that we recently passed the Law on Protection and Rescue, and even the existing Fire Department when we intervened this amendment will not be compatible with the Law on Protection and Rescue, and then I said so and now I repeat it very, very important. My colleague Walter Drandić and I also made a proposal to amend this law to the Croatian Parliament 20 days ago, and I am really sorry that both legislative proposals did not discuss at the same time, and I think that if such practice existed in several previous sessions it would be good for Mr. President to continue with such practice. What this amendment allows is, in fact, allowing the Government to use sublegal regulations, which will obviously be valid for a year under Article 58a, athoc to solve the problem of public fire departments, or their funding that is evident. That problem exists, but we don't think it's a good way to do it. Look, you in the government, a good government must have certain legislative activity and such power to deal with certain issues by regulations, but I don't think there was any need here and that we could have made it possible to amend the law to know the standards, to know, in the end, how much the state budget will be financed by public fire departments, and here it is seen that the government will actually do so on the basis of sublaws probably in a regulation that will be worth a year. There's an unfortunate term for "help planning." It's not help, it's co-financing from the state budget of an extremely important activity, I think that's what you should call it. The second in Article 58 was to at least indicate what the government would do. So it should be written that regulations will regulate this area and the work adopted by the Government is called a regulation. And secondly, I don't think it's clear what they're going to finance, so I'm going to tell you, when we wrote our colleague Drandic and I proposed to amend Article 43, because with what I've just said, this new article is going to be in line with the current Article 43 of the current law, and then when we wrote the law exactly and stated what should be financed, or in what state should be co-financed by local self-government units, and these are primarily salaries and other expenditures, contributions to salaries and expenses for professional firefighters, office material, services and other unremarked expenditures, it's not called that because we wanted to do so, but the budget item is so, so we thought first of the insurance premiums, which is very, very, very important for the professional fire department. Of course, the HSS Club considers it necessary to pass the law, but we find this text inappropriate because it was above all necessary to go to full law, which was promised. Of course this was supposed to be an intervention, and I think it would be good, very good that both texts were discussed at the same time. I warn the Government that there will be an existing Article 58 if, of course, the Croatian Parliament adopts this regulation in full compliance with Article 43 of the existing law. There's only that much. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28445	Thank you. HNS club PGS, respected representative of Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28446	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. We expected this law at the end of the year to have to appear in a procedure of this kind or similar, and because it has not listened to warnings since the beginning of this year that the issue of fire financing has not been well resolved, nor has the government itself proposed a correction in the first reading of the budget. Since the warning in the assembly but also through the parliamentary questions did not listen, it was obviously necessary for several fire tanks and vehicles to come to Mark’s square and to understand the seriousness of the problems that could arise from the 1.1 next year. Let me just remind myself of two sentences of the introductory, or reasoning of this law, in which I quote: "In view of the notorial fact of insufficient economic development and scarce financial resources in the budgets, most of the units of local self-government, the legislator, Article 58 of the Law quoted above, has extended the method of financing fire. And second sentence, a large part of the local self-government units remains objectively unable to provide sufficient financial resources for the normal functioning of the fire department. This assessment of the situation was also known at the beginning of the year, it is also known now, it will be so in the following year, and this solution offered by this law only lasts a year, we have no new laws on the financing of local and regional self-government. So we can repeat this score throughout next year. I also remind you that according to the existing laws of the municipality, cities and counties from their budgets must be set aside between 1 and 5% of tax revenues for years. And by my calculation, when all these assets are summed up all over the country, the value of that is about 200 million kuna. 1% of the Decentralised Functions Alignment Fund is given to municipalities or cities that have established a professional fire department to finance these activities. In the budget we have one item of 100 million kuna for the purchase of new fire trucks and techniques and this law means somewhere around 330 million kunas to protect against fires. I mentioned this information because I would remind you that the money that's being allocated, in total, isn't small, but that every time we talk to all the participants in that chain, every one and every one justifiably claims that there's not enough money. At the beginning of the year, there was a parliamentary issue, and recently the Law on the Implementation of the State Budget, which states that the value added tax in 2005 for the purchase of equipment will return to the burden of value added tax to public fire departments, voluntary fire companies and fire departments. So this is for 2005. The same provision in the Budget Implementation Act exists for 2004 and existed for 2003. When I asked Minister Shuker if the VAT would return to the fire department last year, he told me no, because I did not sign such a legal provision. And indeed this morning I checked in several professional fire departments no one got a kuna of returned VAT even though for three years this provision in the Budget Implementation Act we have. So now I ask the question why, until now, fire departments, whether professional or voluntary and fire-fighting communities, we have not returned VAT paid for the purchase of equipment, vehicles and techniques as if that money could not be used for the renewal of the technique or for the financing of regular activities. We solve the problem in an intervening way, and the existing laws we have, we don't respect, and we don't give away what the law belongs to them. Furthermore, Croatia today has a thousand 788 voluntary fire companies with 58 thousand 800 members. We have 56 public fire departments with 2144 firefighters and employees in total and 55 fire departments with 1054 members, or it's a total of 61 thousand 998 people who are protected from fire or extinguishing. What else does this Law bring with it? Brings punishment for rationality. All those municipalities, cities and counties that have organized fire protection through voluntary fire departments from this Act will have nothing, will not get any grant, and those who went exclusively to professional fire departments or units that hired people, they will only have the right to participate in the distribution of these funds. Those who saved next year won't get any kunas or very little, I say nothing. And those who are always handling the fact that the state will somehow have to pay for it, they will also have this bill next year. This is a good message to all those who act rationally, not to be like that anymore, to spend as much as possible, because then they'll always get more. This is a message that you don't need to save tax money, because you're going to be rewarded for being more wasteful. We must therefore deploy the fire-fighting funds that we have on any basis in the municipality, city, county and state to voluntary fire-fighting societies, public fire-fighting units, county fire-fighting communities, Croatia's fire-fighting community, which is often organised during the fire-fighting season by fire-fighting competitions, Olympics and other things and employs firefighters and technicians instead of fire-fighting sites in other parts. In addition, municipalities have to bring in fire protection plans. It is reasoned that many have not yet done so. I mention these plans in the context of the fact that the existing legislation does not allow, for example, a small county which, with 10 times less resources, could have a county plan to protect from fires, not every municipality individually, which could have a county public fire unit, not by municipalities and cities, and where they would have the same or better effect of protection with less resources, because the law says it is local rather than regional self-government. We prohibit rationality, we force municipalities to discuss tenders for plans of protection against fires made by several companies in Croatia, which stem from these plans, and they often forget to change the name of the municipality for which the plan has been adopted, so in one plan you have three, four municipalities to which it applies and all of this needs to be paid out of the budget to satisfy the form. And then we ask them, why don't they have enough money for the fire department? This bill is a fire-fighting measure, which will be worth a year, which will not significantly affect improving fire protection, will not contribute more significantly to making their funding safer, and will not contribute to making municipalities, cities and counties more capable in fiscal terms to finance fire-fighting units. We'll meet again with the same theme in a month, two, three or six, to realize that there was no movement, that we had to intervene by fire. And I wouldn't want that to happen, but it can happen to us that this season because of a large or larger number of fires or a severe condition in the fire departments, we find that we haven't done enough again to be prepared for it. I want to believe that someone will finally sit with those who are dealing with this professionally and change existing legal provisions and in the Fire Department Act and the Law on the financing of local self-government and instead of dispersing thousands of giro accounts these assets that are so important we finally determine whether we will have protection from fire professionally, mixed or voluntary fire companies. Until this happens, and until we finally agree, I expect the finance minister to return the value added tax to all fire departments and communities for the past year at least during this month, and for this year at least by March of next year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28447	Thank you. The IDS Club is a respected representative of Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28448	Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor, Secretary of State, Your Honor, Mr. Representatives. Here we are in front of the addition of this Fire Department Act, or what we used to call it back in that ex-consumption back in '99, Gregor's Law. In 1999, former Prime Minister Franjo Greguric suggested that fire departments return from the interior ministry to local self-government. Accordingly, the allocation of funds to finance firefighting from the state budget should also be suspended with 1.1. 2005. So, in 2004, the State of Fire Department singled out 25% of their needs, one year before 2003. 50%, 2002. 75%, before that in full, and since 2005. 100% of the load should now be transferred to local self-government. Why did Mr. Greguric propose such a law? Well, one of the reasons was the disastrous material position of the interior ministry, so it was thought that if local self-government was now loaded, it would be clear to the police. Of course, in that material sense. So there wouldn't be any confusion. The IDS Club as a declared regionalist is absolutely to be managed by local self-government by fire. That this is a better solution than when it's managed by the state, I dare say that it's confirmed by the Istrian opportunities which, in the equipment of the organization, suddenly bounced after 2000. Finally, my Buzakhans know very well how the fire departments were in that city until 2000, and how they are today. I claim that they can be a role model for everyone in Croatia, I claim that their standard of equipment is etc. European, no matter what it may sound like, but that's actually the case. I'm clearly not talking about wages here, I'm talking about their equipment and the conditions in which they work. So I'm absolutely on fire at local level. This Greguric law I always experience as the beginning of decentralisation in the Republic of Croatia. However, decentralisation of the Republic of Croatia cannot be revived if we leave or transfer liabilities from the state to local self-government, not money. And with this law, gentlemen, that's exactly the case. There's an obligation coming down, and not a small one, but local self-government doesn't bring down money, and finally, when I mentioned the city of Buzet to say that the city's administration numbers 21 employees headed by the mayor and the fire department numbers 19 employees. If the 100 per cent firepower burden now takes over the city of Buzet and so will or may be elsewhere then it is to assume that many programs in these cities will come into question. In the first place, fire departments may be at risk of further equipment. So the state cannot deprive itself of its obligations by transferring them to local self-government without continuing financial decentralisation. I argue, I believe, that Croatia had its fastest development at a time when it was most decentralised in the period from 74 to 90, then our congregations elected even judges, perhaps it was not good because of the independence of these institutions but it was better than what it was doing after Pasalic's commission. At the time, they took care of the cataster, the police, the finances, the inspectorates, and today, for example, the mayor or mayor can't even influence the behaviour of the matriarch because he's a civil servant. This practice must be changed but its original resources should be clearly left to local self-government. And finally, let the state keep its military, diplomacy, monetary policy, I don't know if it's dealing with pension policy, keep part of the police, capital investment, determine fiscal policy and leave everything else to local self-government. But to get back to the fire department. If there wasn't this law that's in front of us today, if the government hadn't secured 237 million kunas in the next year, the situation on the ground would have been extremely difficult. Right, I'm aware of the fact that there is duality between professional firefighters on the one hand and voluntary firefighters. First, so these professionals are more inclined to the state, perhaps in those areas where wages in local self-government are above averages compared to state wages such as perhaps in Zagreb, Istria, Rijeka, and they are prone to local self-government while voluntary fire departments tend to local self-government because these structures are more sensitive to fire and their equipment than they are central authorities. So, the IDS is for this Gregoric law, the IDS is for decentralisation of the fire department, but I want to say once again it must be in action and decentralisation of financial resources. So without these 237 million kunas from the state budget, many units of local self-government will not say that they would go bankrupt, but they would find themselves in an extremely difficult situation. Therefore, the adoption of this law should in some way be an incentive to speak in Croatia and to bring about a decentralisation tomorrow. If Croatia wants faster rates of development sooner or later, we will have to agree to that. I agree that this country needs a lot of things, above all, more jobs, bigger pensions, better salaries, better hospitals, more retirement homes, etc. but Croatia also needs radical decentralisation because without it there will be no development. Clearly, those areas affected by the war may look at political decentralisation and regionalisation differently than Istria or the Primorje-Gorski County, probably looking at it differently, as well as Zagreb where the comprehensive concentration of budgetary and non-profits, etc. the funds of all major state-owned companies but indeed speaks only the city of Zagreb and the County of Istria at this time. They have a gross social product above the republican average. All other Croatian sites below are the republican average of the modest $6000 per capita. It's an extremely unspective situation I'd almost dare say tragic. The policy of centralization leads to the country's material poverty. Maybe she had logic during the war, probably but not anymore today. For this reason, at least the IDS Club supports everything that leads to decentralisation and thus clearly and one decentralised "fire system" but we also ask the representatives of the Ministry of the Interior, the Government that, when it lowers its obligations, let it lower the money. Perhaps the most drastic example of this centralization is health care. I will mention only the case of general hospitals, for them are the counties and the funds remain in Zagreb and it simply cannot function that the counties that have fewer budgets than the general hospitals are eligible for their business, for example the County of Istria has 100 employees, in the General Hospital a thousand and 100 and that you are now responsible for the structure that someone has imposed on you. So, for the end, let's open a debate on decentralisation. All agreed by the clubs before IDS that the most needed at this point in time was to enable the fire department to return VAT to its equipment. This should be done as soon as possible and in some way may force insurance companies to start respecting legal norms when damage insurance is or better said when certain funds for firepower are to be invested. And for the end, for the third time. If we don't pass this law and this is the issue of 237 million kunas, many local environments will find themselves in an extremely difficult situation so that we here in this House are simply put before the final act.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28449	Thank you. The Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community is a respected representative, Ivan Jarnjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28450	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues! The Croatian Democratic Community Club will support the adoption of this law for the reasons why Article 58. The fire law ceases to apply from 31.12.2004 and this means that the funds of that 25% that were in 2004... stopped winning and would really question the functioning of firefighting in the Republic of Croatia. [[You can't hear the speaker.]] But today, through this law, which is very short, very summed, we have heard very clearly from the 70 ’ s that it was much better and that much more could be done. However, we are in our own country today, in our home, and we are talking about our problems that need to be addressed. Whether the HDZ had already passed a new law in the past year, not a year, and he proposed a lot of laws, it is difficult to say whether they could arrive or not, but I agree with those who have said here that the new Fire Department Act should be passed, that systematic fire work should be resolved in Croatia. It is true that the possibilities of local self-government are limited but the dimensioning of public fire departments are currently stemming from the assessment of certain local self-governments at risk from the point of view of fires as large as they will be, how much they will cost, how much they will burden local administration and self-government and whether local administration and self-government will then be able to finance it. There were speeches here and about why not round these bases so it was said that it could be like some smaller county to be county and we have a Law on Protection and Rescue which is just based on municipalities, on smaller local units and a, units of public, especially professional fire departments they are the backbone of the implementation for the time being of this Law on Protection and Rescue. It is also the reason that we must take care of compatibility from the Law on Protection and Rescue and the Fire Department. The government is making this decision on the so-called the minimum financial, minimum financial standards for the performance of fire-fighting duties which will mean, clearly, and that we remain at the same level of equipment and at the same level of fire-fighting opportunities this year as in the following year, as in this year, if something else will not be able to single out exactly local administration and self-government. I agree that Article 58a is just like this and that the provision is not predetermined to how many criteria by the criteria some predetermined to whom it should be given. For fire and fire protection, it should be prepared in such a way that where there is a need, it should be given. The danger of fire is not equal throughout Croatia but is different, this diversity should be clearly respected and this diversity should then be financed. I repeat once again, the Croatian Democratic Community will support the adoption of this Act and certainly requires that it come out in the most recent time with a concrete proposal of the Fire Department that will comply with the Law on Protection and Rescue but also that it will solve not only public fire departments but also voluntary fire companies, because it is that public fire departments are the impact of the operational power of fire in Croatia, but without the help of voluntary fire companies, few could then be done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28451	Thank you very much. HSP club, respected representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28452	Dear Mr. President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The HSP Club also made clear on the occasion of the adoption of the Protection and Rescue Act that this Law is taking a step towards establishing an effective system of protection and rescue but also that we expected it to be logical to adopt a new Fire Protection Act and a new Civil Protection Act, because that is the only way we will be able to get an effective system of protection and rescue that can respond to all the threats of Croatia when it comes to any elemental disasters such as the fire itself. The HSP Club welcomes the amendment of Article 58 of this Act because, unfortunately, this is the only solution for municipalities and cities to receive the same amount from the state budget for the purpose of financing public fire. But it is a sad fact that Croatia as a country with a long tradition of fire and we know for ourselves that many fire companies have long celebrated over 100 years and today the glory has allowed us to have fire at this time in this state. What is the situation and the duality that arises here, the same must be addressed by the Ministry and the State regarding professional fire and voluntary fire, find the appropriate measure and can be addressed through a state assessment of the threat to fire protection and then finance that part of the state budget if we choose to say that the Fire Department will still fund part of the state budget and part of the budget of cities and municipalities. Because we know ourselves if we're making a commitment, then we have to give him rights. That's why we don't look like the IDS Club. That's all they care about is decentralisation. We are not interested in this case decentralisation, but we are interested in having effective fire at all levels of municipalities and cities. Therefore, we expect the Ministry of Interior and the State Administration for Protection and Rescue to come to Parliament as soon as possible to first read and the Fire Department and the Civil Protection Act, because that is the only way we can contribute and that the fire department is equipped and that in any situation it can respond to all the tasks. The other problem here is the same thing that we have to say that municipalities and cities have an obligation, we know that the public fire department is theirs but I must warn that many municipalities and cities have not concluded a collective agreement. For example, the case of the town of Bjelovar where no collective agreement between the city and professional fire departments has been concluded to this day. Therefore, there should also be additional shifts in order to take over all municipalities and cities when they have taken over that obligation then they must also conclude collective agreements as it is concluded at the state level, so must these border collective agreements. Therefore, even in the end, in order not to be longer in this part of the HSP Club, it will support this by asking the Secretary of State for guarantees that municipalities and cities will indeed receive the amount of funds they have received for 2004 as well. And we expect the government to appear in a hurry this year with these two essential laws to round up and get one effective system and raise levels and equipment and training so that we are not afraid of the summer season or anything else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28453	Thank you. We're going to an individual debate. Dear Representative Jagoda Martic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28454	Your Honor, Mr. President, Secretary of State. The Fire Department has been decentralised so that the fire protection obligation is restored from state level to local self-government. By doing so, units of local self-government have been given the right and obligations to establish as well as to finance the fire department. Article 58 of the Fire Department lays down a transitional provision by which the financing of the regular activity of public fire departments is ensured from the state budget by gradually taking over the financing obligations of local self-government units and, in fact, from 1. 1. In 2005, the obligation to finance became an exclusive obligation for cities and municipalities. However, the fact is that the majority of units of local self-government due to insufficient economic development and scarce financial resources have budgets from which they are simply unable to finance all the obligations undertaken by the decentralisation process, thus not being able to finance fire protection either. They are not able to play out sufficient financial resources for the normal financing of fire departments whose founders are. According to available data, only five cities of the founders of public fire departments of 58 of them can fulfil the obligation to finance fire protection. Furthermore, the recently adopted Income Tax Act raises an untaxable part of the base, which ultimately means less income from local self-government units to finance public needs in its field and so on by fire. And all of this further reduces their modest opportunities to allocate the necessary funds anyway. Obviously aware of the problem that has existed so far, or which so far exists in the financing and functioning of fire protection, which since 1.1.2005 and further worsened, the Government has tried to bridge the proposal for a law supplementing the Fire Department that has been tried before us by the above problems. However, these additions only propose setting out the government's obligations and powers to make a decision on a minimum financial standard to carry out the activities of public fire departments which will be the basis for planning aid from the state budget. I believe that this is a temporary solution that will ultimately not solve the existing problems completely. The amendments do not provide that public fire departments will be financed in part from the State budget and thus prevent the application of a collective contract for civil servants and subsistence persons based on Article 110 from being applied to professional firefighters. The funds are planned at the level of 2004 and we know that there are no commitments under the collective agreement towards public fire departments in 2004. I would warn of another problem and the illogicalness that occurs in practice and that exists, which some predecessors also spoke of. The Law on Local and Regional Regional Self-Government was adopted in which the provisions of Article 19 state that fire protection is in the works of units of local self-government. So she's decentralised from state to local level. In addition, the provisions of Article 134 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia speaks of it. However, there is no regulation on how fire protection will be carried out. Whether through professional or voluntary fire, but it is evident that the obligation has all the municipalities and cities. In view of the fact that most municipalities and cities were unable to fully finance fire protection, a solution was found by adopting amendments and additions to the Law on the financing of local and regional self-government units by which the state would grant part of the income tax to cities and municipalities established by public fire departments. And since 2002, 2%, 2003. 4%, 2004. 6% and 8%, respectively. These changes only partially resolved the problem of fire financing because the concession of part of the income tax applied only to units of local self-government that were founders of public fire departments. In a similar way, by applying part of the income tax, which has been reduced to 1%, the problem has been partially solved by the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the financing of units of local and regional self-government. This solution that is still in effect is very bad for two reasons. The reduction in income tax does not apply to all units of local self-government but only to cities and municipalities that are founders of public fire departments, and secondly in most of these cities 1% of income tax is not nearly enough to finance the regular activity of public fire departments. The fact that the separation of part of income tax applies only to units of local self-government which are founders of public fire departments is not respected by the provisions of Article 134. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and the provisions of Article 19 The law on local and regional, regional self-government under which units of local self-government carry out matters of local importance among other things and fire protection in their own self-government. So thus do we come to some illogicalness. For example, two years ago, we are aware that the fires on our coast were at the time, the Government of the Republic of Croatia approved 237 million kunas for public fire departments based on the fact that this aid is due to major fires in Hvar, Brac and Biševo. Unfortunately, these islands did not receive a single kuna because they do not have public fire departments, but rather carry out fire protection through voluntary fire companies. Also especially during the season or at a time when fires were frequented on the coast often stand out as an example of good organisation of fire protection in public communications, an example of the island of Makarska and Rab is pointed out. These areas for decentralised fire protection functions will not receive any kuna, as they are also mentioned, as well as those islands do not have public fire departments but exclusively voluntary fire companies. Here's an example, for example, of the voluntary fire company of the town of Makarska during 2003, there were 227 fire interventions. In 2004 to date, 132 fire interventions. In 2003, of 227 fire interventions, 78 of them were in the area of the city, in the area of neighbouring 102 municipalities and in the area of the county and the whole of Dalmatia from Sibenik to Dubrovnik 47 times. So where public fire companies don't exist, then it's the DVDs that actually have to react promptly and have to act as public fire departments. For all reasons, I believe that for decentralised fire protection functions the same as for other decentralised functions means education, health care, social care should be paid part of the income tax to all units of local self-government because they have constitutional and legal obligations against fire protection. So regardless of whether it's DVDs or public fire departments, and because of that, I join all those who have said that this law that is before us is really just one fire measure to overcome this problem that will arise from 1.1, but it's obviously time mature to access a thorough complete solution. It means the adoption of a law that would unite and reconcile everything we talked about. So professionalism, volunteering, and so on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28455	Thank you. Dear Representative Zgrebec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28456	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Namely, I was motivated by two problems that often occur in, when we have such or similar amendments to the law. We have established a practice of having, when we arrive at a time-constraint, when a government regulation ceases to operate or the time-limit of application of a certain law expires, then we go with such interventions into the law, and another motive is also the practice of having certain decentralised functions, but they are not accompanied by adequate financial support. So this is increasingly happening regardless of which segment of activity or function was involved. In 1999, when this new Fire Department Act was passed, they moved from the MUP to the level of local self-government, cities and municipalities. Knowing what our territorial structure was, we could immediately assess what problems local self-government would be in. Because we have municipalities from 800 to several thousand inhabitants. It's similar with cities. They have all the same powers, the same way of funding. So in many of the functions that we bring down to local self-government, we actually know in advance that there will be major problems in their realization. And how we are, how this law is regulated then, the imagined way of actually funding. So Article 8 said that public fire departments established by decision the headship of the municipality, city or city of Zagreb. So regional self-government is shut down here. Article 3 of the 43rd said how funding will be completed, ranging from one to 5%, given the amount of budget revenues the units of local self-government have. In accordance with Article 58 of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council, the European Parliament and of the Council are to be appointed by the European Parliament and of the Council within the meaning of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 December 2013 on the financial Or this activity, and this way of financing or subfinance, so to speak, expires from the state budget at the end of 2004. And of course now we've found ourselves in big trouble. I'll say that on one example. In fact, the activity of the fire department can be considered of particular interest, because the damages from the fire are huge they can never be compensated in a way that they can be solved by insurance. Especially not when it comes to large-fired forests of long-term pestilences and so on. We also have a long tradition of watering for over 100 years, especially so expressed here in the northern or continental part of Croatia. And when I said that this is the way the fire departments are going to say it on one example, I'm going to mention it on an example from the Medjugorje County. There are no settlements in the Međimurje County that do not have a voluntary fire company. And several companies have more than 100 years of tradition of voluntary industrial fire companies and most of them have kept such units to date. The entry into force of this law from the MUPA singled out the then professional fire department, its founder, according to the logic of this law, is the town of Čakovec. What could have happened now could have happened because it had now, since it had previously acted in the area of the entire county, by the logic of the law should be organised and set up for the area only of the town of Čakovca. But that wouldn't really be right. She's working in the entire county today. And when they need some major interventions that cannot be carried out by voluntary fire companies, that unit is included. However, the town of Čakovec would have to finance the entire fire department. It's been tried with certain agreements with the municipalities you know how hard this is going. Each municipality has its own problems financially, it cannot satisfy some other functions with financial resources and it really works very badly. If we also look at a way of partially covering some costs through Article 45a. The public expenditure law in the area of certain public services, so where the town of Čakovec receives one percent of the increased share in income tax, it would be logical to get that for local self-government units, which operate in the area where public fire departments operate. But it's not because it's not even possible under this law. So there are a number of problems that occur in this area of fire financing, probably in some other areas. We actually now have different criteria to co-finance from the budget of the public fire department and not co-finance voluntary fire companies that actually, in fact, do interventions, they're the first at the scene of the fire. They're usually the first in the scene of a fire because they're closest to such places. And it certainly should be seen there in some way how to finance voluntary fire companies, because they are fully funded by local self-government units. It should be said that it is also a tradition especially in our neighborhoods, especially in my area where there is not a single municipality that would not be financed in a good part by voluntary fire companies. And not to spread this topic is the problem ahead of us is being solved this way right now. But in order for him to be permanently resolved, it must surely be passed or amended by the law of fire. The financial resources of units of local regional self-government should also be analysed by means of the powers and functions they perform today. And see how to provide sufficient resources for all those functions that they should provide. Local self-government units, of course, and regional ones, are dominating more and more businesses without adequate financial support, and the state budget is being monitored by less and less local and regional projects. This is what we saw when we adopted the 2005 budget. And any intervention in income tax in such a way as to increase the relief, or reduce the share, of this loss in the budget does not actually follow the increased share of local and regional self-government, in that tax. Therefore, none of us can say that it will be against this law, but surely it is necessary to do far more so that at the end of 2005, we do not face the same problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28457	Thank you. The following came to the debate, with distinguished representative Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28458	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. To talk about the very proposal for a law supplementing the law on firepower, I don't think it's necessary. But what we need to talk about is two facts. Which is one of them. For 5 years, we have been implementing the basic law and after 5 years we find that we have neither the administration nor the unit of local self-government able to implement a change of fire law. And that's what kind of discourages us, or has to warn us of significant changes in our work. We'd have to change the system of work. What's missing from these laws. Let us establish a transitional period in the transitional period on territorial structure problems, nor on financing problems. If we as the Croatian Parliament do not seriously talk about territorial structure or financing problems, then those who are obliged to implement the law are, in fact, acting passively and we have a solution from year to year to change only the provision to maintain the existing state. We thus show how inefficient we are as a state, and the situation is not harmless. The damage to the fire is huge, except for the property damage is significant, and I would say, problems and life and health security of our citizens. And that is why perhaps when we are discussing this proposal today we should propose a conclusion on behalf of the Croatian Parliament and oblige the Government to solve the problem of related fire and territorial structure in the next year in the first quarter of next year and solve the problem of the financier. It is evident what we could see that the idea to transfer to local self-government units the obligation to finance professional units does not go so easily and what we often mention, in legal solutions we give to local self-government units, but let us also give the right and obligation to the county. According to this, regional self-government units. However, a stronger commitment to regional self-government units at the moment when we see that for 5 years we have failed to secure fire protection in most local self-government units. Therefore, the weaknesses of our structure, where we have too much of a tight, economically weak unit of local self-government, but we have big cities, let's give that opportunity to participate in the fire department, when it comes to the professional unit, both. Because at that point, we may have a better response to local self-government units in the care of voluntary fire companies. The particular danger that we need to derail in these five years is increasing savings in companies and we have the present reduction of industrial fire protection units, which means increasing the risk of people's lives and health, as well as property that is threatened with this kind of organization. We don't have enough men, we don't have enough resources, especially new means of fire protection. And of course we come to that other problem. And what other problem is that? Funding. There's not a few days we've finished talking about a new mini tax reform. Mini tax reform, and for five years, we know we haven't solved the fire protection funding. We know we haven't solved it. And it's obvious that even the former coalition government hasn't solved the problem, although 99th is indicated, but here's another budget and the new government, we don't have a solution to the financing of firepower. We have no solution to seriously analyse what we have done in the last ten years, or if we are to say more precisely since 93 we have transferred and decentralised to local self-government and regional self-government units, and have transferred enough funds. Can we get a quality analysis in that? Therefore, I expected in this mini tax reform that we would get this analysis and try to determine what these are new relations between the central government, regional and local and to end the story, and thus also the problem of financing the fire department. Therefore, we did not receive proposals to give more funding to regional and local self-government, and in this way the stories on fire financing were completed, not to mention some other delegated functions in that part of the transfer, when we talk about education and health care. And I think that in the next few months the government should make that analysis very clear, it should indicate very clearly what these are new relations in redistribution, whether income tax or some other tax and in some way provide resources for units of local and regional self-government, and therefore remove this... Without that kind of analysis, we'll always go back to missing funds. [[You don't understand.]] And so, in order for me to finish this transitional period in Parliament once, this ineffectiveness of the administration that is apparently present, from the central to the lowest level, I think with these analyses, we could finally put an end to open issues, send messages to units and regional and local self-government. Your responsibility to the security of the citizens is your responsibility to the security of the property, it is your responsibility to organise yourself, how you will proceed in intervention cases and say that we have ensured the redistribution of the funds. With such answers, we could demand greater responsibility. The Ministry of Internal Affairs co-ordinated, which is in fact and very responsible, could also try to see whether the counties organised in accordance with their protection plans as provided for in the law, and then they could seek both responsibility and express responsibility for those who are also responsible for quality fire protection. Without me, I would say these certain changes to the Fire Department, where we must seek greater responsibility for regional self-government and without redistribution and accurate analysis that the Ministry of Finance should give us, I believe that in a year we will be with the same law. And that means showing how we can be inefficient and six years old.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28459	Thank you. The word has an esteemed representative, Ivan Vukic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28460	Dear Mr. Vice-President, colleagues and colleagues, the existing Fire Department Act, which was adopted in 99 years, which began to apply from 1.1.2000 years of age until 31.12. of this year and under Article 58 of the existing Law, ceases financing public fire forces by the State based on the Law 1% of Income and the rest of the decentralised funds from the Harmonisation Fund. Therefore, the adoption of this Law is necessary, because public fire departments, unless we pass this Law, would remain in good condition without their resources. We here have to be honest and that in the establishment of public fire departments, it seems to me in 96 that those of us who were in position, all of us wanted to have our municipalities, that our cities had a public fire force, that in some way we took care of 10, 15, 20 guys who were mobilized from the Croatian Army, and at the expense of the state. In 2000, the Act of 2000, which began to apply, is another good example of the country's ungood decentralisation, so decentralisation of the obligations of local self-government units, and failure to monitor the fiscal policy of the local self-government unit, where it is evident that local self-government units are unable to finance a public fire department, mainly not local self-government units that have voluntary fire companies in their field. I know of my county, specifically the city of Ogulin, we have five voluntary fire companies, we have a unit of public fire department and only for the financing of a public fire department, 21 employees need 3 and a half to 4 million kuna, which is 25% of the budget. Therefore, other programmes, such as Reako and counterpart Cain, would come into question and would certainly be questionable because of the financing of a public fire department, their adoption or their production. So, we certainly support the adoption of this article in 58. It is also necessary to be honest and to say that certain units of local self-urpage, and the law has defined that local self-government units in their area are obliged to ensure fire protection, whether this is a public fire department or a voluntary fire company, do not have any voluntary fire departments or public fire departments, and is then brought into a position that must intervene, which is also a morally voluntary fire company from local self-government units that has a public fire department or a voluntary fire company, but however, paying what the law defines the obligation of those units of local self-government is questionable and it is not largely carried out. I also believe that it should be defined that units of local self-government which are not regulated by law ensure fire protection in their territory should also be co-financed by voluntary fire departments or public fire departments and when they do not intervene, because our desire is not to intervene, but when they do not intervene, so when they are in the reserves, when they are trained and then they cost and then they have to have a salary and they need to be provided with material resources. Of course, 1% of income income and funds from the Fund for Harmonisation in this part are temporarily resolved by the financing of units of public fire departments and would agree with part of the parliamentary representatives that have presented in their exposure that we are definitely up to the adoption of a complete Fire Department Act which will define this problem that I have presented in advance. Here from the presentation of fellow MPs, there was a problem with the return of VAT, so here I am free if I can afford to say so, so let's not even pay for some state to free up on the purchase of vehicles and fire extinguishers, and then there won't be a problem with the return. We now have to give about 800,000 kunas of VAT in the city of Ogulin for the purchase of a special vehicle through a fire department where both state and county are participating, and therefore 800 thousand kuna would certainly be used to purchase the other equipment needed for the fire department either the voluntary or the public fire department. I think it is necessary to say that in the case of registration of fire trucks and special fire trucks, a fee is paid for the use of tolls as well as any other special vehicle, and that is to say a factor of three to these personal vehicles and that in that part of the country should certainly help the fire department to ensure that the registration of fire trucks does not pay the toll at that amount, as I said, factor three as special vehicles that drive day and night on roads, and we know how long the fire vehicle goes out on the road and in which part it can spend the road. So I'm in favour of passing this law, and in the adoption of one law, the entire Fire Department Act, we're certainly going to have to conduct a broad debate and hopefully respect a part of my suggestions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28461	I would like to inform you that in accordance with Article 207(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure have expired time to apply for a 10-minute hearing. The word has a distinguished representative, Velimir Pleša.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28462	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Well, at first, it is quite clear that I, as a representative of the Croatian Democratic Community, will support such a proposal to amend and supplement the Fire Department for a simple reason, because it is clear to all of us that without the adoption of such a law, there would be a blockade of work in most cities, municipalities in our case and in the county when we talk about Međimurje, because there would be no funds for the normal functioning of fire in local self-government units. I am also convinced in this support of the Fire Department, i.e. its additions, that in the following year from the Ministry of the Interior where people who come from the areas who know what organised fire is primarily voluntary fire, and thus came out of this voluntary fire department not only by the basis of the provisions of the laws of certain state authorities professional fires. That is why I am convinced that because of my colleague, or Secretary of State Buconjic, who drags his roots out of Međimurje where I can freely say, referring here to Mrs. Zgrebec, that the best organized voluntary fire department has gone far and can be an example in those summer months with his troops down at sea where they see what and how this organization has contributed and how the Međimurians know how to put the fire out. However, what I want to say here is really interesting, today in individual discussions or even in the debate on behalf of the Croatian Peasant Party Club from Mr. Vrsek, and now just before and in the individual debate of Mr. Linic, we had the opportunity to hear that something was wrong, and this is not good, and I will just remind myself that they were actually members of the government who last year when the amendments and the amendments to the Fire Department were made on the basis of the three MPs' initiative at the time of the ruling coalition, refused to mention any mention that something was wrong, it was then said that during the three-and-a-half years, meaning since 1 January 2000, such a law had received several positive effects, and they said, first of all, that regarding a legal system of financing through which most units of local self-government provided minimum funds for the regular operation of fire-fighting equipment. Furthermore, the decentralisation of the fire department on local self-government units ensures the smooth development of fire-fighting organisations. Decentralisation generally receives positive results in most local self-government units only in the smaller part of the local self-government unit becomes a limiting factor in the functioning and development of the fire department, which primarily refers to units of local self-government in the war of the affected areas, as well as cities and municipalities with a small number of residents who have professional fire departments. What I'm saying is that we have different criteria depending on whether we're in a position to be on the property and to pass some laws or to be in opposition and to attack such laws. That's why it's not good in this case when we're talking about fire and no way to go with saying that it's supposed to change the way the local self-government units are, that we should do this, that we should do it. It was time, it was four full years for this particular case of the application of the Fire Department to happen, meaning, and nothing was done on this issue, even then the government and the proposals of their representatives who were in the ruling coalition, the legislative proposals regarding firefighting refused. The fire department would certainly be very pleased if all provisions of the law were consistently implemented, i.e. to create conditions for the supply of sufficient amounts of money for the purchase of expensive equipment. However, in this case, the state intervenes in one single way, it is to extend in this case another year of funding as planned and how it has been financed so far, but it is up to all of us to see when we adopt a new law, I hope for a real new law on fire and on civil protection to round up this protection and rescue system, to see how the laws and laws affect local self-government units in their budgets really make it a commitment to them and not only to give them the right and discretion to let some because some of the more important sports or cultures in its place do not give firemen, or give them less than give that sport or culture. In that sense, I think that the aim of this Law is that its adoption will be achieved... The basic purpose and objective, which is the normal operation of fire departments in local self-government units, is simply funding through the way provided for by this Act, Article 58a, and that this most important goal, to achieve a more efficient fire system remains on all of us at the moment when, hopefully, in the next year and very soon, we will have a new Fire Department that will fully address all the issues that have not been heard here today. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28463	Thank you. The word has an esteemed representative of the Judge-Thrakostane.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28464	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I will, of course, say by supporting this Law that I see it as only one short-term measure of ensuring additional security to professional fire departments and that, of course, I will expect colleagues to be resolved through the implementing regulations of the Protection and Rescue Act, and also through the improvement of the existing Fire Department and the professional and voluntary firefighters' problem and the well-being of local self-government, the population that lives there, as well as the firefighters themselves. And I'm not going to rephrase my colleagues 'cause I didn't, but I'm going to say that Podravni is nothing smaller, better firemen than Međimurians. So, with the good master's sake and under that phrase, "fire out, brother save" for centuries and something organized and all those tasks, i.e., the troubles they were on their way have been successfully done, and today, I repeat it again, and I have said it several times already, included in these others, so to speak, rescue activities such as car accidents, such as different other events of temporary modern technology. And perhaps very briefly, so many words have been said here, this short law of one article has been used, so I repeat, which additionally ensures the functioning and material receipts of firefighters that are of course different. And that's where we have to be realistic, so there's no unique solution, but every unit of local self-government depends on the condition of its fire department. So that possibility to separate 1% or 5 doesn't mean you have to 1 or you have to 5. It's left to everyone to see how much it takes, and I can tell that in our county, there are no problems of non-functioning and professional and DVDs. And that there is one reasonable measure in municipal budgets that is not of course enough for all needs, but it is estimated that fire is given the number of people involved, especially the young population. We must be aware that being a member of a fire company means spending time usefully to prevent the social behavior of youth. So our society gathers a series of young children, from young children to young people, and they spend that time, therefore, in care and rescue for their community. I would not be longer than I would say, therefore, that regardless of the higher expectations of the firemen who have been threatening to strike, I hope that it will not come to it, the letters in which much more resources should be provided, that they will function for some more time than all these four years, and that they will then agree to their resolution in different laws over the next year, and through of course equal resources in all units of local self-government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28465	Thank you. The word has a distinguished representative Ivanka Roksandić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28466	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. There's already so much that's really been said here about this activity. It is also too important, it is of interest to the Republic of Croatia, so it is no wonder. I'm going to say what my colleague Lesar said, this is really a fire strike, but right now, the only possible measure to allow the normal and regular functioning of the public fire departments. To keep that quality and quantity that is at this moment the only possible. The important thing is that this article is 58. The laws of the existing and amended, which also stipulates that the Government must decide on minimum financial standards for carrying out firefighting activities and that this normal financing must be ensured. The special problem, we have all seen here today, is the problem of voluntary fire departments that most often have difficulties in their financing, they are financed by small municipalities, small towns and cities. Voluntary fire is a tradition, as counterpart Zgrebec said in her discussion, especially in the northern continental part of Croatia. My colleague Pleša said that Podravci is good, a colleague of Trakoštanec, that Međimurjes are good, a colleague of Trakoštanec that Podravci is better, and I will say that we in Posavina have world champions and Europeans in the fire department, which means that Croatia is a really small country and that it has a very good volunteer fire and that it rests our professional fire department precisely on this voluntary basis. I will join all those who said they expected us to get a new Fire Department in 2005 because he would solve the really big problems that we saw from these discussions. I trust the ministry that the ministry will also pass this law, so we won't have to supplement the existing law next year. Here, I support certainly bringing this supplement.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28467	Thank you. We boasted, and... The word has a distinguished representative, Niko Rebić. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28468	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State. In fact, Article 43 of the Fire Department found that funds to finance the regular activities of public units of municipalities, cities and the City of Zagreb are in the light of the scarce financial resources that units of local self-government have in their budget, Article 58. The Fire Department Act has been extended to the current way of financing the regular activity of fire departments and their employees through State budget funds. Successively reducing the total amount of collateral at a rate of 25% per year, this means that public fire departments stop funding from the State budget as of 31 December 2004. Which would mean, so here we see that, if there were some numbers and amounts. That the state should co-finance these public fire departments with 237 million kuna. So 70% of the countries 30% of the local self-government unit and this would guarantee the security of citizens and their property in the coming period. This Bill proposal as well as the current Law only favours large cities that could in a certain way be able to obtain the funding and full take over of fire-fighting concerns, but still leaves a large number of small and medium-sized municipalities and their voluntary fire-fighting companies, so also in the coming period without support from the state budget. Neither Croatia is rich enough for all firefighters to be professionals, and yet it is not so poor that some of the funds would not receive from the state budget small and municipalities and cities and their voluntary fire companies, since we know the role and importance of voluntary fire companies in the island and Zagorje part of Dalmatia where in the summer months live daily with fires. I've often shut down as mayor with these societies, I know what all these people are facing, from lack of equipment to lack of people. Often because of numerous fires, they are left to themselves, because of priorities left without any organised professional support to cope with how they know and can testify almost always gave more than expected and that there were none of them you can imagine the safety of citizens and their property in the area. In view of this, I will propose an amendment which I will deliver to you, which is to be in Article 58a. Paragraph 1 below the word "team" is added: "and central voluntary fire companies". So I would like us not to wait for a new law, but also in this law to find ways in which we can co-finance, because if I can point out in public fire departments there are over 2 and a half thousand professionals, and in voluntary fire companies there are 250 professionals, and I think that, given that and that ratio, we should share funds from the state budget. I think all citizens would then have, in Croatia, therefore, more certainty that someone will care about their property, so to their safety. In fact, in its explanation, it is not prescribed anywhere how fire protection will be carried out, whether through professional or voluntary fire, but it is evident that all municipalities and cities have this obligation. So small and large, the law hasn't excluded us all should worry about it. Therefore, it does not say anywhere, or it is not specified that only local self-government units with a public fire department have the obligation to ensure the protection of their area of fire, but must do so by all municipalities and cities. We note this and I think it is very important that from 94 to 2000 professional fire departments of the Republic of Croatia had an area of activity and responsibility in the entire territory of each county, while according to the current provisions of the Fire Department Act, the representative body of the unit of local self-government was established and they have an area of action on the territory of the founders. Due to the limited scope of action, a number of public fire departments have recently proposed to neighbouring municipalities to carry out fire activities in their area of compensation. In view of the lack of financial resources or perhaps because of their desire to become as independent as possible, the municipalities generally refuse to enter into any relationship with the public fire department, which is why it prevents them from carrying out fire activities on their territory or in the area of those neighbouring municipalities. As a result of this unit of local self-government without a public fire department, fire protection must be organised either through voluntary fire or through contractual relations. Some may find it really difficult to understand that such important activities as fire protection can function on a voluntary basis. That it is thus demonstrated by cities on the list and by a multiple number of municipalities that have a fire department established through a voluntary fire company. Since this is a model that works very well in our neighbouring countries, it should be supported rather than placed in a discriminatory position. Generally looking at large and economically strong countries co-finance fire protection, and small cities and municipalities like now and in the past must do so on their own. In this way they were brought into a financial difficult position. On the basis of these examples, it is evident that the Final Proposal for a law supplementing the Fire Department should be extended in a way that includes central voluntary fire companies. As a rule, a voluntary fire company in a local self-government unit established by a fire protection plan, as well as the public fire departments carry out the fire work set out in Article 1 of the Law. The Fire Department Act. I think that we really shouldn't wait for a new law, but that, with intervention and in this bill, we need these central, voluntary fire companies to put us in the same position as the public fire departments. Believe that then where and where security of citizens and property would be in the entire area of Croatia equal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28469	Here you go. Replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28470	So I'd like to replicate my colleagues in a way that every unit of local self-government must bring an assessment of the threat to fire, or the notion of fire protection. And then we need to see what means and what powers it will satisfy, so what it has brought in its assessment. It can then entrust fire protection and a public fire unit located near it. As more local self-government units have been done in Međimurje, they can be founders of a public fire force. However, there is indeed a problem, or at least so far there has been a problem in the fact that income has been decentralised only by the founders, regardless of the fact that public fire forces had an action zone outside the units of local self-government that were its founders. Because if it all came down to the fact that units, if the public fire departments only operated in the area of the local self-government unit that was the founder, there would have been a lot more fires, or the fires would have been much later, much later shut down. And today, local self-government units, regardless of public fire departments, must deprive 5% of the original fire departments of their budgets, for fire work, from which some other things are done. However, there was plenty of time during this year to pass a new Fire Department Act and to define all things such as professional firemen's status as professional firefighters, such as volunteer firemen and such as the financing of firemen. And not with a fire measure like this seven days before New Year's, we're changing the Fire Department Act and we're solving something that should have been solved throughout the year.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28471	Replication response. It's Rebecca.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28472	Well, I would like to respond to the esteemed colleague Mršić, that he is in the Split-Dalmatia County area, so I have spoken precisely where they are set up, but in the area of the entire Split-Dalmatia County only two public fire departments are in Imotski and Split. And now I'm telling you that the whole area, meaning Trogir, Kaštela, Sinj, Solin, Omis, Makarska, Brač, Hvar, Vis, Solta, Vrlika, so all of these units of local self-government have an assessment of the threat to the area, but they have no public units and only these two will receive from the State budget support, so. And these means there's a hundred of them, and there might be 50 of them, and they won't be in the same position or in the same position. And I'm telling you, in the town of Vrlica, when you single out 5% for the fire department, it's 120,000 kuna. At best, you can buy branders, but you can't buy the necessary funds, and you can't buy the tanks without talking. Well, the tanks, we know how they were getting together. If you were with Racan, then they all got who they got. I wasn't so lucky. But I didn't get to go one step further, I didn't get one step from Valentiæ. So Vrlika was no priority at all, and I know many who got the gift of a tanker. Here's a present.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28473	Okay. I wanted to warn you, but you mentioned Valentiæ, and then unsettled. Replica, distinguished representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28474	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So I had no intention of reporting under this Law, I was encouraged by these discussions, especially by my colleagues, because in fact it was already debated about that Law, de facto because the Law that is before us is very clear, it really bridges this whole financing situation and it's good that we have it before us today. And what actually happened through this debate are relations between public units and voluntary fire companies and even a system of command within the fire department itself. That's what I was talking about when there was a topic on the agenda. But there's something I want to do again here. I agree with my colleague Mršić that units of local self-government can jointly finance a public unit, i.e. they can join those cities of municipalities that have public units and help in co-financing and thus open up the possibility of a professional unit operating in the area. This is particularly important for high-risk areas, which have actually been declared high-risk areas of fire, and above all I think of the Adriatic County, because down there is indeed the objectively greatest danger. But they're also the biggest problems. When we talk about public fire department relations and voluntary fire departments, then we must bear in mind the efficiency of the same. The absolute efficiency is on the side of the public fire departments on their equipment and on their training to... deal with really heavy fires and severe disasters, because without it there is no real protection, no property, no people, and in that sense my full support to them. But you also need to take care of tradition, you need to take care that it is not enough even once that public fire departments themselves protect against fires, but should naturally be supported by voluntary fire. So I'm asking you if you really need to systematically edit the new bill, simply not exhaust yourself right now. And when we talk about how we could have done something in the last year, and indeed you were a colleague of Mršić's, so you were four years old, so you didn't do anything, and you should have done it.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28475	Thank you. The word has a distinguished representative, Ingrid Antičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28476	Here's Mr. President, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Very short. This is one proposal of the Law as normally the Government used to bring in one to two articles over the year, however, this is one solution where the situation was to be promoted for a whole year and where there was really enough time for all these nice words that we heard from the HDZ Club today and at the expense of the firefighters, I really support it, but then it was just about to be brought to life by one consistent law, by one full law, and not by amending that regulation that it would only be settled until the new law was passed. That even the government had one good impasse, the legal proposal that the opposition proposed, but which is not even included in the agenda at all, so there are good ideas if the government doesn't accept such a proposal, but there were certainly good ideas on the trail and on the way to solve this whole problem that we all are talking about here in unison by competing on even who the firefighters are, so depending on where we come from better. I think it's a missed debate, because firefighters are almost not bad from any area, just need the government to do it right and in an adequate way to solve it. Obviously, however, that is not the case. But the real question remains why is it not so and for what? Is there already and then enough resources in the budget for next year to be adequately said and repeated by the unisono to solve these problems? However, there remains one more crucial question here, do we, with decentralisation of functions and decentralisation and resources? Because here and now both at this point, the municipalities and cities facing this problem don't just see, they just don't know what they're on. And they have to plan their own budgets. Therefore, such an ad hoc solution we have been brought to the wall, and I will personally vote for this proposal to supplement the Fire Department Act, but I note that there has really been plenty of time. Here we have recently had a protest of firefighters who were just talking about this problem, where they point out the necessity of a complete solution. Whether or not the government will do it soon, at the beginning of next year, we'll see. But this was the ideal time that we had here now a complete amendment to that law, so that in the new financial year we could do it satisfactorily and stick to that solution. So, as of the new year, the same problem has yet to be reopened. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28477	Correction of the incorrect quote Zdenka Babić-Petricevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28478	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen, my colleague said that it is not true that the Croatian Democratic Community Club only heard about the quality of fire companies were public or voluntary in the Republic of Croatia, but was talking about the needs of companies that were certainly not in four years of priority for those run by the coalition government, and this was proven, so if you want to mention here the public units of Imotski or for example a voluntary fire company from Lovreč which did not correspond to either many correspondence sent to the Government of the Republic of Croatia from January 2000 to 2003. And that's true, and I can back it up for you in writing if you want.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28479	Thank you. Do not discuss the institute of correcting an incorrect quote. Replica esteemed representative Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28480	Well, I would agree with my colleague Anticevic on what she said. Maybe I should just step up that thesis, and I see a colleague from Dubrovnik leaving me about what was done, that nothing else was done since what happened in 2001 when the founding rights were returned to the local self-government units, when the deeatized what the state had taken away from cities and municipalities in 1990, because no fire department, no firehouse, no public fire department building was built by the state but were built by firefighters, municipalities and cities. It's just that Racan's government did it, that she brought it back to the cities and municipalities is enough not to mention that there was decentralisation, that it happened not to get help from the state but to decentralisation income. What's not good is that this income isn't enough to finance public fire departments, but for that, it's been enough all year to fix it if it wasn't good. After all, we were expecting and the government's announcement was that we would get to the end of the summer session of the Law on Local Self-Government and the Law on the Financing of Local Self-Government Units and that we had obtained this and that we had discussed it today would not have discussed this because these announcements would have made enough income in local self-government units so that they could finance public fire departments and voluntary fire companies. Therefore, what was promised was not done and therefore we have one fire temporary measure with a high degree of uncertainty for public fire departments and professional firefighters.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28481	Thank you. You have replicated the distinguished representative Antičević, not the respected representative Matusic. Thank you. We finished this morning's session. At 3 p.m., there is a follow-up and a distinguished representative, Dražan Bošnjaković, is coming. We'll continue with the afternoon session. The word has an esteemed representative Drazen Bošnjaković.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28483	Mr. Vice-President, Mr. Secretary of State, not just many colleagues and colleagues, it is obvious that this Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Fire Department today must be passed, because it has only two articles, but these two articles are very important for the functioning of the activities of the fire department in the Republic of Croatia. In fact, it has been shown that the model and the form of financing of public fire departments in the Republic of Croatia, based on the applicable legislation, was simply inconclusive, and if we did not pass this law today, we would actually experience the fact that the fire departments in 2005 could not be financed and there would be no significant sources of funding. Let me remind you, in force Articles 58 and 43. The Fire Department Act, the financing of public fire departments, is exclusively in the jurisdiction of units of local self-government which, unfortunately, are unable to carry out this task which the Law has given them, whether because they do not have sufficient resources in their budgets, or because they have not, which has not applied to the section which the Law allows to actually be implemented through an increase or a new Community contribution decision to find the funds needed to finance public fire units. I mean, there are actually a number of other reasons in the field, and I think there's a lot going through this law in this very important and important area of firepower, so that something can be done so that municipalities and cities can set up public fire stations, municipalities and cities can set up joint public fire stations, which would probably be the most rational at a particular site. However, as something can be done, then very often we get to it, if possible, so it doesn't have to, so if it doesn't, then it doesn't, so we see from the very reason of this law that there are a number of units of local self-government that have fulfilled those obligations, which is founded by fire forces. However, there is also the other part of the local self-government units that did not comply with the law because they simply did not establish these own fire departments, but neither do they appear as co-founders with others, with other units of local self-government with which they could be. I would like to say that in the area of two or three municipalities or cities, it would probably be enough, by some principle of economicity and rationality, and that there is only one fire department, and if this were to be set up, these units of local self-government would probably find more rational sources of funding for such a unit, but in practice we have cases where the city makes a decision and builds a fire department, and the municipalities around that city simply go deaf, do not become co-founders or do not base their fire departments. I therefore think that the law should be regulated in a way that makes it quite clear and that certain criteria are prescribed, that one analysis should be made and that it should be established for which areas it is really necessary to establish a unit, which are minimum standards, and financial and all of them, because it is obvious that today when we adopt this law in Article 58a. that the Republic of Croatia will finance those minimum standards for carrying out firefighting, to carry out the activities of public fire departments. So if we're going to finance it from the state budget, then I think it's perfectly fine and we're going to write down some stdands, so that thing is clear to the end. And that is why I think that it should certainly work in the future to make this law more clear, that these provisions that provide opportunities, that they are actually significantly better built and that they are based on a quality analysis of the situation in specific areas, to see where the fire department, which is the scope of this fire force, should be, however, how much of the state budget will be involved in its financing, how much the units of local self-government will participate, in which way they will have, whether from the contribution, whether from the budget, we have less, however, it is obvious that this does not work on the ground, because it is quite clear that both our units of local self-government are not financially equipped, or able to finance all those decentralised functions that are being transferred to them. So I don't think it's questionable that today, without any reservation, we just have to bring it in, because for a purely reason, if we didn't bring it in, next year we could have a really very bad financial situation related to the functioning of this activity. And I would not tend to those who are actually trying to say that this is now the fault of this government, but I simply think that through these 4 or 5 years ago, it is very clear that this share and that this process crosses these functions of carrying out fire work on local self-government units was not sustainable in these conditions and in these financing relations as they are in the Republic of Croatia. And so I advocate, in any case, this law must be passed for a clear reason in order for the 2005 funding to really be correct and that we do not experience any surprises here, but I also advocate that we actually change the law in a very good way in this way to do an analysis of how much of these professional fire departments we need precisely for which areas, because only then do I think it will be clear what the government will finance through these minimum standards. That means that if we're already funding something, then we know exactly what we're funding. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28484	Thank you. Replica, the distinguished representative of Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28485	Well, I'd just like to replicate about this observation around the can, because, therefore, the units of local self-government can form public fire departments. It is now, however, at the moment local self-government units took over founding rights was not such an advantage. Therefore, it was not contractual, but at that time the law said that the founding rights of the local self-government not to take over the founding rights, but at that time they had to take over all the employees and all the material assets they had, so it happened that because until then the fire department, the public fire department within the Ministry of the Interior, that sometimes, let's say more than average, the filling of jobs was an inadequate degree of expertise and the training of what should be done. Therefore, it was not such an opportunity for public fire departments, that the units of local self-government were ultimately rationally established by public fire departments, in accordance with their own needs, but had to take over simply what was previously in the MUP, with all the rights that existed, and I will tell you that for example in one public fire department, everyone who was employed had an unfettered job experience, including the secretary of command. So these are the facts that were in that moment. If such a possibility existed from the beginning, then we could really talk like that, but here we don't really need to talk about what it is, which it isn't. The fact is that it is a decentralised state, that units of local self-government have income as they do in the countries we compare to would certainly not discuss the issue of fire. There would be enough money for public fire departments, and certainly local self-government units would be organized to establish a public fire unit in a specific wider area, which does not mean that it would be equal enough for firefighters to now and to protect more units of local self-government.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28486	Thank you. Replication response representative Drazen Bošnjaković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28487	A colleague only actually explained about the transitional provisions of the former law. I just wanted to say that at this point we have too many of those provisions that make it possible and I think it would be really rational to find in a particular area of several municipalities and cities some measure that would be rational for all of them together to form a joint fire unit because we now have situations where, for example, you have a city that founded either to take over the fire department that was but the founders are not the municipalities that are nearby, which are territorially bound to that city. So funding and costs fall on one unit of local self-government and these others so I say around they don't participate in it. And I think that this law must be more importantly clear and that this law must set certain standards that will actually be based on some kind of experience analysis as much as it is threatened and simply reach certain standards for a particular area it takes as many units and their equipment is such and so, and then the government will come as easily as it needs to be co-financed, as many units of local self-government can and I think that we would solve this problem very quickly or in any case get at least a better solution.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28488	Thank you. Honorable representative Miroslav Korenika. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28489	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues! There is no doubt that fire is extremely important for the functioning and safety of our citizens. I come from the county, where the City of Varazdin is also marked this year by 120 years of organized firefighting, or the draft of the first Croatian Fire Department. However, all the problems that cause fire all over Croatia occur in the area of the Varazdin County and the City of Varazdin team before we have a strong professional unit as well. However, neither the City of Varazdin, which is said to be immediately clear and precise, has twice as much original income as the Varazdin County has difficulty financing its fire department because other than the professional fire department in the settlements of the town of Varazdin, voluntary fire companies also operate. Supporting the adoption of this law because we must be aware without a financial cake, simply the fire will fall apart and will not operate in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. However, what I would like and what has already been highlighted in earlier discussions is that we should still get a report on the financial situation in the Croatian fire department, the condition of the equipment, too, and we should once and for all get the criteria on which this money is distributed, which is expected to be distributed over and over the next year because it is very important. Unfortunately, we do not have the criteria in a lot of activities in the Republic of Croatia since education, health care, especially for decentralised functions, so we have, for example, one firefighter or one insurance company or one hospital bed, not equal money in Varazdin, Zagreb or for instance Dubrovnik. So when the criteria are clear and accurate, we will be able to discuss these problems much better and better. As always in the fire department, the problem is money and we can say whether or not local communities are able to organise their fire departments. They certainly are, but the problem is always how much money they have. We have recently discussed the Rescue and Protection Act and this law again has some obligations towards units of regional and local self-government but it does not monitor enough money for these functions. It's a similar thing in the fire department. Here when we look at it we are also budgeting and going towards some counties to get less and less and less more counties get less money for their decentralised functions than they had for this year or for last year. And I must say, for example, we have an increasing metropolisation of Croatia. Only the Varazdin County and the City of Varazdin will lose about 8 million kuna by buying the Varazdinska Banka and profit and profit, the profit tax goes to the City of Zagreb, from it there is nothing left where it was achieved in the area of Varazdinska County and the surrounding counties where the former Varazdinska Banka operates. The same is true of Croatian roads, Croatian forests and all others. Thus, those who speak so that the county can finance fire stations where cities or more municipalities cannot be wrong. We must and will be able to say that the county is also dealing with the moment when we will also distribute or decentralise the state stronger than we have so far and when not only the cities and municipalities but also the counties will have more money than they currently have. I hope that after the debate on the Tax on Profits Act we will go perhaps in this direction because who is to blame or who is to blame for living in the province and, for example, the biggest banks, the largest public companies are based in Zagreb and there is no way that they will not be in Zagreb because we see that some other companies like me, the Blue Lagoons, are going with headquarters in Zagreb and everything else and in this way the province is getting even more impoverished. That's why I think everyone has to go now because there is no other solution to advocate and support the application of this law, but it seems to me that very quickly we have to come after it to allow units both local and regional self-government to get the right opportunity with a bigger financial cookie. They have now obtained the right, but this right cannot be consumed for the simple reason why money is insufficient. It is precisely because for this law as a palitative measure, as a current fire method, I expect that both the ministry and this government will come very quickly before the Croatian Parliament with a new law, primarily to decentralise the additional local and regional self-government, but also to enable a larger financial cake that will allow us in the province to perform better and better the functions for which the central state has given us or wishes to give us in due time to deal with them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28490	Thank you. Dear Representative Antun Kavljevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28491	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The two thesis here today is that firefighters are only to defend against fires and other thesis that we remain at the same level of funding as we have so far. And one and the other thesis that's going through here doesn't stand because if we look at what the fire departments did last year, and when we count all the technical interventions that they did on the facilities, which in the open space, which in traffic and what on the excisers, then we can say that's the total number of interventions of 18 thousand 181. And if we look at how it's moving in these five years, the total of these units have intervened 78 thousand 169 times, and on top of that, the fires were only three to nine thousand, depending on the year, but on average we can say that it's about five to six thousand fires a year. So, it's not just that we need a fireman when it comes to fire, but firemen have worked on buildings when opening apartments, saving, opening up diesels, collapsing, pumping, especially with us in Slavonia when it comes to floods. Afterwards, they worked on open spaces both on the water and on the removal of obstacles, in road, rail, maritime, river and air transport, and in the accent we know very well how many times the firefighters were invited when it came to turning tanks, which was very common in recent times where they were working on washing the terrain, streaming and normal and not closing and opening water and gas. But I would go back to this system of funding, which all the time points out that the financing of the unit remains at the same level, and when it comes to 237 million kunas, then it's said to be exactly the same as it was last year. However, there is no mention of now entering the 237 million kuna from the state budget and 30% from local units. We know very well that some cities such as Zagreb and larger cities will be able to finance their obligations to fire stations in any case. However, the question is raised with all those who do not. And they all go in with 30% in these 237 thousand kunas together. What else is wrong with this whole story? In any case, this was not a profession because the profession calculated how much this should be taking into account many indicators and their calculation seems so that they would need 269 million kuna to remain at the level of what was once. This amount of 237 million kuna has been extended for 4,5 years with 57 professional units entering it, it entered before 55, however, two were founded in the meantime so that now 57, the amount remained the same. And for that reason, I believe that this amount of 237 million kuna, in which only 170 million kuna is actually going from the budget, is not enough to finance, and that in any case this is just a fire extinguisher, and that, when the building has been properly set on fire and when it's already burned to the ground, then we're going to put out what's left of it, so we're shutting down the foundations. I support this anyway. The foundations need to be shut down, however, this is not a solution for fire and this is not a solution for the future. What should we do in the future anyway? In order to resolve the issue of firefighting, at least 5 laws that are directly related to firefighting, which is the Law on Protection and Rescue, should be harmonised, which should be done in such a way as to permanently resolve the financing of professional units, as well as voluntary fire companies. Then, the Civil Protection Act, the Fire Protection Act and the Law on the financing of local and regional self-government. As long as this is not done, as long as the issue of fire is systematically resolved, the only thing that remains for the firefighters is to trust in God and stick to their well - known help from God, brothers of firemen.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28492	Thank you. Final review, State Secretary Ivica Buconjic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28493	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Here I have listened carefully to this debate, I must admit that I expected a much shorter debate, a smaller number of participants, but obviously this is a subject that is very interesting, especially from one perspective of local self-government. I must admit that there were very, very high-quality debates that pointed to the importance of the problem but there may have been little misunderstanding of the problem and this may have been present in the case of non-local self-governments. But in any case, what I said in the debate on the Protection and Rescue Act, I will repeat only certain parts since this new system of protection and rescue and this new law is very closely linked to this Law, since complete professional fire work with 1. One, enters that new security and rescue facility. No doubt this has all been kind of improvising so far. When the fire department passed out of the MUP's jurisdiction into local self-government. However, the transition from the state ministry to local self-government was not as chaotic as it may seem, or at least it should not have been by legal means. Namely, there were a lot of words on the basis of which the number of necessary firefighters was established, based on which the number of necessary fire departments were established and the 99th Fire Department decided quite clearly in the transitional and final provisions where it said that the number of employees gave the article, municipality, city and city of Zagreb could not be reduced if it did not make an assessment of the threat and plan of protection and rescue. It is obviously a big problem that a good part of the city’s municipalities and plans, assessment of threats and plans for protection and rescue did not bring. So there was less left in all municipalities and cities, or in cities that in the majority of the founders of fire stations were the condition that was found in the 99th year and at 1. 1. In 2000, there was a certain weekly increase in the number of employees. I know this from practice, and it really was what I didn't think was right if they hadn't done a quality assessment before and what we said ourselves that it wouldn't be good if the Protection and Rescue Act was passed, which re-introduces the obligation to make an assessment of the threat that these threat assessments are done tendingly for certain reasons and not really according to the state of the field. It is very important to make quality evaluations and then, by the basis of this assessment, we can really get to the right, the right number of required firefighters. It is also certain that on the ground he created a problem and not cooperation between cities that were the only founders of fire stations and municipalities that had gravitated these cities because, in practice, many times, there was a situation that the municipalities did not want to participate in the co-financing of public, professional and fire forces, saying that the only founders of these units were cities. However, these units built or intervened in the area and these municipalities, and surely these municipalities were also to participate in funding. This is certainly one problem that was solved somewhere, where there was understanding of the municipalities but there are two municipalities that did not want to solve this problem in agreement, so they even called for some of their duty to the municipalities, so they called for their dvds, although apparently this Law does not apply to dvds, refers to voluntary fire departments in the area where municipalities and cities are said to be obliged to single out 5% for voluntary fire departments while the financing of professional units is quite another story. And now we're talking about this story about the financing of professional firefighters. This may act as a fire-fighting measure, however, we went to such a solution since only last week has the Protection and Rescue Act been passed, that the Fire Department is new already in preparation but could not have been passed without the Protection and Rescue Act, so we will surely, this will be only one measure that will create conditions for permanent and quality solving the firemen's funding problem because it writes in this Article 58, which is practically the only article that the government will make a decision on minimum financial standards. Only when we make that decision on minimum financial standards will it be possible for me to at least normally complete this job to create conditions for quality financing of public, professional fire departments. Otherwise, I have already agreed in the talks and in coordination with the trade union of firemen how to do this and surely these standards will not be passed without agreement and co-ordination with the trade union of professional firefighters. And with their association of professional firefighters because of this, it was the same observation by some MPs, it is definitely clear that the situation with fire and firefighters is not identical throughout Croatia. There is indeed a difference between the city and g work, from the region to the region, and in the quality of the facilities and in the equipment and in the financial fiscal strength and ability of cities that can finance these activities in their own way. So let me say, I'm sure we'll take into account all these criteria that can't be met with fair standards for all fire departments. If we went to a uniquely determined amount for all fire departments again, we would create a riot on the ground because, as I said, the situation in all areas is not the same. So surely this law, or form, was necessary precisely to create assumptions that this problem would be solved permanently, I hope that I am deeply convinced of the lasting and quality of it. By making it perfectly clear to me that we will have to change a series of laws of what Mr. Kavljevic said. And most of these laws have already been prepared and we will certainly have to take good care of the passing of these laws to make sure that management takes care of these problems that have been highlighted and in today's debate by the vast majority of MPs. And just one more thing, just to remind you that this year, no matter what we're doing right now, through the programme of measures brought by the ministry, this year's fires worked more efficiently than last year. I already said that when I passed the rescue law. Thank God it was such a meteorological season but despite these more favorable circumstances we had far fewer fires, we had far less damage, we had far fewer victims and human and material. So surely those measures that the Ministry or the Department of Fire prepared, and the firemen on the ground must have given results through these far less damage. So, I say, the fire department has been one of the priorities of the government and in the last term of office where we have criticised the situation at the time is not ideal, but we will certainly begin to create conditions for a better quality in the fire department. And what I want to say here is publicly that the funding of firefighters next year will be at the funding level of them this year. There was some information that even stood by that data stood in the material that appeared at the government. But these data were not correct, what some MPs said is 237 million of them 70% of the states, 30% of them write, definitely writes, it's certainly an argument. But here I am arguing that funding will be at a level of 269 million this year. That was agreed with the Ministry of Finance, and I'm sure we have a firm promise. So we practically didn't want to change those materials until this law was passed. But next year, funds will be provided at the level of this year. By creating very quickly these documents, which will set minimum financial standards. And then the sooner we go after them with funding, the better the situation in the fire department. So to say one part of these remarks that you said stood out, I hope that here I have this brief review of at least managed to clarify some things a little bit. Because it's really a complex question that gets in the way of a few laws. And you need to look at more regulations that regulate this matter. But I'm getting high by the spring after the adoption of these three laws, the Civil Protection Act, the Fire Department and the Fire Protection Act, that we'll certainly work this out and that the situation will be far better. Because everyone's interested in the next fire season if it doesn't get better, it's not at least worse about the one that was much better than the last one. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28494	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the respected representative Antun Kapraljevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28495	I would only correct the part where the secretary of state said the number of employees was increasing. In 1.1.2000, there were 2157 employees in professional units. This year it means today 2084. So it wasn't an increase in the number of workers, and I'm very glad you said it was going to be an am level last year, but not 237 as much as it says in our materials, but what Mr. Shuker promised Minister Schuker promised, which is 268 million.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28496	I'm closing the debate. Final proposal for a law supplementing the Fire Department Act. The debate on the text of the Law is over. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee. State Secretary Buconjic. Please note the amendments submitted by the Legislative Committee. Amendment 1.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28498	Amendment 1 is not accepted since it is practically identical to the Government's proposal only has some language differences. It's unacceptable!
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28499	President of the Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28500	I'm pulling.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28501	Pull the amendment. Amendment 2.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28502	Amendment 2 is not accepted. It's unacceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28503	I'm pulling.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28504	Okay. And Amendment 2 withdrawn. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Who's in? The same in line with the proposal of the president of the HDZ Club, the hand of Bebic to vote by raising his hand. Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? I find that it is unanimous with 79 votes for the Law on the Completion of the Fire Department in the text as proposed by the Government. - Final draft law amending the law on scientific activity, higher education, emergency procedure, first and second reading of P.Z. No. 196; The legislator is the Government. When establishing the agenda, we accepted the application of an emergency procedure in the adoption of this law. The emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committees of the Law, Education of Science and Culture, please the Secretary of State of the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports of Mr. Slobodan Šemec to further explain the proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28506	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, this is a proposal to amend the two articles of Law 116 and 119. In accordance with Article 116 of the Law, it is determined that the postgraduate study will be established and implemented according to the provisions of this law, no later than the current academic year 2004 and 2005. The current situation shows that most of the higher schools of this study did not comply with this provision of the law. The proposed amendment of this article would set a deadline for the establishment and organisation of postgraduate studies with a deadline for setting up undergraduate studies, and they should be organised in 2005 and 2006 to ensure sufficient time for respect of that deadline. In addition, we also highlight the provision of Article 114(3), which provides for a time limit for the coordination of statues and other general acts, is set at 1 March of the following year. These, of course, need to bring the basic general law in line with the provisions of the law, so that, in accordance with the same, the harmonisation of both undergraduate and postgraduate studies. With regard to this article, it is therefore proposed that the last sentence in that article be deleted and that amendment would be satisfactory. The second amendment concerns Article 119 of the Law, it provides for regulation of working relations for scientific recruits, younger assistants, assistants and more assistants in accordance with the provisions of the law. It's a question that was very public, I think it's known to the public, so, of course, to the representatives of this whiskey house. The initiative for the current legislative solution, I recall, was the result of the general commitment of the Government, of including and equating our scientific recruits and associates in European flows and criteria. Otherwise, the need to cut deadlines in a law that is in force is the consequence of how to abolish the master's of science which has become unnecessary would have been unsustainable for the deadlines for obtaining a PhD in science to be as long as they were at the time of obtaining a master's degree before obtaining a doctorate of science. As, however, the persons found in the higher education science system before the entry into force of this law, that circle of persons should be regulated by the basis of transitional and final provisions of the laws under which this article of the law is also subject. The Government of the Republic of Croatia has seen the possible adverse consequences of the application of the article, this article of the law, given that there is a really significant number of scientific recruits and assistants, we have been in a thorough analysis of this and we have convinced ourselves that in the next two years because of the reduction of these deadlines we would not be able to achieve assumptions about obtaining a PhD in science. This amendment of the article is, in fact, a thorough, thoroughly reorganised article, article 2 would receive 5 items. I don't know if there's any need, Mr. President, that I'm reading it, if I have to, I'll be happy to do it, but esteeming your time, since you've got Therefore, in paragraph 1, we point out that the basis of the amendment is the first completed working contract for a specified or indefinite period of time. [[The President's attack: Moderate, moderate.]] In the second paragraph, we are talking about the exception, because someone could replace that contract with another, better, more favourable, and we refer to it, in the third paragraph, we are talking about the 8 years that we are actually going back to, at 4 we are talking about the maximum 11 years, I think about the maximum that is allowed here, and in the last 5 we are talking about that group of young scientists who are in the final highest possible degree of assistance, these are senior assistants, who retain the existing working contract as something that is favourable to him. Here, that's, that's what I thought was necessary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28507	Thank you very much. Does the rapporteur want a committee? President of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture. Dear Representative Peter Selem, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28508	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. The Committee on Education of Science and Culture at its meeting on 29 November considered this proposal of the Law on Amendments to the Law on Scientific Activity and Higher Education and, in fact, made it clear that after the registration, the Government had actually adopted one voice of the public, which is concerned about the future and the existence of even a number of young scientists, proposed to give up these rather drastic deadline-cutting measures and to go to what the Government is now proposing, that is, the Ministry of What it has proposed. Discussions were also attended by representatives of the academic community, the Zagreb rector, the Split rector who also supported this bill, believing that it would meet with a large number of young scientists who would simply not be on the street if the law were strictly applied, but were given the opportunity to carry out their duties within a normal time and finally clearly doctor. The Committee therefore proposes to adopt and adopt this law amending the law on scientific activity and higher education by emergency procedure and in the form prepared by the proposings.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28509	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. The club of representatives of HSS, respected representative Bozidar Pankretic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28510	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. At first, I would remind you that this year we discussed this law in July and that if a mistake was made, because no suggestions and suggestions of the Association of Assistants were accepted. So I ask you to respect the amendments of the HSS and the reasons for them, because I want to speak without taking political views. I will also try to be as mild as possible in order to solve the issue of our young assistants in any case and to really help them, because we all have talked about the importance of science together in Croatian society, especially for our future. I would just like to remind you that currently in the Republic of Croatia we have 7% of the population with high school supplies, we have about 3,000 assistants and we think this is an extremely important topic. It is also very important for us to keep in science all assistants, because the wages in science are less than in the economy, and it is important to appreciate those who remain in the higher education system and take care of about 120,000 students in the Republic of Croatia. Proposals were submitted at the Constitutional Court for the assessment of the consent of the Law on Scientific Activity and Higher Education with the Constitution, and only then did the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports understand the error and refer this proposal to the procedure. However, the fact is that this caused damage to the assistants who were in the period until this change could not receive a contract of work, nor were they elected to higher calling. So the real reason is the constitutional suit, but it doesn't matter, it's important to admit the mistake and bring the best amendment in the debate. On the proposal itself, I would first say that given this bill, the big question is whether to prepare a postgraduate and graduate study under the new rules by the start of the academic year 2005/2006, so we may be able to discuss this law again and extend these deadlines for another year. The secretary of state wasn't very confident, but we're pretty sure it might come and we'll see. In particular, Article 119 still fails to resolve the status of assistants in the first place, since some assistants have been brought into a more unfavourable position. So far, for example, their doctorate-settling deadline has been counting on the election to call an assistant. So, after the Master's degree, they had four more years to get a doctorate. Now some of them will only be left for years, two for the making of a doctorate, which is physically, intellectually and procedurally almost impossible. We also understand the minister who has acquired his doctorate elsewhere, but in the Croatian system of higher education from the choice of the topic to the doctorate itself, for more than a year, because, for example, from the application for doctorate to the defence itself, it takes a minimum of 4 committees, and at the Faculty of Natural History and Mathematics, as many as 8 sessions of the Council. Therefore, the HSS proposes an amendment that will, after that explanation, adopt and assist our assistants and sciences in general. Please adopt this amendment because I am afraid of the increased departure of young assistants from science or even from Croatia, and I would point out that in molecular biology for the last 10 years, about 40% of completed students have left Croatia. I would also ask the Secretary of State to receive representatives of the University of Zagreb Veterinary Assistants Association, speak to them and if there is a common solution, whether with such amendments as we have proposed or some solution with which they will be satisfied, we will be pleased to support this proposal for amendments and additions to the Law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28511	Thank you. The club of HNS representatives of PGS, respected representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28512	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The PGS HNS Club will in any way support these amendments and additions to the Law on Scientific Activity and Higher Education. They're necessary, they're logical. But what bothers us is the fact that exactly four months ago and 16 days ago we proposed the same supplement. Look, Mr. Secretary of State, you were present, a phonogram on page 292/4/KM at the bottom of that page, you'll see the same thing nicely. It was logical to introduce this in the transitional and final provisions. Then by verbal acrobatics you avoid doing it, you haven't even checked how it stands in the law exactly that element and today we have the same law on the agenda again. This is not the first time this has happened, it happened with the law when we joined the International Centre for the Promotion of Migration Policy and a series of other opportunities. So we keep going back to the same laws, supplementing the same laws because it simply does not want to hear even technical proposals for corrections by the opposition. Not even technical. I understand when two equally valid proposals are that you will always support what is logical as most, the Government's proposal. But when it comes to technical failures, at least then release us from these unnecessary repetitions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28513	Dear Representative Ivo Josipovic on behalf of the SDP Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28514	Dear Mr. President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. We have before us one revision of the law that I think we all unanimously support and, of course, there is no dispute about it. The question arises as to how there was a mistake, and I will return to what I pointed out when I spoke about the law itself to the original amendments and amendments, that the fact that the ministry in the preparation of all these laws was open and that it collaborated with the Academic Community and that, especially with some changes, the Academy community itself may have overestimated its strengths and forced some deadlines such as this deadline for implementation after graduate studies which are not realistic. I must admit that by reading a law that is very ambitious and which provides for major structural changes in the system of science and higher education, I may not rule out what someone has already mentioned, that we may encounter other repairs, but I would not take that as a tragedy in itself. Otherwise, the ambition in lawmaking is of course good, but I think it should be borne in mind that the system, each system, and especially this sensitive as in science, is high education, what we would say, once we should leave alone that for a long time we are working on one rule that will not change, precisely because the rules have been changed too often in the last and more than 4, 5, 6 or 10 years, I have to come up with a situation that we simply cannot come up with all the situations where someone might be deprived of certain acquired rights or legitimate interests. I think it happened in this relationship with the assistants, and even if I remember, there were also in the Academic community those who were in favour of and against this kind of solution, and here it ended up bad, and it's fortunate that it still reacts and the mistake repairs. Of course, questions should also be touched whether such pre-rigorous or unwarranted provisions as this one has been, detimizing young people and imposing on them obstacles that are objectively not possible to overcome. We've been changing this provision in fact to many people who've spent five or six years or six or seven years, who normally, according to the law, planned for their doctorate retroactively, see now you're not eight anymore than you have six, you're out of time, you're out on the road. So it's something that's not good for the system, it's not good for young people on whom the future of science and higher education rests, and that's why it's good for the provision to change. That is why, as it is said, I do not go further and the SDP Club supports such changes.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28515	Thank you very much. Club of HSLS DC respected representative Ivan Chehok. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28516	Dear President, Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. We also, when the new Law on Scientific Activity and Higher Education was passed in the previous term, warned that the deadlines and the basic intensity of this law would not be possible and that, in practice, it would not be possible to regulate the system of scientific activity and higher education and the fact that the changes we have brought to this session for the first time and now, which we are passing today, we are practically changing those parts of that law that we have previously predicted with great certainty that we will not be able to achieve. It would be said that this should not even be debated, because we are actually moving deadlines of enforcement and compliance with the law in just a year and it is really not crucial in the physical time of that year. But we are convinced that in social time it is very crucial what we do, because one year in physical time today in social times can be ten years lost. Unfortunately, Croatia has already lost too much of its time and has lost too much of its pace with the trends in education, otherwise mostly high education and science, so that we can afford the luxury to keep cancelling or constantly extending certain deadlines and that we have an uninterrupted practical feeling that we have enough communications and enough time to catch those deadlines. It seems to me that exactly the moment that the fundamental intensity of the legal changes in the existing law is actually being achieved, that that law will actually be obsolete. We, I'll remind you, have passed the Law of Science, on higher education where we've kind of delayed everything for four or five years, so apply basic articles. I was convinced completely and I was talking and then on behalf of the club that the moment these articles start to apply, when the law actually takes effect it will be obsolete, it will be anacron, it will be agglomerating and we will practically have to pass a new law. So I would, of course, support the adoption of these changes, because they do no harm to anyone, yet I would suggest to the Secretary of State and the Ministry to make a new law that will catch up with time, because I really don't think it makes sense to pass laws with delayed application. We are not the ones who discuss reality that has delayed application but we are here to act in accordance with the requirements of this reality, the demands of our citizens above all students and teachers, that is, the entire system of higher education, and it seems to me that it would be much smarter for us all to realize once that we don't have enough time anymore, that we can't be more comfortable and catch a step for the next five years than that we have to pass a new law that will be concentrated and that will actually catch up with time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28517	Thank you. We're going to an individual debate. Honored representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. He's giving up. Thank you very much. Dear Representative Nenad Stazic. He's gone. He's losing his word. Dear representative Ivanka Roksandić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28518	Thank you, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State. Here, just a few words about changing this law. We have already seen the presentations of representatives of clubs that it is really necessary to adopt these amendments in order to enable the return of acquired rights which young money had scientific and assistants before the conclusion of their work contract, and by way of effect of the existing Law. We have seen that high schools have not prepared themselves for this way in their formation and organization. Similarly, not all of them have taken on the obligations arising from this Law, and it would be truly unfair for young people, scientists who have remained in this country, who have dedicated themselves to science, to prevent them from progressing. First of all, progress, what is visible in Article 19. The law would be damaged by those who could not now be in between, during this transitional period between master's degree and doctorate to achieve a certain scientific degree. The Ministry of Science really invests a lot in all young scientists, invests in everything to keep them in Croatia, and here is the insurance of their housing needs, scholarships, new employment of scientific recruits at the university that is expected in 2005 would be unfair to prevent them from developing these deadlines and their progress and normal development. Of course, that's why I see that we've all agreed so far. We need to support these amendments to the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28519	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Marko Turic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28520	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Since it is a proposal for a law that is very clear, relatively short, only three articles, necessary, and my debate will be in that line. So, relatively short. The process of creating a knowledge society that is happening everywhere in the developed world imposes a number of social, social changes at the heart of the adaptation of education systems, the needs of a faster development of society, and thus the economy. Croatia needs a system of science and higher education capable of initiating and carrying the main burden of change in society. Here, for these very reasons, societies and states of the academic community are demanding and justified. I'll only mention in 1999 the Bologna Declaration signed. When the process of harmonising the higher education institutions of all European countries was launched that would enable mobility and employment of all citizens of Europe and thus increase the level of consent of European higher education. A country that would not accept and accept reforms would, of course, remain out of the main flows of these changes and could not fit into the European spaces of higher education and research. The 2003 Law regulates different aspects of scientific and higher education activities. However, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has seen in a relatively short time the amendment of this Law that they can have adverse consequences for the final and transitional provisions. And the transitional provisions provide for shortened deadlines, as we have already heard of obtaining a PhD in science. There are a significant number of scientific recruits and assistants who in the next 2 years would not be able to reach assumptions for progress, and they entered the system of science and higher education before the law enters into force. The proposed amendments and proposals will come to meet and need the renewal of the teaching scientific staff, and these are mostly young people and opinions, not only I, I believe that it shares the opinion and entire academic sciences, that it will support these proposed changes as logical and necessary. So I will also personally advocate the adoption of this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28521	Thank you. Dear representative Marija Lugaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28522	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I support, as well as other colleagues and colleagues, this proposal because this proposal really avoids the possible adverse consequences of the application of the existing Article 119. The law. I don't want this debate to get the impression that we are now introducing something new and revolutionary with these amendments and additions to the law. With these amendments and additions to the Law, we only correct something that we all overlooked together when we last passed the law. And in the future, when we pass laws, especially such important ones, so that the case that was doesn't happen, that in an emergency procedure, the law is passed, and then we lose sight of the real lives and the real problems of people. This problem and we wouldn't even know about it if the public and the ministry hadn't alarmed themselves the assistants and the money themselves, and according to the ministry, the initiative on the amendment of this Act, and from the assistants themselves, but from a number of opposition clubs of MPs, so does our club, and it's good that the ministry has accepted all these initiatives. And I hope that today or when we vote unanimously we will adopt this law. Now, Mr. President, I ask you, given that today's topic of discussion is regulation of working relationships for recruits, for younger assistants, assistants and more assistants to also warn of some key problems that our young researchers have to deal with today. In fact, the book of Mrs Katarina Prpić, titled "Sociological portrait of young scientists", published by the Institute of Social Research, has just come out of the press. This study is the first systematic demonstration of the social and professional position and role of young scientists. The study was conducted on a sample of 840 subjects and subjects, which is in any case a representative sample. Why do I think it's important to say here, even this time? Because this research offers a number of interesting, and for the state and for us here, I mean both significant and data, but also a message. What is one of the most important results is the fact that today young researchers and scientists, primarily money and assistants are in an extremely bad position. Probably most here in the Croatian Parliament do not know that the average salary of assistants or recruits is at our higher education institutions and institutes somewhere at the level of average salary in the Republic of Croatia, i.e. only a few hundred kunas above that. The future Croatian elite or at least people who should be the future Croatian elite, unfortunately, is not even today's social elite, even though they should be today. It is good that today we are passing a law that will provide money and assistants with such material security, safety at work, but it is not nearly enough for young scientists to do so. I repeat, the salary of recruits and assistants is today in Croatia somewhere at the level of the average beach. One even fellow assistant in the research itself said "it's unfortunate that I have a salary of only 200 kuna bigger than a cleaning lady in a public company" and I don't think that's right. It is a shame for Croatia and it is not good for Croatia. Also, this study shows that 37% of young scientists in the Republic of Croatia still live with their parents. It's a population between 25 and 35 that needs to be created by their families, and because of their poor wages and social status, they simply don't have the conditions. Also, research shows that young scientists live in a rather Spartan lifestyle, at least they characterized it that reduces their leisure time, reduces vacation and entertainment, makes family life more comfortable and relaxed. Today's life of recruits and assistants in most cases marks a constant struggle for everyday life and the inability to solve existential problems. Why is it important to solve these problems? In accordance with this already mentioned research, the excellent research and scientific professional prospects of this research shift in the Republic of Croatia, which has shown a very high level of professional ethics and have a very high scientific... which rests on very demanding and highly professional standards and the fact that today our young scientists are more successful at all important professional and other parameters than their predecessors from the early 1990s. This bright, future professional prospect cloudes the unfavourable influence of primarily social underestimation of science. This treatment of science that drives talented young people from science and scientific careers is not good and I don't think that we here in the Croatian Parliament can or should support it. In another group of problems that plague young scientists, assistants and recruits is the fact that everyday jobs are undefined. Some of the recruits and assistants are teaching, some of them don't teach. Some have classes just a few hours a week, some hold almost daily a few hours of teaching. Young researchers are troubled by the fact that they often do technical, auxiliary jobs, administrative jobs for their mentors. Even the assistants made one term for it, they said that those who feel like academic slavery once in a while, because they often do what they do because they're frustrated by the fact that the merits of it are taken over by someone else primarily their mentors, and they're dealing with some kind of technical affairs. And Mr. Secretary of State, Your Honor, Mr. President, I did not want to confuse this peace with this debate a little bit, and a general agreement about this law that rules here in the Croatian Parliament, but, once again, to warn of poor status and reputation and science and education, especially young scientists and assistants in Croatian society. In that sense, we as the Croatian Parliament must stay away from giving only declarative support and from time to time to say that it is difficult for people, that this is good, now we are sending a good message, we as the Croatian Parliament in that part of our responsibility, where our responsibility is the greatest, it is the primary state budget we have an obligation to do much more. We missed that opportunity when we were bringing the 2004 Budget, we failed to do that... since the declaration when we were bringing in the 2005 budget last week, because I repeat, compared to 2003, we reduced funding for the scholarship and scientific improvement of scientific recruits, we reduced funding for the scholarship and scientific improvement of graduates, and today we are talking about them and we are all campaigning and we have reduced resources for scientific research projects. Therefore, I ask that, in future, when we declare good topics in the Croatian Parliament, we express it affirmably, followed by concrete support where we as the Croatian Parliament have the greatest responsibility. The great value of this research that is on almost 300 pages in this book, which offers a large number of quotes from young people who participated in this research and when I read all together a fellow senior assistant is quite funny, but unfortunately brutally truthfully describing what kind of money is living in today, what kind of situation assistants live in. Well, with permission, I'd be done with it. Our colleague says that a young researcher can be satisfied with the work and income of high school institutions only if: (a) a rich married or married b) his whole life intends to spend at his parents' apartment and food c) he does not contact with colleagues and colleagues who are employed in the economy in particular not on their salaries, cars, houses, vacations d) he has a highly developed environmental awareness and does not want to use objects that pollute the area by using his own use, such as car, public transport, heating in winter, due to CO2 emissions, electricity and similar e) he has a bunch of wealthy relatives who die as flies without direct heirs. I think that, as the Croatian Parliament, apart from the declaration of support for such good legal proposals that I will support, we must do much more, and we can only do so when we adopt the budget and provided that we do not continuously reduce resources for science, education and especially for recruits and postgraduates. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28523	I'd like Secretary of State Free Taker for final consideration. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28524	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, allow me first of all to thank you for the support you made in the proposal, to thank both the gentlemen and the ladies who have criticised the proposal as well. Of course this criticism will be and has been accepted as the basis for our greater success. I must, I have missed the opening point that this proposal is, to a good extent, the result of the joint proposal of the ministry and of the very assistants with whom we have had a longer and direct conversation in the course of this proposal, so that in some ways we are not surprised by this support because it is a reflection and such a method of work. When it comes to error, we absolutely accept the assessment that a misjudge has been made, but there seems to be something more to be added, and it seems that this happened here, a mistake doesn't have to be done only by damage, I would also warn. We are prone to this mistake, which is no doubt a misjudge to see one of the benefits I would warn you of. It is about that and the fact is that the deadline for obtaining a PhD in science in us is unusually long and has to be shortened and in this way to the consciousness of those who have to ensure better working conditions for young scientists in order to be more successful and within a shorter period. This, this proposal and this assessment, I repeat, has made many, not only young scientists, but also his mentors and institutes and colleges, and all those who have found it quite convenient that 11 years for obtaining a doctorate has been provided anyway. So I'm simply warning at this point not as an excuse, I repeat once again, but as a fact which is already being shown to us as accurate, there is no difficulty in any way in contacting these people directly in the future. In short, I thank you again for your support. Mr. President, is there a need for an amendment?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28525	Later.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28526	Later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28527	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate on this final bill. Final draft law amending the Act on Scientific Activity and Higher Education. The debate on the text of the law is over. State Secretary Free Taker. The amendment was filed by the HSS Representatives' Club. Here you go, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28529	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, the amendment applies to Article 2 and to four of his five items. In fact, it's two elements, so allow a brief explanation why the government cannot accept the amendment. First, a word is introduced more favourably and with regard to the first concluded contract between a young scientist and a college or an institute. Although we understand and accept the intensities of the amendments, we cannot accept it because it is too high, or because it is trying to solve something that is basically already solved. In addition, the first contract is the most favourable and, if it is not, a new contract has been concluded and therefore there is an exception in paragraph 2 of this article which, therefore, complements the possible failure of the first. Furthermore, we consider it unacceptable and unnecessary indemnity sizes such as the number of years to start counting on something that is an arbitration category like that. category favourable, unfavourable, etc. Is it? At last, such an approach would allow us to exceed the deadline for which we all advocate, which is the earlier term of the 8-year-old who existed in the Law. The second thing, in paragraph 5, is a supplement that reads: “Unless the deadlines are shorter by.” It was probably meant to be said “from” mentioned in paragraph 3, paragraph 4. At first glance, that text should be accepted. However, that is really unnecessary, why? Because it is the persons who concluded their first contract before this Law, so according to the Law on High Schools, and under this Law it could not have been more than 11 years, 4 for a younger assistant, 4 for an assistant and 3 for a senior assistant. That's why we understand the intensity, but we can't accept the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28530	Thank you very much. There is no motion, we must vote. Who's in favour of this amendment? No one. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Who's in? Of course, by raising your hand according to a proposal from the HDZ Club of Representatives. Thank you. Against? Restraint? I find that with 79 votes for, unanimity, the Law amending the law on scientific activity and higher education has been adopted in the text as proposed by the Proposer. Thank you very much. So we're going to - Proposal for a Nature Protection Act, first reading P.Z.E. No. 198. The Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. In the case of the adoption of this Act, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committees on Legislative Affairs, European Integration, Spatial Regulation and Environmental Protection, Agriculture and Forestry. I ask the State Secretary of the Ministry of Culture, Jadran Antolovic, to further explain the proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28532	Thank you, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. The proposal of the Nature Protection Act is here we propose that you consider even though last year, a Nature Protection Act was adopted in September, which was then declared compatible with the European acquis. However, it contained, in addition to the provisions on the protection of nature, provisions on genetically modified organisms and as shown in both segments in these years, that the Law is very difficult to implement in practice because it is a prerequisite for its implementation as regards the protection of nature over 60 sublegal acts. This resulted in conditions for us to simply consider the need for the adoption of two laws, the Nature Protection Act, which would fully regulate the battery of nature protection, and in particular set out provisions on genetically modified organisms in a separate law. I think you will also have this Law, which is also directed to first reading on the agenda of this assembly session. I must also say that, in the current Nature Protection Act, there is a lot of illogicalness, the law is too much, so too much to be aloof, and for that reason we also had to consider better and clearer regulation of provisions on this area. The Nature Protection Act aims to ensure the implementation of protection in protected areas, to ensure the protection of plant and animal species and to ensure the protection of especially valuable minerals and fossils. I must point out here that according to the applicable Law, when reading it, it is felt that all nature wants to be protected as a whole, which cannot possibly be the object of this Law, but it is necessary to protect those natural values that are established as such and put under protection under such a foundation of the Law. In the light of the Law itself, you have information on currently protected areas in the Republic of Croatia, with the conclusion that the current almost 10% protected area does not represent a maximum protection in general, that preparations for the protection of certain new areas are under way and that the Law on endangered plant and animal property provides for appropriate solutions that can be and will recognise that we are the good solutions that stem from European standards in the same form. This law is very complex, because it requires compliance with a large number of European Union directives and for this reason it is therefore, although envisaged, to comply with European legislation, I propose that it be implemented in two readings. At the same time, I would like to say that this Law creates assumptions for the integration of protection measures and sustainable use of nature with all relevant sectoral and cross-sectoral regulations. Here we mean the laws on forests, waters, agricultural land, hunting, freshwater fishing, sea fishing, etc. Given that in protected areas, especially those not in the strict protection regime, the possibility of continued lordships and sustainable use of resources in the protected area should be ensured in these areas. Since it's about first reading, I wouldn't be able to take any further notice. And for any questions in the debate, I'll try to answer them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28533	Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect allegation, the respected representative Marin Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28534	It's an incorrect assumption that the old law is illogical. This proposal is illogical because, let's say, it takes away the park forest Marijan city in Split and gives again into the jurisdiction of the county, it is that contribution that local self-government itself decides what is in its territory. Thus Split does not decide either on the Split Riviera or on Marijan, it is now given to the state, the county. And that's not even a little logical. It's illogical, unnatural and against everything we stand for when we talk broadly and longly about how we want local self-government to strengthen that people living in that area decide the things that are in their area. This is what we're moving away from, i.e. We distance people from what is called a decision on what is near them and what they have the most feelings for. For this park forest, Marijan Split has given the city before, it will give tomorrow, it gives now and not the county, not the state.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28535	Nothing against Split,... Hajduka. Marian can't be taken. Does the rapporteurs of the Committee on Legislative Affairs, European Integration, Space and Environmental Protection, Agriculture and Forestry want? Rapporteur of the Committee on Spatial Planning and Environmental Protection, respected representative Marko Širac.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28536	Thank you, Mr. President. The proposed law has been examined by the Committee on Spatial Planning and Environmental Protection on the basis of its competence as set out in Article 83. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament as a parent working body. At the meeting of the Committee other than the proposing representatives, representatives of the Co-ordination of the Speleological Associations of the Republic of Croatia were present, which also submitted written observations and proposals to the text of the draft law under consideration. In the opening statement, the applicant's representative explained the reasons for the submission of the new draft law. It is estimated that the current law on nature protection is now unsuitable and inconclusive. The proposed law, among other things, leaves out provisions on genetically modified organisms as will be governed by a special law. The debate sets out the following opinions, comments and proposals. Article 7 defining the concepts of governance in this law and so that, in point 12. oedema, it is necessary to reshape it because it is not a property of origin. In points 17 and 52, the question is whether it is necessary to define the terms of exports and imports in particular as proposed the introduction or presentation of values in relation to the customs territory of the Republic of Croatia. In point 21 of the infringement, it is not clearly defined, in particular the expression of water and carbonic rocks. In point 47, the concept of columns should be recast in such a way that the column is a means of retaining and catching animals that prevents them from moving freely. The following is missing from the definition of genetic material referred to in Article 62. Article 20 concerning protected minerals and fossils in paragraph 3 is not clear whether all minerals and fossils are owned by the Republic of Croatia or only protected minerals and fossils. In paragraph 4, it is not appropriate to destroy the term because it is a question of what would be a valid reason, i.e. a dominant public interest in destruction. In Articles 47 and 48, it is clear that only protected speleological objects are involved. In Article 23(1), point (a) is replaced by the following: In Article 76(5) beyond the words of a public institution, it is necessary to add words that are a public institution. Article 95 prohibits the use of any means of catching and killing protected animals, so it is unnecessary to list which are specifically prohibited. In Article 112, which regulates the first purchase right in paragraph 4, it is necessary to prescribe that the owner may sell the property under the same or more favourable conditions than those referred to in the offer. In Article 116(5), it is necessary to specify more precisely the percentage of ownership of the Republic of Croatia in which cases the legal person does not have the right to compensation for damages. Article 137(2) provides for only the jurisdiction of the concession ministry for certain protected natural values and asks the question of who is responsible for the award of concessions for unremarked protected areas, for example the forest park. In Article 153, paragraph 1 of the text on which it decides to replace the Parliament with the following text to be submitted to the Assembly for acceptance. In paragraph 3, indicate the name of the advice correctly. In Article 174(3), it would be questionable to provide for a framework profession for the head supervisor, such as the Faculty of Natural Sciences. An clarification of Article 188 has been requested, setting out the procedure for issuing an infringement order or a mandate. The transitional and final provisions need to address the issue of further status of public institutions for the management of protected nature established by cities under the existing law. In the full text of the draft law, for example in Articles 19, 27, 60, 95, 13 and 157, calls for the implementation of international contracts should be set out equally. It is not right to use the text of an international contract confirmed by the Republic of Croatia because it does not mean that it is the same in force. The Committee concluded that the written proposals of the Speleological Associations would be submitted directly to the expert holder of the final proposal of this law. After the discussion, the committee unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament to draw the next conclusion. Proposal for a Nature Protection Act is hereby adopted. Secondly, all objections, proposals and opinions are addressed to the applicant in order to prepare a final draft of the law. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28537	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. Dear Representative Vladimir Kurečić, Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Union. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28538	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, honourable representatives of the government, respected colleagues and fellow MPs! In front of us is the Proposal for a Law on the Protection of Nature in the First Reading, an extremely important law that shows the level of our consciousness and concern for nature. So, to paraphrasise the famous saying of what we borrowed from our children and not just about what we inherited from our fathers. As with similar cases of concern for nature protection is a civilizational reach and certainly its level is administratively proportional to the degree of development of a society. The legislative and legal tradition in the field of nature protection in Croatian spaces has existed for hundreds of years and recently, so on. of 1999 Croatia is particularly active in the field of international cooperation in the protection of nature and has joined international agreements in the field of nature protection that are in force or signed by those who are yet to enter into force. Thus, we are party to the following international agreements of the Convention on the Protection of World Cultural and Natural Heritage, the Convention on Wetlands, the Convention on the Protection of the Mediterranean Sea against Contaminants, the Convention on Biological Variety, the Convention on the Protection of Migration Species of Wildlife, the Convention on the Protection of European Wildlifes, the Convention on International Trade of Threatened Species, the Convention on European Areas and the Convention on the Access of Information, the participation of the public in the decision-making and access of justice in the environment. In the context of the approximation of the European Union, the aim of nature protection policy is to meet the preconditions for meeting the international obligations provided for by the European Union but not primarily for the sake of the European Union, but first and foremost for our own sake, because thank God Croatia still has a lot to protect. Because, compared to most European countries, Croatia stands out by the diversity and richness of environmental systems and habitats. Croatia is characterized by a high degree of conservation of nature. The anthropogenic habitats developed by human action are not dominant as is the case in many European countries. The diversity of native varieties and breeds, and their recording and preservation, represent a genetic container for the potential improvement of the properties of breeds. Some protected parts of the nature of the Republic of Croatia also enjoy international legal protection as extremely valuable natural areas such as National park Plitvice Lakes, Nature Parks Kopački rit and Lonjsko polje, ornithological reserve Black Youth and in UNESCO's international network of biosphere reserves are also the lower flow of Neretva and Velebit mountains. The total area of all protected parts of nature in the Republic of Croatia is 9.83% of the national territory and by implementation of the Spatial Planning Programme and the strategy and action plan for the protection of biological and landscape diversity i.e. With the announcement of new nature parks, around 14% of state territory will be protected, which will be set for the Republic of Croatia in the European countries with temporary protection of nature. In addition, about 780 species of plants, mushrooms and animals as well as all wild species in national parks, rough and special reserves and all cave fauna are protected in the Republic of Croatia. Croatia ranks in the first few European Union countries, given the rich biodiversity but also at the bottom at the stage of flora, microflores and fauna research, which speaks of the necessity of establishing and developing a systematic research of imonitoring. Furthermore, in European terms, the state of the forest in the Republic of Croatia is well and even 95% of the forest according to some data has a natural composition and forest surfaces have not been reduced for a very long time. Also, given its natural characteristics, the area of debris represents an exceptional value not only in European but also in global proportions. In the Republic of Croatia, vast natural swamp areas in river valleys are preserved, which is a huge value of biological and landscape diversity, especially at Western and Central Europe level. The Croatian coast, coastal mountains and islands stand out with many plant and animal endens and are particularly sensitive ecological units. My colleagues and colleagues, this few data discusses the richness and diversity of nature in the Republic of Croatia and relatively good conservation at European level is due primarily to economic situation and similar causes in the past. However, there is still no way to talk about systematic care for the overall biodiversity and state of nature. That is why a precise and effective legislative regulation is needed to protect and protect what we still have and, as I said in the introduction, according to the information I have provided unlike others, we have much more to protect. The law we are discussing today regulates the issue of protection and preservation of protected natural values, the process of declaring protected natural values, the prevention of the area, the register of protected natural values, the implementation of protection and conservation of nature, the protection of environmental systems and networks, the incentive measures for conservation, the management of protected areas, the protection and conservation of wild species, the keeping of breeding and trade in wild species, the restriction on legal traffic, the use of natural goods, the use of protection measures, the access to information, the promotion of education and education in the protection of nature, as well as the supervision and criminal provisions. This Proposal for a Law addresses all the issues raised by international agreements, in particular the Convention on Biodiversity, and the Directive, the regulations and protocols of the European Union. It is therefore the level or standards which apply in Europe, and the safeguard measures prescribed will ensure the conditions for the reasonable use of natural resources on the principle of sustainability and for the benefit of future generations. Here it should be said that the existing Law on Nature Protection of 2003 is a good basis for this proposal but the current Law should also be amended because it requires too many sublegal acts which are too complicated for legal solutions, especially in implementation. Furthermore, in the proposal for a new law, today's one, which we are discussing today, there are no provisions concerning GMOs, genetically modified organisms. In the existing or applicable law, Article 49 regulates this problem. This problem will be regulated by a completely new law which, given the sensitivity of the topic, should be supported. However, here I would like to stress that it is unusually important to adopt at the same time this new Nature Protection Act as well as the new GMO law so that we do not have a legal hole in the meantime. The proposal for a new law, therefore, which we are discussing today in the first reading is good but it is good to go to the second reading because this proposal will certainly be able to improve. Until the second reading, i.e. until the final proposal and adoption, it will be possible to include in the debate all professionals or lobbyists who have so far not to find as high-quality solutions as possible to some doubts related to for example: hiring expert staff in state administration offices in district self-government units where it is not available so far. Other related to the process of declaring protected natural values. Furthermore, concerns related to the annual protection service, etc., protected areas. Fourthly, related to direct surveillance in all protected areas, further, regarding the question of whether an individual protected area should be subject to this Act, such as this. in Article 200, point (a) is replaced by the following: Furthermore, in Article 201, I think it is necessary to cut deadlines in order to really implement and revive the Law as soon as possible. Also related to the observations of certain associations, e.g. Croatian Speedeological Union, etc., etc. But colleagues and colleagues are all in the best way to get a very good law and for this reason the Croatian Democratic Community Club supports the proposal for this law on nature protection. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28539	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HSS Club, Mr. Representative Zeljko Ledinski. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28540	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, the honorary representatives of the Ministry. Let me tell you a few words about the proposal for a law on nature protection here in the first reading. We at the HSS Club estimate that it is necessary to pass a new law like this because already in the last debate of the previous law, we have advocated that the existing three components would be good to separate what I believe will now be corrected. But when we talk about protected areas of biodiversity, we also need to say that today we already have almost 10% of the surfaces that are protected, that there are still about 5% more surfaces planned to protect. When we add that we still have 9% of the surfaces that are unreachable because of the minimality, then we must say that we are already somewhere on the epo surfaces that are protected on the European average. In addition, data should also be added that today we have forests in such a state that are preserved that speak to the international FSC certificate that with forests lords according to strict environmental, economic and social standards and thus, with 95% of the nature of these forests, we can conclude that we have even more than what Europe is looking for today by laws that are good for us and that in that part we also need to find a certain environment between what needs to be protected and as far as the economic part is concerned. In that part, the goal certainly is not to stop the development of the economy but is to enable, with, in these drastic areas, masters with certain postulates of nature protection, but also to achieve a certain economic development because today when we talk about national parks in, for example, Austria, then we can say that in them the lords said that there is far more going on in them than in ours what I think we should agree not only with the adoption of laws but also with other sublegal acts that allow these laws to continue to regulate the whole matter further with sublegal acts that can then and that very meaning of the law significantly change. What am I saying that for? In past laws on the protection of nature, we had certain sublaws that were subsequently passed in resolute ministries that had significantly changed the meaning of the law so that we had, say, rules on internal order that were in a lot older than the law itself. I think in this case and in this first reading, I would like to point out that in the future, we should not allow such laws to be put into practice so that they allow for the additional adoption of a large number of sublegal acts that will regulate that matter. And then, by doing so, we lower our ability to change the whole meaning of the law and basically get something different from the law. I can list a whole series of examples from practice, and that's what the secretary of state thinks he knows well, right, and colleagues from the ministry where we had a whole series of problems afterwards. Since I'm saying that in our forestry industry where there were positive words here today we've always had and learned forever in Zagreb's forest school that we have to secure... management. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is now popularly called sustainable development. In that part, then, what we have today is certain that we must know and present to the world and in the other part provide and benefit from it through one economic development. When we talk about this, HSS certainly sees our country as an opportunity to develop eco-agricultural and eco-tourism, and in that part, we must certainly ensure that this part of the economy is implemented in that part of the protected areas, and in that part we expect that we do not enter into a position to prevent us from doing anything but to enable economic development through the use of the development of the economy in particular those rural areas. The implementation of this Act is conditional, it is conditional upon the adoption of many European norms and the law itself, and it is foreseen in this and the first reading. We can conclude and clearly need to comply with European laws. But I still want to point out that we've left ourselves plenty of space to further define things later. Defining these sublegal acts seems to me to be the biggest problem in this bill as well as in the past, as well as in those before, because we really left too many opportunities for someone to define them after their regulation. When I talk about it here, I have to say as a forester here that we've had the most problems in the past, precisely because these sublegal acts didn't respect some existing acts and disagreements within the existing ministries, so the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry then and the Ministry of Environmental Protection. It is good that these articles are defined in this Law in such a way as to seek the consent of the Resolute Ministry when it is a fundamental phenomenon of the forest, that the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry and the Water Economy is also... water also includes giving certain consent. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is also good that, in all these laws, we have specifically introduced the Law on the Protection of Nature to the public so that the public is aware that it can act through certain institutions, and here I personally want to commend the Assembly of Journalists for the environment that has been very good at monitoring and monitoring and today exactly the segments of nature protection and its actions. I think it's a good thing that we have these sections and that we support them in their work. When it comes to the harmonisation of some legal acts, I would like to point out certain articles that should be a little bit more agreeable to the article, for example. In Article 23, we should add another point that we should speak, when we speak in, about an influential area, then we cannot just act in such a way as to say an influential area is such, and at the same time not to seek the consent of those who rule in that influential area but until then and who will suffer the damage caused by the declaration of a new protected area. I think that's where we need to get in line with the management users. Also in Articles 27, 28 and 29, it is said that the expert commission on the proposal of the Ministry, on the proposal of the State Institute, is making certain rules, I think it is necessary to say otherwise. The Ministry shall, at the request of the Expert Committee or of the State Office, adopt certain acts in those articles or shall also mean in the article 27, 28 and 29. Furthermore, when we speak in Article 39, it is also necessary to talk about the compensation paid in favour of the state budget for those areas where the economic activity is being lost, then I think it is necessary to say that the beneficiary of that area which is lost due to the declaration of the protected area should receive that money. Because if that money goes into the state budget, it certainly won't be for the possibility of any kind of reproduction or development. They can give a concrete example of Croatian forests. If we declare an area protected, then there will be no more management options in that part, and then Croatian forests, I don't know water or any other subject who currently rules it will lose to it. At the same time, we will not allow one more quality development, an increase in biodiversity or something else on the other part if these funds go into the budget it will re-design for something else. Or can I give an example of why, for example, we are left without large forest surfaces? Let's say by building a highway to Split we're left with 15 thousand acres of surface under the forest. No one has to question the construction of the highway whether, but I'm also asking why part of the resources that should be provided to create a different area under the forest and not to lose it in that part is not allowed out of the budget then for expanded and biological reproduction. Likewise, when we speak further in Article 42, we suggest that when it comes to other specific laws, and when it comes to the basic phenomenon of the forest, what is the special law, the Law on the Forests and other specific regulations? I think we need to specify that explicit or when we talk about the Water Act, then we know what law it is, not to say some other special law when it's precisely defined what law it is. Furthermore, when we talk about the same thing in Article 42, I think it is necessary to add another item that would define Articles 4 and 5 for those areas where management plans are already in line with the conditions of nature protection. I don't think they should be re-harmonised then, especially because they were attended by representatives of the resolution ministry. And they've been brought in now. And this law turns out that we need to get back together. I think it can then be stated in such a way that there is no need then, but where it is harmonised. Also when it comes to the ecological network, then we think that the ecological network should work out a clear establishment. The Ministry of Resort Agriculture and Forestry and Water Economy and the Resort Ministry for Environmental Protection of Nature. That's how I think it should be defined. Also when it means we're talking about a management plan for protected buildings where the basic phenomenon of the forest is. Then the board of directors of the public institution adopts a management plan, yet in agreement should be the ministry of agriculture and forestry, a resolute nature protection ministry, not just the ministry. I think we're here in a few of those items even though we've installed most of it, but we may have missed all those items accidentally. But it is illogical for me to know that in some national parks it is remembered by the regulations of the parks today more forests than it was cut down when Croatian forests ruled that area. On the idea of droughts. And at the same time, the Resort Ministry of Forestry has absolutely no ability to control or influence it. I think in that part we have to accept that where there is a fundamental phenomenon of the forest, then the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry must have an impact on that. Not only does the Ministry of Environmental Protection rule with it. And also when speaking about it, I can give an example that we have had cases of wood being sold from national parks at a lower price than it was the price of Croatian forests which is the official price list in Croatia. Therefore, the ministry had the possibility of the impact of forestry for sure to prevent that from happening. And only after the interventions were we able to prevent this unfair competition. Since here's the time running out so I don't have to repay it. I'd say at the end of the day. The Croatian Peasant Party appreciates the need to pass this new law in this process means not only an emergency procedure but at least two readings. And in this way we pray that for a second reading of this remark of our document, because we believe that constructively with them we have contributed to getting a better quality law on nature protection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28541	Thank you very much. Now we'll interrupt at 5:00, so in five minutes, we'll continue. Please, if he doesn't have the keys to get them. Here you can sign up for services. Here we go in five minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28542	Ladies and gentlemen, we are going back to the debate on the Nature Protection Act. It's time for the Honorable Representative Drago Prgomett. I'd like the esteemed Vice President Milinovic to sit down for this seat.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28543	Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28544	Your Honor, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28545	I ask you to allow counsel Prgomett to present his debate. It's not a break. Dear Representative Drago Prgomet, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28546	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State and my colleagues, I will accept the request and the motion of President of the Parliament in view of the scope of the points that are ahead of us to end this week, or next week. So only in the conclusion of my debate will I actually welcome and support the debate that Kurecic, on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community, made. Finally, I accept this law, and I believe that I will look at the topic that is of great benefit to the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28547	The word has a distinguished representative, Ingrid Antičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28548	Dear Vice President, Secretary of State with fellow colleagues and colleagues. In this proposal for a law on the protection of nature, I would only limit myself to the restriction on this head in the excess of the law relating to restrictions on legal traffic. These include the exemption and restriction of ownership rights and the compensation of damages. It is quite one reasonable intention of the government to try to limit legal traffic within the national park of nature parks of a strict or special reserve. That is, to establish such a mechanism that this protection is also effective. However, the burden on which that protection falls remains a little questionable. Because if the government and the government have a serious will to protect exactly the creative park and the nature park and the reserves there, it seems that they should both be more powerful and their own engagement, that means by means of their own means in that sense and more powerfully. For example, in the case of the right of first purchase, it seems that nothing is disputed that the real estate owner who owns the property within the national park of a strict or special reserve if he intends to sell that property, first he is obliged to offer under the same conditions, to the Republic of Croatia, or if these properties are located in other protected areas, then only to contact the county. Now comes a great illogicality in fact and our state administrations, which then restricts that deadline to extend that possible time limit where otherwise under the general administrative law and by its procedure, that deadline is 30 days. Otherwise, in the event that the administration deafens then the famous review of the silence of the administration occurs. But here, the deadline is not 30 days, it's really inconsistencies for 90 days. That's three months, I don't think that's appropriate the speed and way of life that today's citizens live. Therefore, it is quite enough 30 days, which would be acceptable for the Republic of Croatia itself to declare whether to buy those properties or not. Same for local self-government units. I say this 30-day deadline of 90 days is completely inappropriate. But to come dangers like with all these laws where there is the possibility of first buying that it is the government that does not normally do so. So the question now is the implementation of this law in which cases, i.e. the extent to which the state will react. Or this right over there is just one mere obligation just enough to create an illusion of concern. But we'll see in fact we can't already guess, we'll see if the practice in this sense goes that the state, or the units of local self-government, but primarily the Republic of Croatia will be there in the service of protection and it's in the interest to sew up and thus own these properties within the national park, nature park, a strict or special reserve. It further seems to me in this paragraph 4 of the same provision bearing the name, whether it is the first time that the Republic of Croatia is sufficient, so within that specific deadline that I said was inappropriate for 90 days, to accept that offer. I think it is unacceptable, in that time, that it should pay the purchase price, because what life will show, and even more recently, irrefutable facts show that the state is still very oblivious in failing to meet its own obligations, that it is, if we see it for years and so on today, an obsessing panic, that it accepts obligations that it does not meet. Thus, the question arises here what will happen to those situations where she formally accepted the offer, but does not pay the purchase price. What will be left for the owner then, rather than to sue the state, then to argue needlessly and long-term. In order to contain it, I think it's a simple provision that simply within that deadline or in this shorter period that I propose to pay the offered purchase price. We also see that the state wants in some way to prevent simulated legal transactions that would be held here under the name of a donation contract, and in fact, a real contract, the real dissimulated contract, would be the right to purchase. It is perfectly acceptable that the state, if it could prove that it has the right to disprove the legal work. But what about true gifts? What about some other legal stuff? True, there is only talk here about first purchase, i.e. buying, but then it is not only the only way to protect against legal traffic, i.e. from inability or restrictions on legal traffic only in terms of purchase, because there are other ways very much alike with the same level of legal basis for obtaining property rights. The law does not say anything, it is then assumed that it is limited only to purchase while it is free to dispose of these properties within that protected area by other legal transactions. Whether it was really a proposal or not, let's think about it ourselves. Article 113 causes a major concern, where it is precisely foreign legal and natural persons that prevents the acquisition of property rights in the property located in this area. And we can kind of accept that even though there's a limit here that's probably not just by, like, so far, in terms of reciprocity, but it's said here and something wider, this is still one big trap at the end, unless the international contract is defined differently. Okay, we can accept that, too. But what about the right to inherit? We know that in our islands and Dalmatia there are old people who have children of their own, but who are not Croatian citizens, and it is not a very negligible number, who have lost Croatian citizenship, who have given up Croatian citizenship, to get other citizenship and they simply will not be here, will be said in this way, they will not be able to inherit their parents. What about these children who support their parents, is any legal work here disabled? Therefore, I think that this provision, however good as it may be, will not have its real effects, because exactly the inability or possibility to act in a different way, will play this norm in that good intention, and on the other hand, the restriction that is inadmissible under the Law of Inheritance where it is nowhere, so it is necessary to change then the Law of Inheritance which has completely solved this matter, and here we see something that the same matter is solved in a different way. Of course, this will also create major problems in practice, as two laws will appear before courts with the same rank. What law do you apply? And it again creates one legal uncertainty, where in the same situation it can be overcome by the Law of Inheritance, and somewhere in this Law. Therefore, we must take into account first of all, not only the compliance of our standards with European Union standards, which is also very speculative and questionable here, but first of all we must take into account the harmonisation of our own laws, and it seems to me that we have once again an old intention and a habit of passing laws that are mutually contradictory. This should not be done for our own sake, because I say, nothing leads to any more legal uncertainty than this when the same matter is solved in different laws in a completely opposite way. And it seems to me here at the expense of the damage that great restrictions are placed on the owners and that they are somehow forced to protect the special property, and that the state is weakly responding. It also reacts poorly in terms of compensation for damages, and we can see later on in the case of righteous achievement. For example, the injured party has the right to compensation for damages of real damage, but later on in that same norm in paragraph 5, it is said that the damage will nevertheless be that the assessment of the expert is, or how the administrative body or body settles with the injured party itself. If the first paragraph norm is determined to have to pay real damage, then in these other items it should only be worked out, not in fact disabling in some way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28549	Thank you. The word has the esteemed representative Joseph Leko.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28550	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Gentlemen of the government, colleagues and fellow MPs. What motivated me to sign up to say a few sentences about the Nature Protection Act? Two facts. It seems to me that Croatia has a comparative advantage compared to the countries of the European Union where we want to be full members in a geographical position, this God has given us both nature and in the ecological nature of the country, i.e. the non-pollution of nature in the Republic of Croatia. What's the other problem with this situation? Under the syntagma of sustainable development, Croatia cannot protect its nature, its comparative advantage, its wealth, and it can freeze development. Why? It is simply that Croatia has 310,000 people now unemployed. So under this syntagm of sustainable development, it seems to me that it is more important to create an economic plan and strategy for the economic development of the Republic of Croatia, then a detailed spatial and urban plan of the Republic of Croatia with well-known direction of development related to the employment of the population and citizens of the Republic of Croatia and the preservation of these values that I have initially said as a comparative advantage. Of course, it should not be ignored that these 207 articles of the Law in the first reading, the Nature Protection Act indeed on, could be said, the normative plan affects the essence of things when it comes to formal requirements for nature protection. But we know that we have a disaster, we have a problem with land books, with property. We have a problem with the development of industry or what we already have, and we do not have a precise bar at national level for the country's strategic development in this regard. That is why I think it is very important, apart from the laws already passed, such as the Law on the Forest, and I think it should be complemented, the Law on Spatial Planning, the Law on Urbanism and the Protection of Nature and the Wholes of Urbanities, to create a strategy for the development of the country in a shorter period and for a longer period, so that we know where the country will develop in the interest of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia so that we can preserve what is the most valuable, unpolluted soil or perhaps even more valuable, clean water. Perhaps during the period ahead of us, Croatia will be able to charge this comparative advantage of clean and healthy water without jeopardizing the values of this law. Perhaps the whole of Europe will help us protect water as a strategic value for the future. Another dimension, recently said by counterpart Vujic, Croatia has advantages in cultural heritage, cultural goods not only of natural resources, so it would be very important in the context of urbanism and spatial planning to protect and such cultural units or cultural values that Croatia will certainly have a comparative advantage in European frameworks. In this law, I did not particularly see the pointed protection of the sea and the coast. It is a rare situation with which few countries can be raised, and legal protection is not enough but enough to rebuild the entire system of employment and settlement or sustainable development of the island. I have in front of me a scientific work of the local community and islands related to urbanism and spatial planning, the author himself says that on our islands we should protect the traditional culture of building space and objects, and all of us here have talked about concreteisation or as it is called, I think it's recently come up with spatial plans and urban plans for all the islands and coasts as it was foreseen in the coastal development strategy in the last term I think we brought in 2003. So the bill itself affects the essence of things, but it is only at the level of norm, not at the level of essential changes and essential sustainable development planning. I support the law, but I expect the government to prepare a strategy for development, development strategy, spatial plan and urban plans very quickly. This would complete the country's picture and concern for nature, and this would lead to a better entry and easier entry into the European Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28551	Thank you. The word has a esteemed representative, Nikola Sopčić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28552	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. I support the proposal of this law, the Nature Protection Act in the first reading, so allow me just a few sentences. All of us pride ourselves on the beauty and diversity of Croatian flora and fauna and the purpose and purpose of this bill is to ensure that this beauty is preserved, protected and recorded through new localities in any way we already have through various types of protection protected around almost 10% of the area of state territory. This bill seeks to ensure their protection system for their permanent preservation in order to prevent any devastation. But let me try to point out just maybe on or on a few remarks. So when regulating the possibility of exorcism in the protected area, I would like to mention one particular case that we have had. There is a possibility of expropriation here, but perhaps you should also see the possibility of expropriation to access such a site. Because we had a specific cave in our area, which was arranged for visitors, but the only possible access to it was through private property, private land and practically impossible to reach an agreement with the landowner, so I think that this case should also provide for the possibility of expropriation. It would also point to Article 196 in the case of infringement provisions providing for fines ranging from 15 to 25 thousand kuna, as well as for the destruction of cave jewelry, which is a lasting damage that cannot be fixed, and in the preceding Article 195, where fines of 25 and up to 200 thousand kuna are provided for often less possible damage, and I believe that this should be better coordinated, and this has been warned by representatives of the Speleological Alliance on the Committee on Spatial Planning. However, I consider the proposal of the Nature Protection Act to be of high quality and support for its adoption. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28553	Thank you. The word has a distinguished representative, Jagoda Martic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28554	Dear Vice President, Secretary of State, members of the government, colleagues and colleagues. As the proposer himself said in the opening part, Croatia as a small country in Europe stands out for the diversity of environmental systems and habitats. This wealth is conditioned by the position of Croatia at the crossroads of several biogeographical regions, divorce by relief, geological, pedological, hydrological and climate opportunities. Croatia is further characterized by a high degree of conservation of nature and it is a huge potential and a huge wealth that we are obliged to preserve and preserve for all future generations. That's exactly what we're trying to achieve with this bill of law that's ahead of us. Since the matter subject to this law is in itself extremely significant, complex and sensitive, it is clear that the law itself, as the proposer said in his opening address, is layered and complex. That's why I'm only going to look back on one segment in my presentation. The proposal also highlights the needs of monitoring, i.e. systematic monitoring and developments in nature, as only on the basis of such knowledge can certain measures be acted properly and timelyly. We have both institutions and personnel to perform these kind of actions, but sometimes some research can't be done for a banal reason like the lack of adequate equipment, so here's an example. Article 52 states that activities at sea and undersea must not be destroyed or threatened by marine habitats. In paragraph 2, it further states, the conservation of the biodiversity of the sea, the implementation of measures for the conservation of cell types in a favourable state and measures for the conservation of wildlife. We all know that ships, regardless of their size, are coated with anti-vegetative colors, means colors that actually prevent the accumulation of various marine organisms at the bottom of the ships. These colors have different active components in their composition that actually act as poisons on marine organisms, and one of these components that has been used very much because of its effectiveness is tributyl tin. However, it was also very fast to learn that it is one of the most toxic compounds that touches the sea, that is, human or human activity. As a result, many European countries have, in their own legislation, either by legal provisions or by completely or partially prohibiting the use of anti-vegetative paints with tributyl tin in their composition. What's going on with Croatia? In Croatia these same ships come, we know that we have very many nautical ports, that we have very many ships, which not only sail over summer, but are also kept on the links and there are also all these activities that are also done, so they are coated with paint. However, Croatia has virtually no legal restriction, there is no legal ban on the use of these colors. And for what? Because we don't even know what the situation in the Croatian Adriatic is, because there is not a single laboratory in all of Croatia that has adequate equipment in order to be able to examine the situation, it means that we can even get to the zero state we have in the Adriatic, and that is why adequate legislation can be adopted. So that's just one example I wanted to say that sometimes with all the good wishes and good intentions, sometimes it's clean because of the banal reason we can't actually improve the management and operation in nature by law. Then, the law also lays down inspection controls, infringements, which is all very expensive, of course, because without it the law would not be effective and it would not be effective as it should be, but we also witness that, in addition to all these measures, in nature often behavioral, we behave poorly, so we witness, so when we are already talking about the coast and the situation when we have the overrun of huge amounts of land, gravel, what happens as a result of increased construction, it even happens sometimes under blessing, so to say to the leaders of certain municipalities and cities, and to boast that they will make a better Gold War than the existing Gold War, and no one thinks what happens in the submarine. Divers engaged in sports diving over the summer say that in those places life actually died, or down the sea is dead and that's one big problem. So something that's actually happening in front of our eyes, and often the inspections are impossible, and especially what happens most during the weekend, means on Saturdays and Sundays when inspection services don't work. And that is why I would give a special emphasis on what I propose in the law, to promote the education and education of nature protection, so that in fact the public systematically and systematically from the earliest legs can be raised so that they can protect nature, that they can appreciate nature, because that is the only way we will actually create generations that will really treat this nature as something that God has given them and something and what is greatest, one of Croatia's greatest treasures and values. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28555	Thank you. The word has a distinguished representative, Mato Šimac.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28556	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, gentlemen from the government, colleagues and colleagues. Well, as the basis of this debate, I will stress only the most important. Protecting, maintaining and promoting protected parts of nature is not a particular right but a living and civilizational need and therefore everyone's obligation, which is why everything is regulated by special and other laws. Although the Nature Protection Act does not exclude the application of other laws, the definition of management of protected parts of nature has as a consequence to public institutions by their title, statute, and the competent ministry of rules on internal order, remove and restrict the jurisdiction of Croatian forests in forest management and forest land within the border of protected parts of nature. The Republic of Croatia is an example of many countries in Europe and the world for its ecological preservation of its territory. Of the total area under forests over 90% grew to natural forests and a large percentage of areas under natural grass and marsh habitats, culture and plantation of soft leaves that have been raised for the purpose of mimicling the natural suxession of the low-lying ingredients of jasen and oak gradually transform into natural ingredients according to the ecological-economic types. The participation of natural habitats in the total area of the country has been significantly increased during the Homeland War due to the absence of economic activities particularly of war and livestock. It is assumed that hundreds of thousands of hectares of agricultural land and pastures of nature are inhabited by grass and forest ingredients throughout the country, especially in Podunavlje, Banovina, Kordun, Lici, Gorski Kotar and Dalmatia. The experience so far clearly shows that a particularly protected part of nature often comes in a more unfavourable state of protection by means of an act declaring protection, because it is not followed by appropriate financial means, and by declaring that it is sufficient for our opportunities to be protected. This way of protection has a direct impact on both the state and the development of hunting, we stress that hunting management and systematic care about the cultivation and protection of game and other animal species has so far required a lot of physical work and material and financial resources. As counterpart Ledinski said, the current national forest policy and strategy stresses the need to review and regulate the possibilities for protected nature facilities where the basic phenomenon is managed by the forest company. Why did I say that? We're aware of the fact that we have problems in the field. I was one of the people who started setting up the Park of Nature Papuk and after, it means from 98. In 99, these five, six years we are aware of the problems arising from the field between the Croatian Forests and the public institution itself. I think this is a law-making opportunity to fix what we're aware is not good. So I suggest, Mr. Secretary of State, that from Article 72 to Articles 116 to 121, 122 to 126, small changes or additions to correct all that we are aware of is not good on the ground. I think we should take advantage of the opportunity and think that both Croatian forests and public parks of nature will be grateful. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28557	Thank you. Replica, the esteemed representative Vujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28558	It may not be the most important whether we got it wrong or not, but it's important to highlight one aspect that I don't think has been clearly set up in this debate and even in some before. Here we need to come from the absolute priority of this law as well as from the parallel law on the protection of cultural goods compared to other laws. We can't first, say, bring, think about different plans regardless of the actual sizes we have in our heritage that are incomparable, and even most economically important than those plans that we're going to bring to the economy or something else. These are resources that cannot be discussed. You can't discuss whether it's worth it for you to give the rest of the body a finger, I mean, I don't know a living body for this or that purpose, so you'll get the means to do it, so I think you'll have a great prosthesis, so I think you'll think you'll do better than that. I very much support the adoption of this law, I think it's on a good path and it's on a good one before, and I think that, in fact, it needs to sharpen those elements that threaten to be possible, and that's when it comes to extorting itself that it might not possibly be stolen so that by some other purchase traffic, let's say by mortgages, it's owned by ownership or inheritance, that it can be alienated in some way, etc. I support the very course of this law that gives priority to this law in relation to everything that could lead to suspicion of the protection of cultural and natural heritage, and especially to say that it comes into the power of something that should only be placed under the authority and that is the thoughts of the Croatian forest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28559	The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Mato Šimac.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28560	Well, I don't think we understand each other. What I said does not mean that it will allow Croatian forests to devastate or as you said you give a finger and then remember that we have prosthetics. If we take what the forests are like in Europe, I have set an example that they have 10% natural ingredients of the forest, unlike those of us who have 90%, which is exactly what Croatian forests and foresters have preserved. Who kept it until we had a park of nature and we didn't have everything else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28561	Thank you. The word has a distinguished representative, Marijan Bekavac.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28562	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State, representatives of the ministry, colleagues and colleagues! In front of us today is the first reading of the debate on the Nature Protection Act. It's a very important law that bears the label P.Z.E. and harmonising the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with the legislation of the European Union in this area. The legislative tradition in Croatia regarding nature protection is more than a hundred years long and we are among the first countries in Europe with a normative system to protect natural heritage. The first laws in Croatia were the Law on the Protection of Birds in 1893 and the Law on the Protection of Caves in 1900, which speaks enough about early awareness in Croatia regarding nature conservation. As far as protected areas in the Republic of Croatia are concerned, about 9% of the state area is protected and 14% of the territory of the Republic of Croatia is under some form of protection and regulated by the Nature Protection Act. Croatia in terms of natural sights is a highly rich and diverse country. This claim is also supported by the spatial layout of two main spatial categories of protection of the nature of national parks and nature parks. They are equally represented in the coastal, mountainous and Pannonian parts of Croatia. So on the Croatian coast we have national parks Brijuni, Kornata and Mljet and Nature Park Telascic. On the contact of the coastal and mountainous Croatia, we have national parks Risnjak, North Velebit and Paklenic and nature parks Velebit, Učka and Biokovo. In particular, the Krka National Park needs one of the most beautiful examples of karst hydrography in the world. Our first Plitvice Lakes National Park cannot be bypassed in the continental part of Croatia, our only national park on the world list of UNESCO natural heritage. In the Pannonian part of Croatia, we have no national park but therefore we have parks of nature Kopački rit, Lonjsko polje, Medvednica, Papuk, Žumberak and Samoborsko Gorje. In addition to existing nature parks, this law suggests that nature parks become Neretva, Elafiti islands, Lastovo, Mrežnica, Lika Plješivica, Bjelolasica, Zrmanja, Krupa, Kupa and Hrvatska Zagorje. The Nature Protection Act proposes a very important provision that foreign legal or natural persons cannot acquire property rights in protected areas unless the international contract provides otherwise. The owner of the property in the protected area which he intends to sell is obliged to offer first to the state, county or city of Zagreb and to indicate the prices and conditions of sale and the state, county or city of Zagreb are required to demonstrate the offer within 90 days of receiving the offer. If the offer is not accepted within the prescribed time limit, the owner may sell the property on the terms of the offer. These two provisions on the acquisition of ownership in such valuable and protected works of Our beautiful obstacle are the sale of the most valuable thing Croatia has and I particularly welcome this. Compared to most European countries, Croatia stands out for the diversity of the ecological system and habitats, the great wealth and diversity of plants, mushrooms and animals, but the number of known species is more than double the number of suspected species. This points to a low degree of research of Croatian flora, micro flora and fauna and the necessity of establishing and developing systematic research and monitoring of biodiversity. I also need to stick to the establishment of a quality system for the protection of biodiversity and natural diversity so that the protection of nature and the environment is given an important place in the development of society and in state management. About 780 species of plants, mushrooms and animals of all wild species in national parks, strict and special reserves and all cave fauna are protected in Croatia. The proposed Nature Protection Act provides for fines for offenders. For example, the highest penalty is 500 thousand to million kuna for an operation or act that can cause destruction or any other significant or permanent damage in an ecologically important area. I hope that this extremely important law will be in its full capacity and that there will be an expression when, apart from the legal regulatory consciousness of man, there is such a level that there is no alternative to protecting nature. We need to be responsible for nature, cherish it and preserve it for those who come after us.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28563	Thank you. The word has a distinguished representative of Jagoda Maja Martincevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28564	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! Just for a little while. I would like to welcome the proposal of this Nature Protection Act and for me two basic reasons. One of them is that this law has also confirmed that I am pleased with the Committee on European Integration that this proposal of the Nature Protection Act is in line with the acquis of the European Union and fulfils the obligations set out in the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. It seems to me that this is one of those paths that we need to travel and thus get close to European Community standards. Another meaning to me, this bill has a motto on how to protect protected nature and what is not only nature but is heritage in some protected areas. This law should also have a special ethical meaning and ethical value because if it adopts measures that will at least partially prevent those ugly events and ugly images that we see very often on small screens, which are happening because of counterfeiting, for example, in protected areas, then the law may be able to teach some people how to deal with what needs to be served for a very, very long time. This law, which is compatible with nature protection in Europe, is complex, is very diverse in its provisions. I suppose the experts might still make their remarks. I would certainly point out that the protection measures that are evident in inspection and even in repressive measures such as fines can only contribute to the improvement of all that we must leave to our successors. I also agree that the provision on foreign legal or natural persons who cannot acquire property rights in a strict reserve, national park, special reservation, etc. Unless the international treaty otherwise sets it absolutely correct because it will stand in the way of selling out what is both our heritage and our future. And I only have one question on article 16 that belongs to the monument of park architecture and which says in the first indent: “The monument of park architecture is an artificially shaped area of perivion, botanic garden, arboretum, city park, wooded as well as other forms of garden and park design, i.e. an individual tree or group of trees that it has”, I am now withdrawing: “...greater aesthetic, stylish, artistic, cultural, historical, ecological or scientific value.” I miss the meaning of “greater” compared to “what”. There's no comparison and I really don't understand what that's about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28565	Thank you. The word has an esteemed representative, Marko Širac.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28566	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Nature is defined as a significant part of the environment within the meaning of this Act. overall biological and landscape diversity. The Republic of Croatia provides special protection to its nature and natural values on the principles of best world practice. The legislative tradition in the Republic of Croatia in the area of nature protection has already lasted over 100 years. This places us in line of the first countries in Europe with a normative system of nature protection, especially in the context of national parks and other protected parts of nature that enjoy international legal protection and are listed in the UNESCO World Heritage List, for example. like Plitvice National Park and Velebit Nature Park. The Republic of Croatia has signed 9 international agreements in the area of nature protection, and this obliges us to act very correctly and systematically towards our nature and our national good. For those of us working on these jobs and taking care of them, it is especially important to the Convention on the Protection of World Cultural Heritage and Nature, which was brought in Paris in 1972. A few words only about our current Law that was passed in 2003 as far as I know it and how much I could evaluate it it contains a series of provisions that are ineligible because it prescribes the obligation to adopt 60 sublegal acts and we know that so far a very small number has been adopted. In addition, keep the provisions on genetic organisms for here, for which we will pass another law and exclude it from the provisions of this Law. And in the implementing provisions of jurisdiction between individual bodies, there is no clear distinction. Therefore, and that we do not have to comply with the European fluid, the conditions for a new law have been established. The bill promoter in assessing the state of protected natural values in the Republic of Croatia points out that, thanks to its position in several biogenetic regions, the divorce of relief, geological, pedological, hydrological and climatic situations, the diversity of environmental systems and rich landscape diversity are highlighted. Compared with the state of the ecological systems of other European Union countries, the Republic of Croatia is characterised by a high degree of conservation of nature. So far, around 10% of state territory has been protected through 8 categories of spatial protection and individual plant and animal species. A total of 481 spatial objects were protected and another 30 spatial objects were declared in the process. So a total of 14% of state territory will be protected. In addition to protected areas, 780 species of plants, mushrooms and animals and all wild species that dwell in national parks, strict and special reserves and all cave fauna are protected. The diversity in relief, soil, water, plant cover of the afternoon but also in economic and historical circumstances resulted in local traditions of space use, which contributed to the extremely rich landscape of the Republic of Croatia. The legislator points out that this Law regulates the system of protection and full conservation of nature and its values, as well as all issues referred to by the international Treaties and Directives of the European Union, and in particular the Convention on Biological Divergence from Rio in 1992, which outlines a new concept of nature protection to preserve overall and landscape diversity and ensure the sustainable use of natural goods. Specific laws such as the Laws on Forests, Waters, Agricultural Land, freshwater and marine fisheries bring certain issues of nature protection closer together. This is a roof law for them, and therefore certain provisions in these laws will have to be brought into line with this Law, of course, with everything relating to nature protection. In the end, let me give a few more, I consider useful remarks concerning a certain provision of this Law. I'd say next. One general. I think it's very important. The responsibility of the Nature Protection Board and the Institute for Nature Protection at the Ministry of Culture are not clearly divided and intertwined, and it would be appropriate to consider the possibility of unifying those two bodies within the Ministry of Culture and Nature Protection. I would further point out that Article 9 needs to be reformed, it is clear that the provisions of this Act do not apply in the case of natural and other disasters and in the case of aggression against the Republic of Croatia. So you should make an explicit note of that. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. It would not be correct to keep other ministries and other competent authorities in the Republic of Croatia in order to carry out their tasks in order not to fulfil certain obligations prescribed by this Act. Article 46 of the rules on the management of natural resources in the karst area determines the possible impact of their use on the entire area of land. It is necessary to determine which authority determines that impact, it cannot remain an open question. In Article 52(2), it is necessary to determine who determines the biological minimum water, the use of water. Like water streams, big rivers and water on lakes. In paragraph 3 at the end of the sentence, add the words “to the quality prescribed by the central authority of the State Administration responsible for the protection of sea and water”. It's about cleaning up water that's being flushed into other water streams. There must be that drop quality... It must be that, that water drop quality determined by the act of another state body. In Article 71(2), at the end of the sentence, add the words “water”, in Article 77, paragraph 3 at the end of the first sentence of the word “in the profession” should be replaced by the words “in the affairs of nature protection”. It's not enough for someone to be professional. It also has to work for a certain time on nature protection matters in order to take on certain responsibilities. In Article 124, a new paragraph should be added setting out the period within which the prior consent is issued, it does not say so today. In paragraph 127, point 5 is replaced by the following: Mr. Vice President, this is what I'd end up with. I have other useful remarks, but I'm going to hand it over to the head of our ministry in writing. I would only point out that I support the adoption of this Law and that it is headed for another reading.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28567	Thank you. The word has a esteemed representative, Neven Mimica.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28568	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. I would only limit this debate to the part relating to one aspect of this Law, which is one of its smaller part that regulates the issue of ownership and availability of real estate in the area of protected natural values. In other parts of its part, this proposal for a law largely introduces clearer and more effective solutions for the protection and conservation of nature, which are on the trail of the basic provisions of the legal property of the European Union and of international contracts, but which is even more important on the good track for the protection of national interests in the maintenance of natural heritage. The proposal for this law in part of ownership does not, unfortunately, contribute to the reduction of the doubts and contradictions that have existed in Croatia for a long time. In terms of real estate for foreigners, we are all involved in Croatia, including politics and the public, in at least three conflicting interests. Respect and acceptance of the fundamental values and freedoms on which the European Union operates, the undeniable desire to preserve the natural and other values of the Croatian national space and the inalienable rights of private owners to freely dispose and decide on real estate in their possession. I am afraid that already the public debate on regulating the rights of foreigners to acquire real estate in Croatia has slowly gone into the most sensitive and then the most dangerous water feeding xenophobia. If this is the prevailing tone and direction of this debate, then we will find it difficult to convince anyone of our willingness to accept and understand the areas of freedom that are of value in the European Union. In preparation for the upcoming negotiations on Croatia's membership in the European Union, representatives of the government are already coming out with two equally incorrect thesis. One is that the previous government has tied their hands and made it impossible for them to negotiate successfully in the part of the regulation of acquisition of property for foreigners because, in the negotiations on a Stabilisation and Association Agreement with the SAA, it has adopted harmful provisions to abolish the conditions of reciprocity within 4 years of the entry into force of the SAA. The second is that despite the new government's negotiators, they will be more successful, they will fight for new exceptions, and even a permanent ban on obtaining property for foreigners in Croatia, as Malta agreed in its accession talks, for example. I was the main negotiator for the SAA, and I know well that in this contract with the European Union we have installed all those restrictions, exceptions that, in terms of the rights of foreigners in real estate, existed in our national legislation at the time. All these existing exemptions will not need to be abolished by letter of agreement with the European Union, but after 2008 we will need to examine their retention together with the European Union and, optionally, abolish it. Expecting that the European Union would accept in our bilateral SAA some additional exceptions that did not exist at the time of the negotiations in national legislation are simply not realistic. The same issue will be addressed by new negotiators. That is why it must be clear to them today that they are encouraging too high and unfounded public expectations that, without the previous amendment of our legal solutions, they will urge the European Union negotiators to accept additional exemptions for the acquisition of real estate in Croatia. Objections that we agreed to abolish the conditions of reciprocity within 4 years, so somewhere in late 2008. Do those who fear foreigners in Croatia really believe that the condition of reciprocity is the only fuse for preventing foreigners from acquiring real estate in Croatia. If someone's goal is to prevent and restrict foreigners from buying real estate in Croatia, then it can be done much easier by detimulating demand for Croatian real estate, other measures in the area of ownership relations, building conditions, spatial planning than by retaining the conditions of reciprocity. In addition, we are likely to conclude negotiations on full membership in the European Union by the end of 2008, so that real estate relations will be treated according to what will be the outcome of these negotiations, not what was well or poorly agreed in the SAA. Although I am personally much closer to solutions that seek to affirm freedom at the disposal of real estate, I would well-intentionedly advise anyone who wants a greater national share among real estate owners to try to achieve this goal while this can still be achieved through changes to national legislation rather than in negotiations with the European Union. I have not yet noticed that the Government has ever called for a joint statement hidden somewhere at the end of the SAA, which allows us to, regardless of the obligations set out in Article 60. We introduce proportionate and non-discriminatory restrictions on the acquisition of property based on the general interest or to freely edit the ownership system. So the former government in the SAA managed to maintain all valid exemptions in the acquisition of real estate from our legislation and, even more so, opened the space to introduce new restrictions on full membership by amending national legislation based on the general interest and the need to regulate the ownership system. However, another important fence must go along with this. We can change real estate legislation, but we must not discriminatoryly treat foreigners with these changes, which is also natural because we can find enough strong arguments and for additional legal restrictions and bans in acquisition and availability of real estate and to convince the negotiators of the European Union if we do not explain to them the benefits that Croatia but also the European Union will have from the preserved natural environment and natural beauty especially along the Adriatic. But there are no arguments that could convince anyone that the coasts and islands or national parks would be more endangered if they were devastated by foreigners than they would be if they were devastated by local citizens. For this reason, I do not see any reason why the Government, in Article 113 of the proposed Nature Protection Act, continues to retain the ban on the acquisition of property rights for foreign legal and natural persons in areas of protected natural values. Even more this ban is now being extended to, from the areas of national parks and nature parks and to other areas of protected natural values. Any extension of the exemption is not in line with the obligation to maintain the exemption of those existing ones from the SAA. I would like to stress that the proposed solutions to the law of the first instance, the restrictions on legal traffic and the procedure and conditions for issuing permits for space procedures can be sufficiently protected by the interest of preserving natural values. These solutions also prevent the sale of real estate in areas of protected natural values in which foreigners could take advantage of their current material advantage over poorer categories of Croatian citizens. Additional restrictions for foreigners except that they are inadmissible against the fundamental European values and practice of freedom of movement of persons and capital bring unnecessary doubt to our European partners about our real understanding and acceptance of these values and areas of freedom in which the European Union operates. So without the proposed Article 113, the entire Nature Protection Act would be given the necessary European dimension and no one could deliberately object to the day Ismo using all the instruments to install into national legislation all necessary to protect and preserve nature. I therefore suggest that this article be deleted or at least left in the text resulting from the applicable law to another reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28569	Thank you. Replica is a respected representative of Tomljenović.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28570	Mr. Vice President, I'd like to rephrase to an esteemed colleague in that section that comes out of his debate. And when he was talking about acquiring property rights and real estate traffic to foreigners. In this sense, it is not fair or incorrect when all efforts made by the Government and the Ministry in terms of the adoption of this law are characterized as discriminatory in relation to old natural and legal persons, thus discriminating in the sense that they as an entity can acquire ownership rights in Croatia. Who isn't the eye. And it's not the only law that regulates it. You know as well as I do that foreigners under the conditions of reciprocity with consent and according to the previous opinion of the competent ministries are absolutely free to acquire property rights over real estate in Croatia. This is about the possibility of protection and you yourself have said that there are methods or ways of protecting one category of land that is and in all other democratic countries therefore really extra comercum therefore some things or properties that cannot be in the free market system or free traffic of real estate. So your basic position that I have succeeded, I may be wrong, but as I understand them, this law is a concrete provision of the article to the government's insistence on the government's negotiating position in relation to the regime of acquisition of ownership rights, it comes from some discriminatory basic positions towards foreigners. Regardless of whether it was a foreign physical or legal basis, in my opinion they were not founded and there are a whole series of other regulations that will regulate this issue. But in any case, on those standards on those principles that it is in the countries where democracy is developed, that is, or that solutions are also in the European Union, and also in those countries which, in terms of the class and these institutions as a country, we are actually seeking. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28571	Thank you. The word has a respected representative, Zdravko Sočković. Excuse the reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28572	Thank you very much, foreign real estate issues will certainly be a lot of talk in the negotiations on Croatia's future membership in the European Union. This subject will certainly be discussed by the Parliament. And it is likely that today is neither the time nor the place to go more closely into the discussion or replicas of these topics. My main finding was that any ban that applies to only one category of citizens, whether by foreigners or only by a common category of Croatian citizens. It's fundamentally discriminatory. It's an indisputable fact. However, I have advocated that other measures should be in particular, not by such direct discriminatory measures, but by measures which will detached demand, especially by measures of spatial planning of urbanism, building conditions, and then by buying and all other measures, that this direct discrimination would be translated into solutions that would protect the very essence that we want to sew up and that is natural heritage. I repeat, we don't care if the natural heritage is compromised but the natural heritage will not be more endangered by foreigners than if Croatian citizens are allowed to do so by the regulations that we are going to regulate ourselves.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28573	Thank you. The word has a respected representative, Zdravko Sočković.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28574	Dear Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished members of the representatives of the Croatian government. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs. Today we are discussing a proposal for a law on the protection of nature proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Compared to the size of European countries, Croatia is highlighted by the explicit diversity of ecological systems, and habitats, which are reflected in the great wealth and diversity of plant and animal species, and subtypes. The value of this diversity in European scales and this richness of nature are primarily the result of Croatia's position in relation to the biographic regions of relief and the impact of geological hydrological and climate opportunities. If we compare the ratio of the number of known species within well-examined groups, and the area of Croatia compared to the same data in other countries in Europe only then will we understand the value of this diversity. In Croatia, about 34 ethnic species of all plant and animal species are known, and there are estimated to be about 91 thousand in total. On the basis of these data, Croatia ranks among the few first countries in Europe, given the richness of biodiversity. What we can boast about compared to the state of the ecological systems of most Europe and European countries, Croatia is opting for a high degree of conservation of nature. What we are not satisfied with is that the number of known species in Croatia is more than twice as small as the number of suspected species. The diversity in soil, relief, water, plant cover, climate with different local traditions contributed to the exceptional wealth of the landscape diversity of Croatia in the European frameworks. Under the protection of biodiversity, we mean the recording and preservation of the common varieties of cultured plants and breeds of domestic animals, which represent a significant national and cultural heritage in which the cultivation of which the efforts and knowledge of many generations in Croatia has been made. Protected areas are the backbone of the overall protection of the plant and animal world, which are a sanctuary and containers of biological diversity. It is important to note that some parts of the protected nature in the Republic of Croatia enjoy international legal protection as an extremely valuable natural space. In the Republic of Croatia, 9.8% of the area of all protected parts of nature is total. The forest areas in Croatia have been well preserved and they have not been reduced in the last 100 years, which is very good for Croatia. In Croatia, natural wetlands are well preserved, in river valleys not only important for Croatia but also for Europe, so they should be given priority in nature protection and the national programme for their preservation and management. The exceptional value and high degree of conservation not only in European but also in global proportions is certainly an area of debris, which covers about 54% of Croatia. It has always been a problem how in protected areas to reconcile the co-existence of nature and human needs and economic needs, making sure that by protecting nature, we do not evict people from these areas. Nature conservation must not always be just a cost, contrary to nature parks and protected areas, tourism and entrepreneurship can be developed, and there are certainly Plitvice Lakes, Paklenica Canyon and others. Finally, I would say that the legislative tradition in the field of nature protection in Croatia has been going on for hundreds of years, and our strategic goal is to meet the necessary preconditions for meeting the international obligations laid down by European Union regulations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28575	Thank you very much. State Secretary Jadran Antolovic would like a final review. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28576	Thank you, Mr. President, I would like to thank all the participants in the debate, as the majority first accepted the finding that it was a very complex legal matter and although we do have an existing Nature Protection Act, that it is necessary to pass a better, clearer and more enforceable law and that this debate, which was very substantive for this reason, and I thank you for the constructive proposals and try to put into the Final Bill proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28577	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. Proposal for a Nature Protection Act, first reading of P.Z.E. Number 198. The debate is closed. I'm voting on the next conclusion. Proposal for a Nature Protection Act is hereby adopted. All objections, proposals and opinions will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare the final draft law. Please engage. Please vote. Score. I find that 78 votes to reach the proposed conclusion unanimously.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28580	Thank you very much. Here, very shortly since the end of the day. By proposing this law, the Government proposes to abolish one relapse in the Law on Travel Immigrants, which is an exit visa since we consider it absolutely unnecessary, and no other European state has an exit visa, since there are other mechanisms that can control the citizens of a given country who need to be deprived of their exit in some way. We suggest that this law be passed which, I repeat, the relapse of the past exit visa would be lifted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28581	Thank you. Does the Legislative Committee want one? No, I don't. The Committee on Internal Policy and National Security. The President, the Honorable Representative, Ivan Jarnjak, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28582	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, the Committee concluded at its 27th session held on 29 November 2004 after the debate, the draft Law amending and supplementing the laws on travel documents of Croatian citizens in the text as proposed by the legislator of the Law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28583	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. Honored representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. She's gone. He's losing his word. Dear Representative Joseph Leco. He's giving up the debate. Dear Representative Ivan Bagarić. He's gone. He's losing his word. Is there anything you'd like to say, Secretary of State? No, I don't. I'm closing the debate. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on travel documents of Croatian citizens, first reading, Proposal for a Law No. 197. The debate is closed. I'm voting on the next conclusion. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on travel documents of Croatian citizens is hereby adopted. All objections, proposals and opinions will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare the final draft law. Please, let's get on with it. To vote. Score. I find that, with 78 votes in favour and 2 abstentions, the proposed conclusion has been reached.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28586	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. You will be presented with a proposal to appoint the president and members of the National Council for Higher Education. I remind you, according to the Law, the National Council for Higher Education has a president and 12 members, seven of whom are university professors with one of them in the field of teacher education, two high school teachers, two scientists employed at the scientific institute, and two persons outside the system of scientific activities and higher education. The proposal you've received, we believe, meets all of these required criteria. Allow me first of all to present a proposal for the President of the Council. As you have the opportunity to see, Professor Dr. Antony Dulcic. Allow a few basics. Antonije Dulčić was born on 9 October 1946 in Zagreb, he is a doctor in physics at the University of Zagreb, a regular professor at the Faculty of Natural History and Mathematics at the University of Zagreb. His résumé, like the others, you've got the other candidates attached. Let me say just a few words about the other members following these criteria set by law. So, seven candidates from the university professors' class. The first of them, you heard, the president himself, Mr. Dulcic, the other 6 are the following: Prof. Dr. Sc. Josip Baloban, further let me say it is a dean at the University of Zagreb Catholic-Godology Faculty, a regular professor of course, further the university professor is also more than that academic Nenad Kambi, Faculty of Philosophy in Zadar, third from this group Prof. Dr. Ivica Klapan is a professor of the Faculty of Medicine at the University of Zagreb, a regular professor, a professor professor of regular music at the University of Zagreb, Franjo Parać, further professor of university, Dr. Branko Rafajac from the University of Medical University of Rijeka and last from this group is Prof. Dr. Rudolf Cvitovski, University of Osijek, Faculty of Electrical Engineering in Osijek. As I was saying, the law requires that we have a single list and at least two high school teachers. According to our proposal, they are Professor Dr. Marcelo Dujanic, Marcelo Dujanic is a professor of Higher School in Rijeka and the second candidate is dc. Ivan Prskalo, professor of Higher Education School in Petrinja. The obligation is further to have two candidates from the ranks of scientists from public institutes. The first among them is the candidate Prof. Dr. Vera Gamulin from the Institute "Ruđer Bošković" from Zagreb and the second doctor. Dr. Josip Kasum at the Institute, do not forgive Split, the second Institute in Split, I want to help you in this extensive is, it is the Croatian hydrographic institute in Split. And the final requirement is that we have two candidates outside the science and higher education system. According to our proposal, those are mr. Niko Vidović, who works at the Student Centre in Zagreb and another candidate is Mr. Ivan Lasic, a private entrepreneur from Split. Here, it's a list of candidates from a given round of 116 candidates received after a total number by law possibly reported on two occasions. I remind you, therefore, that contest has been announced on two occasions. There you go, Mr. President, that's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28587	Thank you very much. Does the Committee on Education, Science and Culture want a rapporteur? Yeah. Dear Representative Jagoda Maja Martincevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28588	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The Committee on Education, Science and Culture of the Croatian Parliament discussed the 9th session held on 29 November 2004. Proposal for a decision to appoint the president and members of the National Council for Higher Education submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the Croatian Parliament. The opening argument was tabled by the applicant's representative. I am obliged to say that the participants in the debate have objected to the inequalities of biographies in which some errors have been stolen, and some information that does not belong to such biographies, but after the debate in which participants have comprehensively considered the proposal and from the point of view of the conditions which the proposals meet personally as well as the structural requirements of Article 10 of the Law adopted unanimously: It is proposed to the Croatian Parliament to adopt a Decision appointing the president and members of the National Council for Higher Education in the form prepared by the proposings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28589	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. Club of HNS and PGS representatives, respected representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28590	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I'm sorry there's no Mr. Secretary here tonight, because I assume he was involved in proposing these names, and I'm going to start with the good part and the nicer side. There was an apparent shift compared to the proposal we had a few months ago on our benches, but in my opinion, the proposal could have been better and the shift could have been also more quality. Today, we have to ask ourselves what are the basic objectives and what are the basic tasks of the National Council for Higher Education, and let me, Mr. President, also touch the National Council of Science so that I don't have to report later. The law stipulates that they should properly represent different fields of science and art, different regions in our country and the Croatian economy. It is clear from this that they too should recognize needs, represent interests, create and participate in our country's development strategy. Every advanced European country that holds on to itself has a clear development strategy. It is based on its educational plans, its educational programmes, as well as of course prescribes priority scientific research projects and funds them according to that priority. I will not talk here about the development of Croatia, and especially not about the development strategy because it has never been clearly spoken by any government, neither this previous or any previous one, unfortunately, but I would dare say a few words about what we will probably all agree on, and that is at least some of the components of our country's development, which is primarily the Adriatic orientation of Croatia. We will all agree that it is tourism, we will all agree that it is maritime, that it is transport, we will all agree clearly that there is no economy and economic development without information, new information technologies, without knowledge of foreign languages etc. etc. That's where I think we'll be able to reach a consensus. Therefore, it is my surprise that, in the list of proposed members of the Council, even three economists and two educators, we do not have any in the field of tourism, electrical engineering, computing, maritime, agronomy, veterinary, no language experts, new biotechnology, applied art, etc. etc. I can make a similar observation to the National Science Council, and I repeat, Mr. President, I will not report later, so just give me...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28591	A fellow representative came here, if you saw the Science Council, a new decision, was changed composition. It wouldn't tonight, there's a new decision with a changed composition.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28592	Okay. Then I'm giving up this part, because I thought I'd make a few remarks here, and then I'll do it tomorrow. Here, therefore, colleagues and colleagues precisely because in the strategy, at least the part where we agreed, I don't see enough experts from these areas, not one man from these 7-8 areas very important, and I don't think that's good. So the shift is made in terms of how these people choose, but not enough. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28593	Thank you. Dear representative Marija Lugaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28594	Your Honor, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State. Today, after a long time before the national councils failed to function, or somehow outside the law, we have the opportunity to make a good decision and discuss when we will vote and appoint the president and members of the National Council for Higher Education. The National Council for Higher Education is one of the key bodies, which is even defined in the law as an expert body that cares for the development and quality of the entire higher education system in the Republic of Croatia. In order to know how important and serious work is the fact that the National Council for Higher Education proposes and encourages the adoption of measures to improve higher education, it proposes and discusses the projection of a network of higher educations, but what is very important also gives consent to the terms of the Rector's Assembly and the Council of Higher Education and High Schools for acquiring and teaching arts and teaching professions, it proposes to the Minister of Regulations, discuss the budget, etc., hold joint meetings and with the National Council for Science. In any case, one of the two may be the most crucial independent at least so legally appointed, independent bodies which play a very large role in forming a high school policy. Similar to my colleague Doric, I think that now is neither the time nor the place to discuss how important it is in Croatia, but I think we must make a maximum effort for this council to really be a representative of what is best in Croatia that is made in Croatian higher education. It is good that in this proposal, the Ministry and the Government have sent us a list of and short qualifications of all those who have even responded to the invitation to tender through two occasions from the summer to now and unfortunately what shows that the Ministry has not done and the Government has not achieved this step, that excellence has not been achieved in the sense that the selected are the best of those candidates who have applied for the invitation itself. The formal objections have much less than in that first proposal that was this summer, but the fact is that there is none here in the field of biotechnical sciences. This may be less important, it is much more important that, according to people's résumés and résumés of some people, I really don't think it's a place in the National Council for Higher Education, especially if we know how important the body is. Not wanting to put individuals who are very likely in good faith to apply to this call for a national council, it is difficult to believe that the responsible Parliament, the responsible Croatian Parliament, in the most important body that has to deal with issues of higher education can and will obviously intend to appoint a person who has no reference to himself, and no other reference, has many years of experience of top-level organisational ability and enormous work energy, a person whose resume does not even write about what college he is and where he finished his high schooling. There are other examples like that. There are examples of a person who speaks three sides of the language, Croatian active, German active and English passively. And those, I mean, there's such details I really wouldn't, I don't think this is even a place and those people just don't deserve it. The second which I cannot agree with, and I will speak in person, is the last proposed one that belongs to this category of persons who are outside the system of science and higher education, at least so categorized, it is Mr. Proposed Niko Vidovic. Mr. Vidović is the current director of the Student Centre in Zagreb, and he cannot possibly be the category of persons outside the higher education and science system, because according to the existing Law on Science and Higher Education cares about the student standard and the very institution Student Centre, which is the founder of the state, the institution financed by the state, and its own director who is actually a civil servant, i.e. a civil servant cannot possibly be a person who can be categorized as one outside the science system. I wouldn't go into it if there was a colleague Vidovic or no qualifications for the very seat of a member of the National Council for Higher Education, but I don't think that's right and that it's actually against the law itself and especially the law's intensities. When the original law was passed in the summer of 2003, the idea of these external members outside the science and higher education system was to include top-level businessmen in these key bodies and sciences and higher education, people who have this particular link between education and the economy, and at least the idea was to have one private company, a private company from Split that has 10 employees and which has huge labour and the director of the student centre in Zagreb. In any case, this was not an emergency when we passed the law on why people outside the system should be in the National Council and I am absolutely certain that they will not be able to meet the tasks set before them by the National Council for Higher Education. In the end, I think that we as the Croatian Parliament should expect much from them. That he is with his colleague Vidovic, he is clearly aware that he cannot do it, facts from a résumé where he does not mention anywhere that he is an employee, or director of the Student Centre in Zagreb. We have a biography that is probably accurate but obviously awareness of the fact that it would be a serious obstacle and formal to be appointed as a member of the National Council for Higher Education is here and he himself is aware of it. Because of everything I've said and especially because the accessionees who have responded to the Ministry's invitation to tender, there are many better candidates, candidates who have better formal assumptions, who have better references, who have a better scientific reputation and better reputation in the academic community. I won't be able to support this motion for a simple reason because no excellence has been achieved here, and I don't want to guess who cares about having not the best possible National Council for Higher Education. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28595	Thank you very much. Does the secretary of state want to? If you think about it, then when it comes to the vote, it won't be tonight, then we'll put in your proposals and this second proposal. I'm closing the debate at this point. This second proposal for a decision to appoint the president and members of the National Science Council has today been submitted by the Government to the amended proposal for a decision which has not yet been passed through the Committee on Education, Science and Culture, and would then not be discussed today for it to be profiled. Proposal for a decision on the appointment of presidents and members of the National Council for Higher Education. The debate is closed. I am voting on the motion for a decision. Please engage. To vote. Score. I find that, unanimously with 77 votes, a decision has been taken to appoint the president and members of the National Council for Higher Education.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28598	So to Mr President, this additional addition to the motion for a decision, i.e. the List of Trade Companies of the Special State Interest, which is related to the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest, refers to the fact that we are later correcting, or comparing everything so that the decision already taken could be made and shown in the "National Journal" we have established that in contacts with the Ministry of Economy we have also established that the Shipyard Institute is not only the Institute that it is a shareholder society and that, pardoned, limited liability society, therefore, a company and we considered it inappropriate since in 100% ownership it has a special additional interest for the Republic of Croatia that it should also be on the list, and that is the addition. So, only the shipping, the Brodar Institute d.o.o. as another on the list of companies of particular national interest related to the Law on conflict of interest. There he is.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28599	Thank you very much. Would the representatives of the board like to? Yeah. Chairman of the Committee on Economy, Development and Reconstruction, Honored Representative Drago Pukleš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28600	Your Honor, your Honor, your honors. The Committee on the Economy, Development and Reconstruction of the Croatian Parliament at the 21st session held on 29 November discussed the proposal for a decision to supplement the Decision on the list of companies of special state interest submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Government of the Republic of Croatia by an act of 11 November 2004. The Committee shall be within the meaning of Article 67. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament discussed the decision as a parent working body. The opening statement was submitted by the proposer's representative without debate, the Committee unanimously reached the following conclusion, supported by the decision to supplement the decision on the list of companies of particular national interest.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-30-0.u28601	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. There are registered deputies, but none of them are in the hall. I'm closing the debate. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament today would end this truly fruitful work, and tomorrow continue with point 13 and further, the Final Proposal of the Law on International Restrictive Measures, Final Proposal of the Law on Air Protection, the Law on Waste, Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Medicinal Products and Medical Products, Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Air Transport, Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Community Economy, the Final Proposal of the Law on Industrial Property, the Tax on Income, the Tax on Profit, for which there are conditions. And tomorrow we're going to do it in that order, and at the proposal's request, we're going to move this point 12 to another nice day. Thank you very much. Tomorrow at 9:30. A proposal for a decision to supplement a decision on the list of companies of particular national interest. The debate is closed. I am voting on the motion for a decision. Please, let's get on with it. To vote. Score. I find that, with 78 votes for and 3 abstentions, the proposed decision has been made.
