ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27278	Your Honor, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. After two years of work, Uskoko has given rise to the need to amend and supplement the Law on the Office for the Prevention of Corruption and Organized Crime in that work which would concern the insurance and strengthening of norms and other assumptions. That will guarantee Uskoko the leading position in curbing and organised crime and corruption. The amendments to this bill have come to the initiative of the State's Attorney General, and we, within the Justice Department, established a working group on 22 March to draft this bill before you. The group included representatives and judicial bodies implementing the law, representatives of the theory of material and procedural criminal law, which also participated in the adoption of the first text of the law. And now that changes these changes and additions. In the application of Uskoko, several legal issues have arisen, such as the question of the delirquency and the jurisdiction of the office and the jurisdiction of the courts. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day The law. There was a question of the organisation of the office and special departments of the courts. Furthermore, the issue of co-operation with the police and the issue of office authority in the investigation process. With regard to this process of the issue of deliriousness and jurisdiction of the Jump in amendments to the laws, we have proposed amendments to those provisions of the law which will ensure the full and unequivocal jurisdiction of the Office for Criminal Crimes committed by organised crime and corruption offences. The amendments shall, in particular, cover the provision of Articles 21 and other provisions relating to the competence of the Office. Up until now, the office's mandate has excluded the principality of organised crime, in particular the one that is transnational and the amendment of Article 21 extended the office's jurisdiction to the crimes of organised crime and corruption, which are taxed. The second question was the organisation of the office and special departments of the courts. In this part, provisions on the organisation and functioning of the work of Uskoko have been revised, and the question of the cleavage and jurisdiction of special departments in courts. It is also proposed to establish a new department for international co-operation and joint investigation. On the third issue, co-operation with the police has been amended and those provisions on the authority of the Jump on a more effective function of co-operation with police and state authorities have been amended. Those provisions must provide for a leading role in the office in the conduct of reconnaissances in the previous criminal proceedings and guarantee more effective coordination of all expensive bodies in the detection and processing of corruption and organised crime. In addition, the relations between the state's attorneys and the regular authorities have been more precisely regulated in the event of the existence of a basic suspicion that the criminal offence of organised crime has been committed, as well as the relations between the regular authorities and offices and offices and other state-level bodies. The provisions on the handling of offices and other state bodies specify relations between the office, police directorates, interior departments of the regular authorities, tax administrations. An office to prevent money laundering, and a judge to execute. In this fourth issue, the powers of the Hoping in the pre-examination procedure are also extended by the office's control over the data representing a bank secret, and with regard to the initiation of the forced confiscation procedure. And what had to be amended in view of the fact that the Bank Law prescribes the possibility of collecting data on citizens' bank accounts, but in a way that does not meet the needs of urgent and effective treatment. Which is now the new provision of Article 42a. removed and aligned with the UN Convention on Transnational Organized Crime. Special investigative techniques, and temporary confiscation of property benefits obtained by criminal acts of organised crime. The new provision allows the office to directly ask the bank for data on suspected transactions of a particular person, for the necessary speed in handling the criminal offences of organised crime and corruption. And the conduct of an investigative judge when the bank refuses to comply with the request of the office. It is also proposed that an investigative judge, within a very short time after the request of the Bank Office, issue a warrant for the delivery of information protected by a secret, or a warrant to monitor suspected payment traffic on the accounts of the designated person. It also extends the powers and judges to carry out other necessary reconnaissance measures on the proposal of the Jump. Research techniques. For all corruption crimes and for the crimes of organised crime, which is in line with the recommendations of "Greco". It's final. In these amendments and additions to the Law in Uskoko, amendments to the Criminal Procedure Act and in May 2002 were taken into account. The July 2004 Penal Code, the new Law on the Liability of Legal Persons for Crimes, as well as the Witness Protection Act. And we believe that this Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Jump Act must be adopted as soon as possible, given that the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Penal Code has been adopted, and their changes are one of the main assumptions as part of the reform of the government's judiciary for a decisive fight against corruption and organised crime. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27279	Thank you. Do they want to report to the board? The Justice Committee, President-in-Office of Rade Ivas, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27280	Your Honor, Madam Minister. The Committee for the Justice of the Croatian Parliament at the 14th session held on November 18th 2004 discussed the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the Anti-Corruption and Organized Crime Office. That has been submitted to the Croatian Parliament by the Government of the Republic of Croatia by an act of 27 October 2004. The Committee shall be based on the powers laid down in Article 73. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament discussed the proposed law as a parent working body. In his opening statement, the applicant's representative pointed out that in the application of the Uskoko law several issues have arisen such as the issue of the Office's work and jurisdiction and jurisdiction, the Office's jurisdiction, the issue of co-operation with the police, the question of the Office's powers in the investigation process. The question of the part-cycle and the jurisdiction of Uskoko, in particular the updated takeover of the legal position of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia, is that there is an apparent gain between Article 333. Penal Code, and provisions on a criminal offence in which, as a classification circumstance, it is prescribed that a criminal offence be committed in the capacity of a group or criminal organisation. The bill accurately determines the powers of the office to establish catalogues of criminal offences, the Department of Prevention of Corruption and Public Relations, and the Department of International Co-operation are established. Correctly regulate the relations between regular authorities and offices, precisely regulate the issue of the Office's powers in the pre-examination process, especially with regard to the collection of data representing a bank secret. In the debate, the Committee members supported the proposed amendments and additions to the law in order to achieve an effective jump-and-coordination procedure according to the international commitments undertaken. In the text of the draft law, the members of the Committee highlighted certain remarks and proposals. The draft law should be brought into line with the provisions of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Penal Code, these are the latest amendments to the Penal Code. In view of the proposed amendment of the law in terms of the office's work and competence, and the need to set up new departments, it is extremely important and justified to employ new employees. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The office is given the possibility to directly request information from the bank on suspicious transactions in bank accounts. In the event that the bank does not act by order of the office, it has been pointed out that the days of the procedure must be clear and determined. After the debate was held, the Committee on Justice unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament the adoption of the following lunch: The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Office with the control of corruption, organised crime, was adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. 2. Any objections, proposals and opinions raised in the debate on the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Office for the Prevention of Corruption and Organized Crime will be directed to the Government to take them into consideration before the final draft of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27281	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. SDP counseling club. Dear Representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27282	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Madam Ministers with co-workers, respected colleagues and colleagues, if crime threatens the social and legal order, the fundamental values of man and community, the basic conditions of life, then organised crime in this regard acts multiplely destructively. Aware of precisely this kind of danger, but equally of the importance of fighting corruption, the SDP Club is keenly supporting the adoption of this Act. The office, as we heard from Ms. Minister's opening letter, was passed in 2001, and the Office itself began working in December 2001. The Office itself had its own pangs of labor, but if we just remember a little bit and we see that the opposition at the time was very skeptical, it was, however, considered that this was an excessive institute, an extra institution, and that, as it was established, it was possible to adequately oppose this evil. However, here today, the SDP as an opposition party supports a government that wants to clear up right now, normably strengthens USKOK's powers and resolves some of the dilemmas that have been shown in the work of USKOK over these years. However, I would immediately draw attention to the fact that USKOK is in its birth, in its formation, because the birth of an institution and for a much richer state, one is hard on a responsible task that therefore always follows the great cost, therefore, of large material resources. So, we met, but I'm not saying that in that sense we shouldn't be doing this anymore. If we decide to create an institution, then the law should come last. Then, first of all, we need to think about the material conditions, so that the law-making process can begin and work. It wasn't, it wasn't good luck to happen to Uskok itself, so at the time, only the ministry gave up its own insufficient space to allow USKOK such work. Likewise, other material resources needed in the form of cars, computers that were still insufficient in the ministry itself. So that's exactly the kind of problem that when you're discussing exactly the essence of things, and we're going to sometimes think that they're being understood, but they're not. But, frankly, there is one conclusion. If he sincerely wants to solve a problem, then he always finds opportunities. On a simple principle, where there's a will, there's a way. And as we have already had from the opening letter an opportunity to find out, the fundamental change goes in that direction to remove legal inability which is precisely because of the inaccuracies and inaccuracies that then always go in the favor of the defendants the Supreme Court stands at the point of view that there is no real gain, that there is only an apparent gain between Article 333. Penal Code, i.e. the crime itself of association for the purposes of committing a criminal offence, but there is then no other criminal offence for which it was precisely when the law of law had the meaning of the law was that the USKOK was acting precisely in relation to these crimes, such as the abuse of intoxicating drugs, especially its qualified form, when those forms were committed, when those acts were committed in the composition of a group or association, as well as any other criminal offences. However, because of such inability or the obvious meaning of the law was such and this was the purpose of such a but still reading the letter of the law, it is obvious that, or less than it was intended to be, lex dict minus quantoluit and therefore it is truly justified that this change, where it should then be stated that the very crimes that are most often and should be the subject of the work of the USKOK itself are just and fall into the part of the part of the USKOK, because I say the current situation has led to absurdities that are precisely severed by the ordinary court, even the municipal jurisdiction, while USKOK then remained one part of the crimes of street corruption which then did not so much from the aspect of organised crime, so far-fetched, so far-fetched. The same is true in this regard, precisely because of the current situation, it has also brought USKOK into a difficult situation in the investigation process itself, where it could not require the implementation of specific safeguard measures. However, here, when we are talking about the word "cold of reconnaissance measures", it should be noted that it is also necessary to amend the Penal Code that these reconnaissance measures be taken as well as the use of a provocator agent, i.e. We have also seen disputed conditions, i.e. already indisputable, given the position of the Supreme Court, that such evidence by the way cannot... are key to detecting and proving a lot of hard work, rather than for what they were originally set for. [[/the speaker doesn't understand.]] For this reason, it is necessary in this direction and in this respect to complete the Penal Code in order to then have the right instrument in this present, not extended, but real activity that should fall under the scope of the USKOK. It is necessary to install the law, i.e. the law provides for a more precise installation of relations between the state's attorneyship and the regular authorities. This is certainly necessary, however, by seeking to amend USKOK it will again be made possible to a single measure. Let us remember the significant novel of the Law by means of a punitive procedure, one of the first stages of precisely significant changes and the relationship between the rule of law and the judicial authority in this segment of the State's Attorney's Office is shown to be necessary. And I therefore believe that the second phase of the criminal procedure reform is necessary, unforgivable, it needs to be done as soon as possible, in order to finally have one line of management, because here, as long as this amendment to the Criminal Procedure Act, and the existence and the USKOK Act itself and the activity itself, this activity, or their function, still wants to bring some tensions there. They exist by nature the very things. It's always a tendency from the ancient executive authorities, the regular authorities to impose as much on the judicial authority as possible, and when that's not possible by certain obstructions. As a result, there is no other way out than to subdue the regular authority in this segment to the State Attorney's Office. Then we'll have one line of command to detect and secure evidence. And I don't think that without the state's attorney's ability to order a regular government, that the regular government is responding to the state's attorney's office in that sense, we're not going to get the right result. We'll come back as much as we can on that ground, especially the failure to conduct the procedure when they're transferred from one segment to another. I think that finally our criminal legislation that is here is quite up-to-date, the time has matured when it no longer has to fight the lags in that segment that it reformes in this sense that the investigation finally disappears from our official regular criminal proceedings. In the end, with changes to the CAP, a very small part of the proceedings has been determined, or left to the investigation itself. But otherwise, the reform itself would have gained a more significant position and then more significant and responsibility of the state's attorney, but also greater discipline of the regular authorities. Here it is noted in the assessment of the sources of the necessary means of law enforcement, that additional resources should be provided for the implementation of this law, and this is indeed the case, the means to inform the offices as well as the employment of new employees, but it will also be necessary to provide additional funds to the police themselves, to regular authorities who are fully inadequately equipped to provide such assistance, or to satisfy the demand that the BOOK requires of it. It's not easy to stand up to crime, especially not organized. That's why it's necessary except for knowledge, skill and courage, I say especially courage. It is necessary sometimes to expose his life, he literally said so on one occasion and the President of Italy. That's why people who work here deserve our trust and our support. At times, there is also often a lack of understanding in the public between the procedures to be suspended, which are the responsibilities of regular bodies, and in particular the USKOK, but it should be noted that USKOK is not a court, it does not decide on guilt, it is being initiated accordingly as all other crimes are being committed when there is doubt. But that is why certain instruments should be given to him, and therefore we particularly welcome this amendment concerning an absolute relativisation of banking secrets, because it is a fundamental obstacle to the fight against corruption and organised crime. So far, we've had one absurd situation, USKOK is a central fighting body, as well as to prevent corruption and organised crime. However, under the Banks Act, any tax authority may freely walk into a bank and search for such data. Equally, it is also enabled to prevent money laundering, and is not allowed to USKOK. It is an absurdity, an absurdity which is then exactly not solved by a logical interpretation, because banks have kept refusing to do so, then there is a need and such an amendment where, by saying, if not in the Law on Banks, and then surely in such a special law, it is said and determined. So it's up to us to create legal, but also material assumptions that the key institutions of the state, and in this I believe that USKOK is one of the key institutions of the state, to act in a way that is capable of accomplishing its mission. What we do in this regard in order to strengthen the general work of judicial authorities, especially those given both special and responsible tasks, which we do precisely to strengthen the implementation of the law. To which extent the social structures themselves stimulate certain deviant behaviors. What is the attitude of the ruling against this problem? Is he a true commitment or a time phrase? I don't think this is a place or a time when we talk about this problem that we're guessing about, it will soon show the practice itself regardless of what we're talking about or thinking about, but in any case, it's not encouraging what happened in the last ten months that Croatia has sunk only in the last months by 10 election points on that step, on that one scale of corruption perception. That's why I think this law should be supported, that's what the SDP Club does, but it also needs to be created by all the material possibilities of USKOK in order to actually accomplish what we're saying here. It's not encouraging, here we were yesterday discussing the State budget for 2005, to cut funds for the work of USKOK. These funds should be increased and the SDP Club will also act in this respect. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27283	Thank you very much. Club of representatives of HSS, respected representative Josip Vresk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27284	Mr. President, Madam Minister, colleagues and colleagues. I must say that I participated in this or that way in the work of the Government when this regulation was written and that there were already two conflicting opinions in the writing of the Law on the Office for the Control of Corruption and Organized Crime. In one opinion, it was not necessary to set up a special office but was simply necessary to establish a special department for the internal organisation of the State's Attorney's Office or whatever it is called, but in any case, it was necessary to amend the Law on Criminal Procedure or/and Law, i.e. Criminal Law, i.e. change the overall criminal legislation, because the aim above all is to ensure an effective persecution of all perpetrators of criminal offences, especially those of the most severe forms of severe penalties and crimes, which are above all those crimes that are within the jurisdiction of the office, i.e. It's a leap, and it's organized by crime. In the second opinion, a special state body was to be set up which was founded by this law, which was later new, an office was established modeling some European countries, and we thought that this would solve the problem of the perpetrator of criminal offences, above all organised crime, to be more efficient and faster, etc. etc. What I'm trying to say, and I'm saying this every time it's about amendments to any criminal procedure law, any criminal law that we really have to do a new Penal Code, a modern Penal Code, and a brand-new Code on Criminal Procedure, because the existing amendments to the USKOK Act, I'm afraid they won't solve the problem as a whole, and now I'm going to tell you why I think so. Namely, our criminal proceedings are still ineffective and still slow, and it continues through the media that the perpetrators of the most serious crimes remain at large, that the courts are working slowly, that the state's attorneys are inefficient, etc. etc. On the other hand in criminal law, in that part of material and criminal law, we still have the most difficult forms of certain social disorders outside the criminal zone. They are not prescribed as criminal acts, first of all I mean that modern, cybernetic or whatever you want to call it, crime, and I fear that the changes that we have made primarily by accepting the Conventional Law are not covered by all these relations, or all these anomalies that should be prescribed as criminal acts and, of course, the penalty attributed to them. What I'm trying to say here is that this law wants to actually solve three things. First of all, he wants to organize himself a different office for the control of corruption and organised crime. So it's working on an internal structure that's different from the existing law. The second thing is, he wants to give more power to UskoK. And the third thing, it wants to enter into this law what the Republic of Croatia has signed or joined what we call the conventions, and it is a convention law, and we really can't influence it. It is what it is, and it must be an integral part of our regulations. As for the very internal structure of the organization and cooperation with the police, I think it was necessary to strictly distinguish what is being resolved by law, which is being resolved by sublaws, but the government must also consider that another law called the Police Act should be intervened because I am afraid that only such a change will not be resolved. As far as the powers are concerned, we all want the BOOK to work effectively, if it's already established. We must indeed do everything to ensure that this state body, which at the time collected one part of the judicial powers and one part of the power of the State's attorney, remains a strict distinction between the judicial and administrative, i.e. the executive authorities. Therefore, this state body must be effective and must also be allowed in this legislative sphere to fulfil its social function. I'm going to tell you just a few things that I think I should have done or I'm going to repeat what I used to say, amendments and criminal legislation in total, and above all in the material criminal law. You will see very quickly that perhaps in this way the more effective work of USKOK would be increasingly pronounced. In fact, we are solving an organization here, solving powers, and we have not in the material criminal law solved the problem of what is called collecting information about criminal acts, or their perpetrators. We still have, I'd like to see the court statistics, I'm afraid it's devastating. Unsanctioned or weak, I'm not going to say unsanctioned but poorly sanctioned false reporting, I'd like to see the data on how many criminal convictions were handed down for the felony of false reporting. I'm afraid that's where the data is defeating, and I'm also interested in statistics on how much we've protected those criminal applicants who are being prosecuted for their official duties and, in particular, organized crime crimes. Namely, what am I saying? I very responsibly argue that USKOK would be much easier to do if we, by amending certain amendments to criminal material legislation, were to maximum sanction what is called false reporting, and also to protect what is called the reporting of criminal offences, or its perpetrators. And I'm afraid that's a very big problem. As regards the very powers of the USKOK, I agree that such powers are granted to it, although the problematic provision of Article 42 of this Act remains, therefore, an amendment relating to banks, i.e. the provision of information to USKOK on the balance of accounts. We have a law on the prevention of money laundering which requires the reporting of every cash payment over a certain amount and not only of the bank's concern. The law refers to many more legal entities, and I fear that USKOK already has such power. However, it has authority over banks regulated by the Banks Act, but this regulation, i.e. the CAP, or the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering here is a lex specialis compared to the Banks Act. Well, it's only a matter of time before he's done business with the Bureau of Money Laundering, not the banks. But if that's the case, I'll agree to keep it that way, and that kind of principle of Article 42, then it's not clear why you limit yourself to cash only. This is not the only thing that is earned by evil deeds. Then why not extend such power and properly streamline the provision of Articles 42 and 42 to other legal persons who have information about something obtained by criminal activity, it is not just about money. It must also be about movables, real estate, etc., etc. Then why don't you extend the power of the Uskok? I suggest to the Proposer to correct Article 42 'cause I'm afraid it's not just about banks. The problem is much wider than what it says. And what I think should be mentioned in the end is one thing we rarely mention, and we often see it in the media. In fact, it's always good when it comes to human freedoms to have clearly prescribed what the state body, in this case the state's judicial authority, can do. So what are his powers and what these powers mean in relation to human freedoms. When they can be limited, in what way, etc. But this extension of powers, I think, should be followed by an adequate amendment to the rules on compensation for damages, above all, by general regulations, and by specific regulations. That's why, you know, we often like to talk about having to be really criminal persecution efficient. But also on the other hand there are human rights and human freedoms, which guarantees the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, and I fear that this will not be a good intervention if the regulations governing the compensation of the damage. In the end, I suggest to the Proposer to correct Article 42 of this Law. The HSS Club will support this law because it really needs to enable USKOK to work more efficiently, but I also want to say that it would be good to finally see a new one on these benches, not a novelty but a new Penal Code, and above all, a new Criminal Procedure Act because I am afraid that this is exactly where the problem lies, and I believe that this will solve the problem more effectively, overall criminal proceedings and also these criminal proceedings for which it is responsible for BUSKOK to be resolved faster and more quality. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27285	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HNS Club, PGS's respected representative Nikola Vuljanic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27286	Thank you, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. The BOOK was founded two years ago, so not the moment we, to say the least, ran into organized crime. Organized crime has found its roots in the mid-90s, at least in the form we know it today, and the way we looked at it only in American films, in conversion procedures, in robbery proceedings. When strange characters appeared in public life. These strange characters have already appeared in public life for years, for some time we call them prominent entrepreneurs from Zagreb, for some time we call them heads of Zagreb's underworld, the same person. Ministers in governments until 2 years ago have meditated on whether there are mafias in Croatia, whether there are organised crime in Croatia, whether there is no crime. One thought so, the other thought so until the government organized itself, the criminals organized themselves relatively successfully. As far as this second part of the activity of the Office of Corruption is concerned, we met in the past 50 years. We all know practically all the details. Perhaps we could teach the developed West something about it from our experiences. The reason for the amendments and the addition of this Act are the recent cases where USKOK proved to be slightly inefficient, whether unprepared, but in any case limited in action. These first two elements, efficiency and preparedness, the state's attorney will probably assess how he can assess it, and as far as the restrictions on action are concerned, we now have before us a bill that would allow USKOK to function both more prompt and clearer and more efficient. The reasons for the adoption therefore were the cause, the reasons for the adoption of these amendments and the addition of the law are already here, I would try to simplify it so that both our citizens and ourselves, in simple terms, draw it out. The first change in jurisdiction in the sense of a clear definition of criminal offences, which the USKOK is dealing with, has seen a change of the Penal Code unfortunately in these amendments and additions to all new offences are not listed in the amendments and additions to the criminal law, the Legislative Committee has been made notice and this will most likely be incorporated into the Final Text of the Law. And on this plan, it is evident that Croatia must adapt to the standards of the conventions it has signed, at last, as much as it exists across Europe or does not exist, for criminals as we know it does not exist, they are an international organisation that operates according to very different rules. In order to put an end to this, it is necessary to adapt to conventions, but also to establish better cooperation with bodies in other countries dealing with the same business. The problem of coordinating, coordinating the work of other state-repression bodies is obvious and it sort of solves itself here, I mean even quite meaningfully and organised. The last point dealing with these amendments and the additions of the laws are powers in the pre-examination process, primarily powers concerning the availability of bank data. In Article 21, it is interesting to define who is all obliged to report something that may look like organised crime or criminal offences under Article 21 of this Law, all those crimes which are being committed by the SCIENCE. All public authorities and any legal person who learns about the circumstances and data in their work. It is clear that this should be thrown out in its district because all the authorities, all the legal persons, finally and every citizen of this country, are obliged to report a criminal offence regardless of whether this crime is taking place in his or her work. Powers for more energetic measures, more effective, clearer, more direct measures in the process are prescribed in Articles 21c, d, e, f are defined well, I hope that after this discussion, after discussions by committees, the Ministry will better define these powers, so it will include some other procedures that could be classified and which would go in the direction of efficiency of the procedure. I think it's in Article 42a. which speaks of the availability of bank data actually covered up the potential danger of doing nothing. And according to all the rules so far, the State Attorney's Office has had the opportunity to access the bank data of course with the order of the competent judge and so on. Some other state services such as the Tax Office, the Money Laundering Office have these powers and now we all know from our own experience that the Tax Office can enter under each of us's bank records whenever it wants. If the amendments and additions to this Act are laid down by a possible provision that USKOK officials have the right to request bank information on persons against whom an investigative procedure is conducted, I assume no explicate writes anywhere, but I suppose that means oral request. So, imagine a picture of a USKOK officer coming into the bank, it's said he's working on what fart he's working on, he's looking for bank data. It's organized crime of broad scale and the like, the bank refuses to give that information, the clerk returns the next day with a judge's order, which he served his first visit, so just to warn the criminals, nothing else, just to warn them. So if a USKOK officer doesn't have the authority of a tax inspector to directly enter the bank data, then he doesn't need this to stand there. On the other hand, I am personally concerned by the fact that any official of any service and especially the repressive services can, by means of an oral order, receive any information about any citizen, it is simply not good that it is not in line with any fundamental civilizational achievements and if we want liberal democracy. But in any case, if you want to have an effective procedure this kind of procedure is not so, this only allows a criminal to be warned, and within that time until the USKOK officer comes with a written order, do whatever it takes to cover or simply go to Turkey. Just one more question, in Article 18. Amendments and additions are ex Article 60. There are funds that the office uses, financial resources. The last of these funds are called special-needs funds, and I'd be genuinely interested in someone telling me in simple terms what it really is, whether it's the financing of a provocator agent, whether it's something else I don't even know what it is. I'd like to know, I think the public would actually be interested in what kind of and what kind of availability the USKOK can have. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27287	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, pursuant to Article 204 paragraph 12. I will propose to the Rules of Procedure to supplement the agenda of this session to the following points: Final bill on the rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families, second reading, P.Z. No. 180 and second Proposal to amend and supplement the financial plan of the Croatian highways for 2004. Any of the MPs have any objections to including any of these two points on the agenda? There isn't. Ladies and gentlemen, the amendment of the agenda has been established. Correction of an incorrect alleged, respected representative Emil Tomljanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27288	Mr. President, the fact that an esteemed colleague who said organised crime was created in this form in the early 1990s, is incorrect, in connection with the process of conversion and privatisation. That's not true, because from the very structure and quantity of these crimes exactly the opposite is seen. Namely, with this time period, you cannot link the emergence of illegal transfer of persons across borders, car theft, counterfeiting of money and securities, international prostitution of illegal arms trafficking, etc. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27289	Thank you very much. HSP club respected representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27290	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, State Secretary, I'm sorry there is no Justice Minister. The first thing that is important to state the position of the Croatian Party of Rights and in this case is the same as the views of Croatian citizens, which is that Croatian citizens and Croatian parties rightly expect a decisive and effective fight against corruption, organised crime and robbery. What we know is that we are at the bottom, or that corruption is great, we ourselves know what makes investment, employment, and everything else that is related to it impossible. Croatian citizens are not interested in what will be called a specialised body within the state's attorney's office to fight corruption, organised crime, grab and anything that is not like a country like Croatia. But the current name of this body USKOK certainly does not correspond to the results of that body, as well as Mr Emil Tomljanović, who is from Senj, because we know what USKOK is. The leap when he jumped somewhere in the fight against the Turks, that grass no longer grew. And it was resolved briefly and clearly, operationally, professionally and resolutely. The current name doesn't match. Just remember the case of the former foreign minister, Deputy Prime Minister Mate Granic, there we cannot take the impression that it was not in the function of politicising, sensationalism and everything else this body must not have, which this body must not have. This body must not have, it must be professionally professional, responsible, means professional, professional, responsible. But unfortunately, in this case, it was purely sensationalism. We also have a lot more cases like that, the Canjuga case, the Batarella case, and it's even more interesting to hear after the verdict, so the Supreme Court's River, the people within these institutions, called "USKOK," are commenting on it. Look, they're commenting on it in a way, and we know what the situation was, not for these, but for the last election in the United States, that the Supreme Court ruled on who was the electoral winner and there was no comment. There may be no comment in such cases. And here this is what is happening and what we have come to, we have come to this situation that citizens with the right to fear that this country will fight corruption, organised crime and looting. If it is intended, if it is an intention, the intensity of this law to achieve professionalism, expertise, no political responsibility, without sensationalism, we must first make order that there are people who know their jobs and in the full sense, who are responsible for not playing Elliot Ness, without any facts, without anything else, who will not have themselves above all, who will have above all the protection of the legal order of Croatia and all that is important that someone professionally, professionally and responsibly behave such important jobs. Therefore, this way of working so far is what we should do even though we have failed to discuss in the report on the work of the State's Attorney's Office, but I think this is a good thing right now to look at all the problems that lead us to this part. So we have to do a lot, a lot, a lot of things, not like what we've done now. And now before I go to the provisions that are proposed, it's a good thing first reading is not another reading. Unfortunately, it is the impression that some of these provisions are, let's say, Article 7 of the bill and is related to Article 21a, 21b and 21c, which refers to the blocking of bank accounts and we get the impression that this may even be directed against General Ante Gotovina and his friends but is going under this method of blocking the bank account. And as it happens in practice, I'll tell you in my case. At the beginning of the third, fourth month of last year, I was called for an informative interview at the Police Administration of Zagreb concerning the provision of information about a criminal part of the former minister, i.e. criminal charges, not criminal acts. And now that conversation lasted five minutes, five minutes, which was why they called me and then asked me a cop, says you're friends with Anta Gotovina, I say I am, so tell me where Ante Gotovina is, I said down here in the bar drove, so wait for me, so don't say so, so I say, you're the police, I'm not the police, you tell me Mrs. Ante Gotovina and I'd like to know where my friend is, then ask me further, he hasn't died since General Bobetko, he says you're a friend and General Bobetka, I said yes, he says you're often hearing with him and you go, what you talk on the phone, I say you probably know what I'm talking about on the phone, but he says when you come to him what you're talking to him, we're talking about what people can talk, such a respectable man, general, general, general, and everything else he'll say, and he'll say, I'll say he'll say, I'll say, I'll say, I'll be Herzegovac, you don's not say, you don't say, you't say you't say you't say that you's he's he's he's he's the general and he's the general and he's the general, because he's he's the general, because he's he's he's the general and he's he's the general. Here's my example. And on this example, I want to tell you, if the powers are enormous, and in this process, irresponsible, unprofessional, politicised people are not going to achieve the purpose that this law wants to achieve. And that's what's dangerous, so we have to create to be in the right sense of "Skoke," as spoken in Senj, and we know what "SKOK" is, but to be people responsible, professional, professional, unsuspecting, and everything else. Because look at it like this, we're not going to do anything and we're not going to do what the Croatian citizens expect us to do, and for that we have to, I'm sorry that there is no minister, take appropriate measures to get there. So all the intentions that are normal for us to support, but we're afraid of these parts, we're afraid of what the way we've worked so far, because you know, look at this variant, you say you'll block the bank accounts, hope it doesn't apply, that it wasn't General Gotovina and his friends, and that will mean that criminals are going to work cash, it won't work through the bank account anymore. So take care and simulate everything and protect the interests of the Croatian state, Croatian citizens without politics, but professionally, responsibly and professionally. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27291	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Frano Piploic on behalf of the DC Club HSLS.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27292	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, Mrs. Bagic. It is known that Croatian legal experts know how to make good laws. However, it is also a fact that we often have problems implementing these laws. This is also the case with this existing Law that we have and which today, whose changes and additions we have on the Parliament's agenda today. The DC and HSLS club supports, gives full support to these amendments and additions to the Law on the Office for the Control of Corruption and Organized Crime in Croatia. We look forward to these changes and additions, because we see in these changes and additions at last one truly good will expressed political will for real dealing with corruption and crime in Croatia. Here is mentioned earlier, Mr Granic's case and other cases, where USKOK lost the battle, the legal battle, and in some ways he is ridiculed, ridiculed. We believe that now this Law, these amendments and additions come at the right time so that the Croatian public will not lose faith in the institutions and the possibility of protecting both the individual of society and of moral and social values. In addition to this legislative proposal, the legislation of the Republic of Croatia is in line with the legislation of the European Union and the legal acts of the Council of Europe, this proposal of the Law sets out precisely what has not been in force in the current USKOK Act. Ms. Secretary put it here in her opening statement, I'll briefly mention it, so now for the first time we have one catalog of those crimes. We have for the first time established, i.e. we will have a set up department to prevent corruption and public relations. We also have for the first time here the Department of International Cooperation. It is also a precise relationship between regular authorities and offices. Thereafter, a precise, or regulated question of the Office's powers in pre-examination proceedings is set out. This also mentioned a precisely regulated collection of data that represents a bank secret and ultimately what was rather unclear in the previous law, so the USKOK Office is part of the state's attorney's office. All this means, all these precise provisions suggest that the Croatian state, the Croatian society can finally get an institute that will be able to deal effectively with corruption and organised crime. However, I have started this debate with this that we know how to make good laws, but the problem is with their implementation. And one often wonders, who needs laws that cannot be implemented, which have such provisions that they are impossible to implement at a given time. And I think it's clear to everyone that such laws that are inconclusive that they generate one mess, one mistrust, one apathy in society and lead to one downfall and the reinting of politicians both those in political parties and those in government institutions. We were, we were aware of it or respected colleagues and colleagues. In Croatia we are at war in an aggressive war that has imposed corruption on Croatian society, state and Croatian citizens. The effects of this conquerive and aggressive war are visible. It's just that many of us don't want to see it, they don't want to accept that fact. I'll make a comparison. As in 1991, many in Croatia could not see or wish to see and believe that, let's say, the famous JNA will be a framework from which the aggression against Croatia will take place, it also seems that there are people in our society today, a group of influential groups who do not believe that corruption can endanger Croatia and its citizens. The Croatian Parliament is responsible for the start of war and peace. I want to believe that these amendments and additions to the USKOK Act will be an official declaration of war in the fight against corruption, bribes and other social diseases that thoroughly embellish Croatian society, the state, in particular the economy. It's not enough just to declare a state of war, to bring together experts, to establish an organization and, above all, logistics. We create the organization with these changes and additions. We also have experts. However, it remains disputed, remaining controversial logistics. And what is this logistics? I believe it's political will, true without the figurines in my pocket, all political parties and those who are in position and those who are in opposition, civil society, each individual. So those who are willing to deal with corruption in their ranks. When there's a war, there must be casualties in the war. The question is, who will be the first victim of the fight against corruption and crime in Croatia? As things stand now, no one wants to be the first, no one wants to sacrifice themselves. In fact, we all entered Croatia that way. I would like to visit a parable of an old covenant, and Abraham, according to the Bible, was tempted by our father, wanted to sacrifice his own son, and God liked Abraham’s willingness to sacrifice, so he offered him a substitution, offered him a sheep. What are we going to offer? We seem to be willing to sacrifice a lot, and I say to the last candidate in "guilty" from opposing ranks. If we take a close look at this material with an explanation of this Law, we will see that within the structure of corrupt criminal acts in 2002-2003, receiving and giving bribes account for 94% of these crimes. This information is very alarming, because bribery, its receipt and its giving, and abuse of the duties of state authorities are the most evil for Croatian society and state. Because they take a dangerous bite from within that society as a special kind of social wormhole. There were other words he had mentioned before me, pointing out the dangers that could arise in the application and implementation of these legal regulations. I am aware that the Proposer is also aware of the potential dangers as experience in our society points to such directions. I would mention, in the end, that there are certain things that I should put in place appropriate fuses so that, for example, the implementation of this Law would not turn into its opposite, so that there would be no persecution so-called persecution. small fish, and the large ones in some way escape, i.e. to make it impossible for this law to prevent individuals from accounting against individuals, especially those who are loud and who are loud and clear. In this regard, I would like to conclude my debate and give full support to this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27293	Thank you very much. Club IDS Honorable representative Damir Cain, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27294	Dear Mr. President, the esteemed representatives of the government, the distinguished gentlemen of the council! I agree with everyone who said before me that organized crime should be opposed, it should be prosecuted to the end of the world. If someone needs to be ruthless, then it's those who kidnap children, poison children with drugs, deal with terrorism that threatens one word of our safety. There can't be any pardonna. They need to be declared war, so to whom the captives, both of whom our people would say. That's where we need state authorities, to give state institutions also "resolved hands". Clearly, these institutions that deal with the prevention of organised crime must be monitored, they must be strictly controlled because Croatian recent history teaches us, and it is certainly so before that individuals, I also stress that individuals from these institutions, not institutions, are connected to the underworld, and they need to fight against it that I am emphasising individuals from these institutions, for example, intelligence miles were also related to drugs, and even in the ranks of high-ranking civil servants of the armed army there were also those who did so. So we must train the institutions to fight this evil, we must give them free hands but always so that they can act in accordance with the law and we must strictly monitor them. Without supervision, everything can collapse like a map tower and the institutions themselves can then turn into serious violations of human and any other rights. A single example of this bill is mentioned here, where all possible information should be provided to individuals from the USKOK on the basis of their oral request. Gentlemen, we are not a police state. The BOOK cannot be above the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. Two sentences only on intoxicating drugs. In Croatia 18 thousand 476 addicts are registered and the actual number can probably be obtained by multiplying that number by three, four or five. If we assume that drugs are mainly associated with young people then it's 14 to 27, 30 years doesn't matter, then it's even scarier because one tenth or one eighth of the population is still directly endangered. What about their parents, their families, other occasions. And they're threatened. Well, you're not gonna tell me now that you don't know things, that some individuals can't prove it. See now which houses they own, which apartments they live in, from which apartments in those houses were all emigrated by individuals we know to move in that mile. What every other citizen knows all of a sudden doesn't know the police, the state's attorney's office, etc. Everyone knows who's a drug dealer but because of the homerta silence that government in society seems to be overly silent. Finally, 37 people died in 1998 and as many as 95 last year in 2003. And if there's anything to add to that right now. But even though we have more and more registered addicts every year, and that is why I mentioned interestingly that we have less and less from one year to the next the most widespread and if you want the most terrible form of organised crime because everything else is being recruited from it. And in order not to keep anything in the air in 2003, it has been reported that the crimes referred to in Article 173 are those relating to drugs of 6 thousand 28 persons or 9.2% less than in 2004, and we all know that this is spread by one progression. So the bigger the problem is, more addicts, more drug dealers, and obviously someone's doing less work than he did a year ago. What is key to the IDS Club in this document is this Article 4(a) and Article 15(a) respectively. Here, as we see here, the Department of International Co-operation and Joint Investigation is formed, and among other things it is said that, in accordance with international agreements and other agreements, it is co-operated with the competent authorities of other countries and international organisations, it is not disputed, it determines members of the joint investigative bodies which, on the basis of an international contract or agreement or on the basis of an individual case-by-case basis, are established to investigate criminal persecution in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. In paragraph 2, in joint investigations in the territory of the Republic of Croatia, the Department of International Co-operation and Joint Investigations shall monitor the application of domestic legal rules and respect for the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia, etc. Not to read all these items. Gentlemen, what is necessary is that we must define the concept of this joint investigation. That's what we have to do. That's me thinking what might be the biggest failure in this bill. Without it, the law will not be complete and therefore it is good that this is about first reading. Don't let tomorrow happen to us or drag some analogy with that famous cash case that we're talking about right now. Cash or where the general was trying to reach the generals with foreign intelligence services in the operations in Croatia. There's no doubt, I keep pointing it out. Cash in the Hague, there must defend the dignity of its Croatian military, and so much would be stated in Article 21b where crimes of drug abuse and trafficking in human beings and slavery, kidnapping, international prostitution, pimping, etc. Maybe you should throw in a war crime. But it is not controversial, I will say quite openly, nor will the cooperation of the Croatian intelligence community with foreign intelligence services. This is normal, only if they can conduct joint investigations on the ground of the Republic of Croatia. Now, that is the point and that is why this concept of a joint investigation in this legislative proposal by Croatia and foreign bodies, and apparently that these investigations in certain actions will be carried out in the territory of Croatia should be clearly gentlemen and unequivocally defined to remove any doubt. In the event of particularly urgent actions by the State authorities under a special agreement, it is said that it is authorised to undertake independently in the territory of the Republic of Croatia to ensure that a foreign national body does not injure the integrity of the home or the right to personal freedom, dignity of the person, etc. Gentlemen, I believe that this particular article 15a should be very carefully defined. Second, it is this article 21b, which mentions, among other things, the abduction. I suggest that as soon as it happens, few such cases have been in the Republic of Croatia but there have been. The last case was taken by General Zagorec's son. So if this happens as it does in Italy, the property of the victim should be blocked immediately. Why? In order not to pass by the authorities, she's trying to settle for herself and thereby make it difficult for me to say first of all to myself but also to the police institutions. It may seem absurd to someone but it's only logical. If the institutions and the victims are avoided, it will be much more difficult. Thus, the simplest and most efficient fight against kidnapping is possible. As for Article 42 on the blocking of funds in bank accounts of those dealing with clearly organised crime, that is logical, I do not think it should be debated. Banks must, in that case, co-operate with state authorities on the side of a bank secret. But if USKOK makes a mistake, then that bank that may also have damage should be rehabilitated as it is, after a misjudged assessment in the case of former Minister Granic and Mr Baga UskoK must also give these people an apology, although I know that they will be the happiest to never mention them again. But what has been done in this case has violated their dignity and someone simply in that second step should be “rehabilitated” under quotes. A few words about the state's attorney's office, which is a board of directors of the Supreme Court, but before the fact that the chief of USKOK can comment on the decisions of the Supreme Court. We who are in the police force and we can, but he certainly has nothing to comment on. What was when we had a recent report from a state attorney here in front of me astounding me, these are reports of criminal acts on 100,000 inhabitants, among other things said that the highest registration of 100,000 inhabitants is in Istria. Even 4067. Then the Primorje-Gorski County is 2729, followed by Zagreb. So it turns out that in these areas where something is done that are the most economically developed is about the most crime. It simply does not stand, it does not correspond to the truth, while on the other hand the Croatian average is about 1900 and something. Why I don't know it that way, but I know it's not just a consequence of what happened. transit crime or high concentration of people in the season. So the most economically developed spaces are more to God, and here we have the largest under quotes "activity" of the state's attorney's office. For the end. IDS supports this Act. Please define this concept of a joint investigation here. In the fight against organised crime, you will have full support from the IDS, but I repeat, BUSKOK cannot be above the Constitution and fundamental human rights. That's true of our intelligence services, and that's true of the police, and that's also true of politics. Someone mentioned bribes before. If we were to decriminalize the donor here, we'd get to a much larger part of the unsub very quickly, and this way, through criminalization and donors, we're practically protecting the recipient. Until that changes that bread, unfortunately, it won't be. But all I'm saying is, in the fight against organised crime, the authorities will get full support from the IDS Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27295	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation. Dear Representative Miljenko Doric.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27296	I want to correct the wrong quote of Mr. Cain when he claims that the Croatian people are using a saying in which the nuns are mentioned, that is not true, it will probably confirm both USKOK and other services that are also involved.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27297	HDZ representative club, respected representative Emil Tomljanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27298	Mr. President, the Honorable Representative of the Government, the amendments in question and the addition of the laws are subject to problems in terms of the first order of operation of the USKOK as well as in terms of the application of the law in the Office for the control of corruption and organised crime. Introductoryly, I would also like to emphasise that the Croatian Democratic Community Representatives Club is absolutely in favour of this proposal and, of course, of its recent application. Questions, i.e. these questions, are mainly about four basic elements, so let me say something about them. The first question is, therefore, the cleavage and jurisdiction of the office in relation to the jurisdiction of the courts themselves. The second issue is important for the organisation of the office and special departments of the courts. The third issue of co-operation with the police or with the Ministry of the Interior and the fourth issue of office powers in the so-called so-called office. a pre-examination procedure. As regards the first question, the legal position of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia provides that there is an apparent gain between Article 333. Criminal law and provisions on criminal offences which, as a qualitative circumstance, are prescribed to commit criminal acts in the form of a group or criminal organisation. Thus, such a position of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia did not have the opportunity to act in certain criminal parts of organised crime where, primarily, the abuse of intoxicating drugs committed by criminal proceedings was primarily considered to have been organised and some other crimes which, without doubt, had passed on to the jurisdiction of regular courts. In this regard, it is also clear that during the investigation procedure for the offences in question it cannot require the implementation of specific safeguard measures. As for the second issue, therefore, it should be noted that the Republic of Croatia has ratified two very important documents of the Council of Europe. It is, in fact, a civil legal convention, corruption as well as a criminal legal convention on corruption. So, the documents of the Council of Europe. Monitoring the implementation of the Criminal Convention on Corruption is carried out by a group of countries to combat corruption and organised crime, so called... In terms of the functioning of the USKOK and the application of the above mentioned documents, the Republic of Croatia received several recommendations in order to improve the work of USKOK in a qualitative sense. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] These major recommendations relate, on the one hand, to the promotion of work and, on the other hand, to the co-operation of the Office with other state bodies. In addition to meeting international obligations to establish the central authorities of international co-operation in investigations of transnational organised crime, it is necessary to change unequivocally the establishment of an existing anti-corruption department as well as public relations in order to ultimately become operational under its structure. A particular problem in the current practice and the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia and the county courts and related to the functioning of the USKOK itself is that it is necessary to specify or further specify matters of jurisdiction. Namely, all cases of organised crime are not equally complex, so it is necessary in the permitted cases of delegation to specify the competences of municipal courts for the award of cases in work, therefore, for the award of cases in the work of competent courts. Furthermore, it is necessary to regulate more precisely the relations between the state's attorney and the regular authorities in the event of a fundamental suspicion that the criminal part of organised crime has been committed. It is also necessary to establish the interrelationships between the offices and other bodybuilding units of the State's attorney, or the State's Attorney's Office. The introduction of standards indicating the organised criminality of Article 7 of this Act should clarify, bring the criminal experience of the law enforcement body closer. In any event, it should also be pointed out that the previous investigation into the criminal offences of organised crime has been conducted in accordance with, of course, the general provisions of the Criminal Procedure Act and the specific provisions of the USHEC Act. So this is about processive or... This is therefore a matter of procedural or procedural provisions. In practice, those provisions have been confirmed as appropriate, as a rule as appropriate except as regards the collection of data representing a bank secret. The provisions of the Banks Act in practice have, in certain situations, made it impossible to obtain emergency data on bank accounts and on transactions representing a protected bank secret, most often related or related to benefits, to the benefit of criminal offences. Therefore, in the context of the amendments in question, specific mechanisms are provided for the provision of data for the purposes of the office. Finally or finally, given that the proposed amendments and additions are also working on, in terms of the formation of new offices, departments, opportunities for new employment, I would dare to say so by creating basic material and normative assumptions for better and more effective work of the Office for the Prevention of Corruption and Organized Crime. In each sense, in this sense we should also support all of the Government's efforts to ensure and ensure here, in this time of adoption of the budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2005, the appropriate resources in the State budget in order to make all these amendments and complement them in an organisational sense and, in any other sense, can actually be realised in such a way that, after the adoption of this Act, they can also be applied, applied in practice. Under all of the above, the Croatian Democratic Community's club will support the proposed changes and additions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27299	Thank you very much. Representative Libra's club, respected representative Jozo Radoš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27300	Thank you very much, Mr. President, gentlemen of the Ministry, colleagues and colleagues. So first, I have to say that on behalf of the Libra Club, we support the change of this Law, but this is an opportunity to talk a little bit more about broader, broader issues of corruption as a very important topic in every society, especially in societies that make the most demanding democratic institutions and, of course, respect and want to respect these most standards. Corruption is a problem that makes it very difficult for every country to develop and it is therefore important to pay particular attention to it, and of course the link between corruption and organised crime is quite clear. The corruption is always attended by representatives of institutions, therefore, mostly by state authorities, and most often has to do with organised crime because if that were not the case, it would be much easier to fight this great evil. These are therefore two related topics. I will speak a little more about corruption in this presentation than organised crime, noting, of course, that we accept all these changes that have been proposed in connection with the Law on the Office for the Control of Corruption and Organized Crime. It is certainly necessary to welcome the alignment with the Council of Europe conventions, the two conventions of the Council of Europe and the United Nations, and, of course, to the organisation of the USKOK that would go in this regard, and in particular to welcome the fact that the banking secret can serve or serve as a protection and as a barrier to the work of the Office for the Prevention of Corruption and Organized Crime. That's not usually a new question. It's a question that many countries face. It is very indicative that several years ago, the European Union, or its Commission, threatened Swiss sanctions because Switzerland challenged the law of the European Union Commission or its investigative authorities or the Member States of the European Union to obtain data contained in Swiss banks. Of course, according to some procedure and always in some criminal proceedings or investigations but this is therefore the slowness of one new institution, one new climate, which is that something that can have to do with any crime can be protected, and on the other hand, a Swiss tradition which, of course, for its own interests, protected the secrecy of bank accounts. Therefore, even in any of Switzerland or in relations between Europe and Switzerland, these relations are not fully clarified. It is therefore indicative, I repeat, that several years ago the European Union threatened even sanctions against Switzerland if Switzerland continues to hide and make such data inaccessible to the investigative authorities of the Member States of the European Union. That says how important the problem is. When we talk about Croatia, unfortunately we have to say that in 2004, Croatia fell from 59th place last year to 67th place according to the research "Transparents International." This is a very, very negative data especially if it is known that Croatia from 3.9 took a high place, better than last, in recent years, already in 2001. In 2001, Croatia had a perception of corruption in index 3.9 and then dropped to have a perception of corruption in 2003 of 3.7 and this year 3.5. It's something that's very, very worrying. So that's the perception of corruption. This is not corruption being investigated by some exact methods but by the perception of citizens and other entities in society who consider society to be corrupt to this extent. This is something very, very unfavourable, and the surveys conducted in Croatia not by "Transparents International" but by our institutions show in fact the very unfavourable state of perception of Croatian citizens about corruption. In fact, many Croatian citizens consider Croatia to be a king or government of corruption than they themselves had the opportunity, not an opportunity but a chance to face corruption on their own in their lives and work. What does that mean? This means that citizens think that corruption has much more than they have met on their own or generally saying that society is corrupt. It is a very, very dangerous perception because it is only a step from this perception that corruption has to the real growth of corruption. And that is why it is very important how government officials behave, that in this sense, government members, or those institutions that are in a position to deal with large amounts of state resources, and that is why the issue of civil servants' responsibility is, in particular, not a matter of criminal responsibility, but a question of really very, very strict respect for the highest standards and ethical codes. And that's why, of course, we're going to talk about it these days, but that kind of fact creates an impression, such an act creates the impression that everyone is actually corrupt. And of course, if they're all corrupt, then it's hard to expect that there's gonna be some kind of struggle for those who aren't corrupt because there's no such thing as big evil. I would remind here of one really big and good job that was done here in the Croatian Parliament on 21 March 2002 when the National Anti-Corruption Programme was adopted, but as we already know we are bringing programmes and we rarely actually respect them. The programme contains several very, very good provisions, which is that the policy of punishing corruption is too mild, which is the conclusion of this Croatian Parliament. I do not remember that in this sense we have done anything if this change of law and I cannot assess it, it goes in terms of tightening the criminal policy against corruption then it is certainly in line with what was concluded by the Croatian Parliament and according to the general trend in the world. Corruption is a very dangerous activity, and therefore it cannot be fined. Speaking about it in Croatia, the problem is that for a citizen who has no specific knowledge about it, therefore, he sees the issues of corruption as an ordinary average citizen in which I therefore choose myself. Is the problem that the citizen's record of corruption ends up being released in Croatian courts. That's the problem. While this is happening so that the perception of the average citizen that they are all corrupt, of course continues and strengthens Cases when someone closes the business of building some buildings in advance will pay with state money and then the performer fails and the state won't even get anything, the foundations won't be locked up, it comes to court and that person gets released. So what's there to judge? Isn't it clear that whoever did this is to blame? Or a case where someone lends private legal people big state funds and then forgives them and doesn't argue that he did it. And then, after five years, and eventually, probably as it has already happened in similar cases, he is released. In such cases, it is not only the issue of the Croatian judiciary. The judiciary cannot be much better than the society in which it operates, but it is also a question of Croatian laws. A question of the quality of the law that regulates these issues and possibilities for the Croatian judiciary to give a quality and fast word. But it seems to the citizen that the question is clear. That it's a crime that corruption is probably behind it. If this is about abuse of state resources, it's obvious no one's slowing down. And it's been on trial for years, and after that, there are acquittals. This has a powerful effect on an average citizen of the Republic of Croatia in terms of corruption. And such a cuneiform consciousness naturally fuels the growth of corruption. Speaking of our national programme, we should say that we have done something about it, but far from what we should do. We passed the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest, established a commission on the conflict of interest which operates on the basis of that law. The law is bad, it does not cover nearly all those cases of possible conflict of interest. It's only desirable at the highest political level. It's parading with property cards, it's not looking at who's really in the situation to be corrupt, it's looking into someone else's property, no matter what the situation is. And that's not the point of the law. The point of the law was to determine if someone was acting in a position to do something illegal. Abuse. So at that level, we have so far applied this Law, and I hope that this situation that we are in today will be such that we will learn some lessons from it. And indeed, this law and the work of the commission make it more effective in the fight against corruption. A corruption and organised crime control office was established, which should, of course, be welcomed. Of course, this office has a lot of difficulties in its work, but it must have produced some results and that's certainly a good direction. That's why I welcome these changes that have been announced. A public procurement office has been established, and a special law is set up by a state committee to control public procurement procedures. Two very important instincts. In countries where the state is so strong and according to our budget yesterday, we saw that the Croatian state in society is very strong more than it should be in liberal terms. It is very important to regulate the issue of public procurement procedures, so those procurement procedures in which the state participates. We formed the Public Procurement Office and the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures, but in fact, according to the budgets we saw yesterday on their implementation of the budget, and the two institutions did not spend a quarter of the funds allocated to them. That can't be a good sign. These are two very important institutions, especially this commission appointed by the Croatian Parliament so it should have a higher level of independence, I think it spent only 8% in half a year of its activities. So about 1 week of the funds she had at her disposal. Which, of course, is not good and can't be good. Therefore, these two bodies, especially this State Commission, should do their job. The law on the right to access information has been passed over the past few years. But in my parliamentary question, I have established by the government's reply that many elements of this law have not been implemented. It is too late to implement this also very important anti-corruption law. Finally, a very important commission for the implementation of the National Anti-Corruption Programme of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues have you heard of such a committee? Based on the National Programme adopted by the Croatian Parliament, the Croatian Parliament is forming a commission to implement the national anti-corruption programme. This commission was not formed on this very important commission that should be monitored by all these other institutions and procedures, there was no speech in either the Croatian Parliament or the Croatian public. And as our contribution and the fight against corruption and, of course, the finals and work of the Office for the control of corruption and organised crime, I will, on behalf of the Club LIBRE and we will propose on behalf of the Club LIBRE, to the Croatian Assembly to fulfil this obligation under the National Programme and to set up a committee of the Croatian Parliament for the implementation of the National Anti-Corruption and Organized Crime Programme. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27301	Thank you very much. Honorable representativeplatimir Mršić. He's gone. He's losing his word. Dear Representative Rade Ivas. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27302	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, gentlemen of the ministry, colleagues and fellow MPs. In order to combat corruption and organised crime, the Croatian Parliament adopted the Law on the Office for the Prevention of Corruption and Organized Crime on 28 September 2001. In 2002, the office was 396 rats and in 2003. 410 reported 261 people, 57 were convicted. 255 applications have been raised from the corrupt part. There are also works that put an burden on judges, state lawyers, county administrative authorities, which is certainly worrying. The office is certainly the most important part of the system in the fight against corruption and the addition of the Jumping Law before us will affect the more efficient functioning of the office. The office must be strengthened by both personnel and better equipment, and tighter defined powers. These changes will try to resolve several legal issues, which have proved to be controversial in the current application of this law. As is the issue of the work of the office and the jurisdiction of the courts, the organisation of the offices and the special work of the courts, the issue of co-operation with the police, the question of the office's authority in the investigation process. Thus, these amendments and amendments to the laws will amend those provisions which will ensure the full and unequivocal jurisdiction of the Office for Criminal Crimes committed by organised crime and corruption. The amendments shall, above all, cover the provisions of Article 21 in view of the occupied position of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia under which the Office is not responsible in the cases of criminal offences committed in the group or criminal organisation system. Namely, this decision excludes the main part of organised crime from the Office's jurisdiction, especially one which is transnational and for which, according to the international obligations of the Republic of Croatia, Croatia has decided to establish USKOK. The Office’s position is that, during the investigation procedure for those offences, it cannot require the implementation of specific audit measures or was no longer responsible for the conduct of criminal proceedings in relation to the mains, forms of organised crime. The taking of such a legal position in the jurisdiction of regular courts and regular lawyers has passed the offences of the abuse of intoxicating drugs that have been committed organised and then other criminal offences where, as a qualitative circumstance, the prescribed conduct of those offences by persons who have joined themselves to commit these offences. Since this was not the legal intensity of the legislator in the adoption of the law on amendments and additions, point 2 of Article 21 is amended in such a way as to establish a catalogue of criminal offences for which the Office is responsible, with the saying that it is the responsibility of the Office only if they are committed by a group. This shall ensure the competence of the Office for all forms of organised crime prescribed in Article 89(2). Penalty law. Surely, by mistake in Article 21b(1), the alignment of this article with the latest amendments to the Penal Code has been missed, so that it should be corrected and completed in the procedure with the criminal acts of child pornography on the computer system or network, computer counterfeiting and computer fraud. These amendments shall re-arrange the solutions to ensure the efficient functioning of the Office by appropriate newling of the law. Provisions on the powers of the Office on effective functional cooperation with the police and other state bodies are hereby amended and the relations between the State Attorney's Office and the Police will be more precisely regulated in the event of a suspicion that a criminal offence of organised crime has been committed as well as a more precise regulation of the police and the Office's relationship, as well as the application of those provisions which must ensure that the Office's leading role in the conduct of the reconnaissance in the previous criminal proceedings. So far, solutions to the role of the so-called Crown Witness or Repentant should also be reconsidered, as well as provisions to ensure the forced confiscation of any profits obtained by criminal acts of organised crime and corruption. Here, as far as these amendments are concerned, I think these changes to this law should be accepted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27303	Thank you. Dear Representative Joseph Leco.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27304	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Gentlemen of the government, colleagues and colleagues, of course, crime is increasingly organised on the principle of sound criminal rules and that the fight against crime requires a globalised world and a better organisation of the state. It's not a dispute. However, there are double criteria in globalisation in this problem, whether it is international relations, whether it is the Republic of Croatia itself. It does not contribute to the public or to the accuracy of the fight against crime. It seems to me that in these proposals we have succumbed to one psychosis of fighting corruption and organised crime by all means without the hierarchy of safeguarding social values upon which society must be founded. Namely, the rule must continue to apply in criminal law that the purpose of criminal prosecution, criminal proceedings, criminal law is to protect an innocent man, it is a fundamental task, not at all costs, at all costs, and without respecting fundamental rules, to prosecute crime. Why am I saying that? Because history is filled with the fact that such a situation is most often abused. Even nearer and further history warns us of that. That's why, in my court, not even a formula that says in law that it's state, that USCOK is a state-level attorney's office, creates competition between the state's attorney's office and the USKOK, which is not, it's not good for clean relations in the fight against crime. The other problem is, and colleagues have already pointed to this, which culminates the authority of USKOK, and there are already specialised bodies in the Republic of Croatia. This is again not aimed at the clean relations and precise powers of the bodies that we want primarily to fight organised crime. Unquestionably, it is indisputable that in these circumstances the USKOK needs to be supported, because it is not just about fighting corruption, and for this fight is a fundamental, fundamental decision politically needed, not about the Anti-Corruption and Organized Crime. In Croatia and the world, the country is the largest entrepreneur in general, including Croatia. It spends the most social money and absolutely political will can contribute more to curbing corruption than one office. If that's the case, we testify every day. We testify to that every day. This is why the pressure of civil society is expected for the state to specify its powers, its procedures and its actions, and not for more bodies to enable, let's say, as is the insight into bank accounts and bank accounts. There is already an Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering and Corruption, which has the powers to compete with these offices, would only lead to the abuse of that authority. If we add that the entire banking system in the world rests on the trust of citizens of savings and banks, and this trust is no longer based on a secret bank account, but on the discretion of banking and banking accounts, we can only imagine, and the banks are not in our possession, what all the consequences could cause, so to say the abuse of account control or insight into the accounts of citizens in banks. This does not mean that already now the Office for Money Laundering and the Office for Corruption cannot have insight into these accounts. This is already enabled by current regulations. That is why my assessment is that Croatia has built an infrastructure, institutional and legal to successfully combat corruption and organised crime, and there is only the need for an undeniable political will. The indisputable political will, which means that all bodies that are intended to function in society, which, of course, requires coordination, which is the State's Attorney's Office. That's why I'm in the introduction, and I said it's not good for Uskok to be called a special state's attorney's office. In the end or not less, it is the first reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the USKOK Act. My colleagues, who are lawyers now, have warned me of Article 42b of the bill, which allows for legal examination of an undercover investigator. Such legal option is not in line with the entire body of evidence procedure provided for under the Criminal Procedure Act which fellow lawyers consider to be a very strong legal option for the abuse of this institute, so it is necessary to amend the law, and then the whole concept of the Criminal Procedure Act, and so far as it is a special law to say lex specialis, it is necessary to comply with the applicable Criminal Procedure Act. This is Article 190(1). Law on criminal proceedings and Article 42 Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the USCOD Act. And another note. In order to successfully combat corruption and organised crime, it is necessary to be a materially independent office, an office fully materially independent and to make civil oversight of the activities of these services also independent because of its independence. So we need to have the left and the right, protecting innocents is nothing less important than protecting or fighting organised crime and corruption. In that sense, I will also support, and support and vote for the amendments to this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27305	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Krunoslav Markovnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27306	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. With the establishment of the Office for the Prevention of Corruption and Organized Crime, good marketing has gone, which has promised the endangered, disproved and deceived justice, the population of security, and the shortfall of USKOK has inexplicably reminded us of the righteous and impacting power of haystacks. So the message was, you sleep tight, and we'll sweep the evil off our streets. All of you who have abused the conversion will end up behind bars, the competitions will no longer be set up and so on. They immediately contributed to it and then ministers, because if they assign jobs to their companies, it is logical that there is no corruption. Spectacular arrests until then were only seen in Western crime-series, and almost all the media were involved in marketing. Television has often depicted the suspect's rude arrest. There was a lot of leprosy, muddy evidence, amateur and unprofessional approach. Since the USKOK and the media convicted and declared criminals connected in so-called The "criminal organization" has been released, the result is poorer than zero. After that, Uskok appeared to be a vampire because he started walking in the cemetery. A new spectacle with celebrities, new leprosy, insufficient evidence, or a repeated link to the main actors. The former coalition government, which USKOK was supposed to serve primarily for political accounts, accuses the judiciary of ineffectiveness, but sees wonders, is headed by the ministry as the minister from their ranks, and this has quickly been quieted down. Further justification for failure and the misery of the office are insufficient powers, and that's only true. USKOK needs to change a lot, especially the first man to work hard on personal promotion, more frequently appeared in the media than the presidential candidate, which is absurd for similar offices in other countries. It's the third story. USKOK receives a deliberately illiterate anonymous application of the alleged council members of the Municipality of the Council Sunday with several unbulful and even benign accusations. The BOOK reacts immediately and organises the investigation. Contracts of three - year periods have been reviewed, which thank God very much because much is done. Nothing was found and nothing was found. It's important to do something, and there's a pay to be justified. It reminded me overwhelmingly of the spring of 2000 after 3 January, only then did a similar job, similar paper signed by the SDP municipal board, the state's attorney's office, financial and CRIM police, and then nothing. The corruption that we talked about today and where on some scales we are falling ever lower and poorer, obviously that the information comes from our inhabitants, and interestingly, it was one of the main ones, those who explain how much corruption there is, Mr. Josip Kregar whom we know from the post-mortem aid affair and Croatia's insurance, and then we are not surprised actually because we always used to accuse ourselves of the best of ourselves. And a message to Jumper. Crimes are booming, and you're not reacting, so you're becoming logistics to crime, because your reluctantness leads to the idea of crime is gone and you're looking for a new job in gossip sections of the yellow press. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27307	Correction of incorrect allegations, respected representative Nikola Vuljanić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27308	Thank you, Mr. President. A colleague said USKOK was organised so that it should be used for political accounts. That's just not true. USKOK was organised to reduce organised crime, to prevent corruption, for no political accounting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27309	Dear representative Milanka Opačić. She's gone. He's losing his word. Honored representative Ruža Tomasic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27310	Dear Mr. President, the respected representatives of the ministry, colleagues and colleagues. I cannot be impressed that this Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law in the Office for the Prevention of Corruption and Organized Crime is yet another attempt to turn, by amending the law, something ineffective and by supplementing some members into something that will be effective by making these amendments and supplementing the law. That's what I'm saying because the data show that in 2003 it was for the crime in Article 333. The Penal Code in the Office was reported by 229 persons. Of the total number of reported 58 people were reported to be group organisers, 169 were reported to be members of such groups, and only two were reported as organisers of criminal organisations, while there was no application against members of these criminal organisations. As for... the crimes in 2003, the Office received reports against 108 people. Penalties of bribery were represented with 65 applications, followed by criminal acts of bribery represented by 34 applications, abuse of the duties of the state authorities of 5 applications, and 4 applications refer to the criminal offence referred to in Article 343. Penalty law, illegal mediation. But those who carefully followed the black chronicle in 2003 could see that all this was much more, and especially... criminal acts. The worst part is that a lot of these people were neither brought in, nor prosecuted, and look at the data on the convictions of those against whom the criminal proceedings were conducted, but that's why we're dealing with petty criminals from which no one stands. Is this about a criminal mile, that part of the police judiciary, or is it just a matter of ineffectiveness of the authorities, we have no evidence, but one thing I know for sure, a lot of things won't and can't change as long as politics gets involved in the work of the judiciary and the police, no matter how much we change the laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27311	Thank you. Dear Representative Ivan Chehok, five-minute debate on behalf of the HSLS Club DC.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27312	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, colleagues and colleagues. I'll remind you that we've just set up the same day in the Assembly, I'd say it's a mere coincidence, but that's how it happened when that horrible murder of Vjeka Sliška happened and no longer remembers, Ina Kapi, it seems to me, in the Flower Square office of the day in front of Croatian citizens. At the time, we discussed whether we would give USKOK the authority to enter privacy, whether we would give him the authority to follow, refer, so that he could take all the necessary actions by court order to prevent possible crime. We discussed human rights back then, and right then, somehow even in hours, two victims fell in broad daylight, victims according to organized crime. Since then, regrettably, there have been other and bombings and gunfights in the centres of Croatian cities, recently in Slavonski Brod. I'll also remind you that despite the fact that we've set up the BOOK and despite the fact that the former government has been very boastful of the police doing their job, today these criminal accounts are not enlightened and today we don't know who from the organized criminal underworld, the half world is doing and what it is doing. A court that is ineffective is not a judiciary. Per definitively, in order for the judicial authority to fulfil its purpose, it must be effective and the system must be consistent. Unfortunately, we have a Bounce that can't be said "beware of jumping hands" or "beware of shadowy arms". These are the leaps, unfortunately, that are not actually afraid of small children in this country. And as long as it is ineffective, our legal system will practically not be effective and the legal system will in some way be a little bit funny and will actually be condemned to deal with petty crimes or to act on anonymous reports that are most often really illiterate, rather than dealing with the real legions of organised crime. On behalf of the Club, I can say that we support the amendments to this Act. Corruption must be a cancer of the early Croatian society. Unfortunately, on a scale of corrupt countries we are growing, on a scale of competitive countries we are relatively lower. That's why I think the time has come for us to show the political will to really help UskoK become the body that will deal with all forms of organised crime, but also so that we as politicians finally start to deal with corruption because corruption doesn't just live here. It is not only the consequence of organised crime, it often springs from the Croatian public administration and public services, and today it is truly unimaginable that we have this administration and that practically often administrative actions are linked to corrupt activities. I think it is possible to prevent this, I will only mention an example of my city that will have a advertising centre and every client, every citizen will be able to track what happens to his question, what happens to any request or request addressed to the public service. And after a week, if that question is not answered, the mayor will know that the question is not answered for a week. It is possible to do so in any public service today, so I will say that right where corruption is most likely, let's say, the issue of building permits and consent can be imagined by such an electronic program that will allow every citizen to immediately see why he is not responsible after a week, and that the head of the competent public service also sees that some official is not responsible for preventing corruption. It's the same in the judicial authorities because of the litigation of the judiciary. Therefore, it is possible to do so. Likewise, our common debate, conflict of interest. Ladies and gentlemen, we're complicating and mystifying. Everywhere in the world, there is a simple model that prevents the conflict of the interest of politicians. It is a property and tax card at the end of the year from which it is very easy to verify how many taxes we have reported and how many assets we have acquired. Why does such a simple model not work in Croatia? Well, because that's probably how it suits us. Therefore, let us not discuss the committees, what mystifications of conflicts of interest, give the tax authorities the right to examine our assets and how many taxes we have reported. You'll see that no conflict of interest will ever come again.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27313	Thank you very much. Does the secretary of state, Snježana Bagic, want a final review? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27314	Thank you, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. At the end of the debate on the amendment and addition of the Law on the Office for the Prevention of Corruption and Organized Crime, in the first reading, allow me to thank all those who supported this text of the Law as just one of the measures, in fact, which will contribute to a more successful fight against organised crime. Of course, those who have made comments and suggestions to make this Law even better in the second reading. In fact, this debate has also shown that the general consensus exists, and there can be no discussion or doubt at all. That fighting organized crime is something without which even this society can't survive. On the other hand, how to fight it is a particular issue because given its nature, sophistication, covertness, measures, common measures are not enough. And therefore, of course, the powers of the authorities that are responsible for this, and there is, in the first place, the BOOK must be wider, but they must be limited, within the limits of the law. So here, the debate has shown that in the fight against organised crime and corruption we can speak at two levels. One is a legislative framework that must be good, well-coordinated, on the one hand. On the other hand, institutions which are competent and authorised for its implementation, which must be professional, well-trained, professional and mutually well-coordinated. So I say, this Law is just one measure and its good implementation depends on those who are in charge of it. It is up to the Government of the Republic of Croatia to offer a better law or framework which this House will ultimately adopt and this seems to be the bill. The reasons for its adoption have already been said enough, so I am not going to repeat it again for this pay phone. I would just like to point out that obviously the most interesting thing has awakened exactly a provision relating to some pre-examination measures as special reconnaissance measures such as this around the insight into bank accounts, bank accounts, and only for the purpose and purpose of revealing the property benefit that exists in these bank accounts. It does not include other assets and refers only to criminal offences for which USKOK is responsible, so organised crime and corruption. Of course, there should be a balance against unauthorized insights. Therefore, the applicant will also take account of this when proposing a final proposal. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27315	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Office for the Control of Corruption and Organized Crime, first reading, Bill No 189. The debate is closed. I give the vote the following conclusion: Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Office for the control of corruption and organised crime is hereby adopted. All objections, proposals and opinions will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare the final draft law. Please, let's get on with it. To vote. Score. I find that the conclusion was accepted by 103 votes for, 1 abstention and 5 against.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27317	We're going to the next point. (a) Report on the work of the HRT Council and on the implementation of the programme principles and obligations laid down by the Law on HR and HRT programmes in the period from 14 November 2003 to 30 June 2004, (b) Report of the Directorate on the operation of HRT in 2003, (c) Report of the independent audit of the financial reports carried out for 2003 in accordance with Article 19. The Law on Croatian Radio Television to the Croatian Assembly has been submitted by the following reports. The debate was conducted by the Committees on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System, Information and Information and Media, Gender Equality, Human Rights and Rights of National Minorities, Finance and the State Budget and the Committee on Immigration. Reports you received at the session. The Government of the Republic of Croatia delivered an opinion. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, it's 11 and 45 o'clock. We should have a vote at 15 o'clock. I plead to the club representatives, the MPs who signed up to take care of this time so that we can finish this debate, let's try this debate really and finish it by 3:00. I would like the President of the HRT Programme Council of Mr Zdenko Leviak to further explain the proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27318	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen. The report on the work of the Programme Council of the Croatian Radio and the implementation of the programme principles of obligations under the law on Croatian Radio Television for the period from 14 November to 30 June 2004 was unanimously adopted and sent unanimously to the Croatian Assembly on 9 July 2004. The atmosphere in which the Croatian Radio Television Council was appointed was also a sign of the division and pre-determined suspicions of the future and the efficiency of the council in this composition. The media has often pointed out that the Council is composed of two political options and that it will take a short while. For these and similar assessments, members of the Council were already under increased public supervision at the beginning of their work. Such a situation has had a significant impact on the conscience and responsibility of the Council members to resist any kind of pressure and to find ways for the body to work responsibly both in the public interest and in Croatian broadcasting. The high level of accountability is reflected in the fact that the Council is based on very strict debates and often contradicted views of individual members always reached the necessary level of consent in order to make the decisions necessary by law to a particular majority. The first very important task and request of the Council was to adopt the statutes, which is to assume that the Law on Croatian Radio Television is in practice to apply. As the Law on Croatian Radio Television failed to resolve many important issues for the functioning of Croatian Radio Television where, even in 24 of its articles, such an opportunity was made for the members of the Council to come to this job and after several long-term sessions voted the Statute of Croatian Radio Television and thus created a presumption of further work. Taking into account the financial resources of Croatian broadcasters acquired from the fee and the obligation for Croatia to order 10% of the total television programme, except for the information emissions, sports events and games and promotional messages from independent production companies and for the procurement of the programme, the independent production companies must allocate 10% of the annual budget, for the production of the TV programme the Council paid particular attention to preventing the possibility of conflict of interest. The provisions of the Statute of the Croatian RadioTelevision have therefore included a provision establishing the inability to choose a public tender procedure for those production companies, which are owned by members of the Council of employees of Croatian RadioTelevision as well as members of their family rope or in which the shares have a share in the underlying capital. Another very important task of the Programme Council of Croatian Radio Television was to create conditions for regular business of Croatian Radio Television or to call a tender and to implement the selection of all administrative structures provided for by the Law on Croatian Television. The election of the Director-General, Director of the branch, Director of the Programme and editor-in-chief of the Information Programmes of the Croatian Radio and Television has been carried out very professionally in a way that has left no doubt about the regularity of the procedure at any time to any candidate in the competition or member of the Council. The Council has done its job transparently and responsibly to the majority of votes received by secret vote. These tasks have been carried out as soon as possible and are very important for the stability of functioning at the time of Croatian broadcasting, which is the time in which Croatian broadcasting stops the monopoly in the field of electronic media. With the coming of competition as a public service, Croatian broadcasting as a public service is set up very complex and demanding tasks. As pointed out in the debates at the Croatian Radio Television Council in the adoption of the Statute before it is a major commitment to a thorough reconstruction, resulting in an even better quality programme and content that is in the general interest of the public, while at the same time expecting a reduction of costs in the production of the programme and the implementation of rationalisation in all segments of the work of Croatian Radiotelevision. Notwithstanding the fact that the Council has been overly concerned during these 7 months at the 10 sessions held to resolve previous issues, it has, with all its work, defined its role to monitor the implementation of programme principles and obligations through discussions on the implemented programme between the two sessions. In order for the Council of Croatian Radio Television to carry out its supervisory function in the implementation of the programme principles, the Council of Croatian Radio Television should provide professionally prepared analyses and a report on the implementation of the programme, and the Council of Croatian RadioTelevision expects the establishment of a professional service that will carry out public-based analyses of the programme and report on this to the Programme Council and the Council of Croatian RadioTelevision. In addition to such reports that could be appreciated by the public, the Council has installed in the State that programme directors and editors-in-chiefs work twice a year for a council to be discussed, I have yet to, in fact, complete my term, thank you very much, and I am at my disposal for asked questions.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27319	Thank you very much, Mr. Lefty. Mr. Mirko Galić, head director of HRT.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27320	Your Honor, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. I am very honored to have another opportunity 5 in my term in front of the Croatian Parliament to present and defend business results, business and wider activities of Croatian Radio Television. I am also very pleased with the fact that another report that you have received and that you have certainly studied well in preparing for today’s debate in your spirit and in your basic results is positive. It is positive on all plans, on which it can be measured but behind these positive basic positive results we do not hide all problems, failures, weaknesses that are still emerging and that are not so easily removable. We worked to maintain a stable line of our development and business, I am here first of all to defend the business of Croatian broadcasting, but we have worked equally to remove all the weaknesses we have seen in our work. The independent financial audit report gives you a thorough assessment of our business as shown objectively and realistically with permanent weaknesses and irregularities which are less than they were in previous years but are still present with a tendency to improve and result in business and business policies. In the short time that is at my disposal, I would like to present the business and operation of Croatian radiotelevision in its essential segments, i.e. on important plans. First on the program plan. Croatian radio and Croatian television in the past year have primarily achieved their basic, social and legal function. They informed the Croatian public and organised programmes according to programme orientations that were verified on the Programme Council. Croatian radio broadcast daily, emphasising 240 hours a day. Croatian television 57 hours of program, of which 33 and a half hours or about 60%, which is the legal obligation of the domestic own programme. Music production as an essential part of the cultural function and cultural mission of Croatian broadcasting, which is often forgotten, took place in 365 days as much as 127 shows. It is a very important cultural action, with Croatian radiotelevision supporting one important part of Croatian culture, music, but with music it also supports another important part of Croatian culture, it is a film, as it supports to a lesser extent other parts of Croatian culture and art. In the course of last year, which is on the agenda of today's debate, Croatia launched two programmes, one "Glas Hrvatska", a radio program that broadcasts 24 hours for Croatian emigration and is available almost on all parts of the globe and the other is "Figure of Croatia", a television programme that is broadcast simultaneously from Zagreb for northern America, South America, Australia and New Zealand for 8 hours and repeat, so that 3 repeats of this programme of 8 hours are really available to Croatian emigration on all parts of the planet. Of course, one of the important values of the programme is its independence and freedom that has reached standards that apply in European countries and European televisions. It is a fact that can make us who are responsible for Croatian radio and you who determine the legal conditions that monitor the success or failure of the activities of these two media institutions. It is understood that freedom and independence are largely conditioned by the level of professionalism and professional maturity. Not once have we said, confessed and I say and admit it and now that we have problems on this plan, but we do not intend to solve them in any way by questioning the value of independent and free journalism, independent and free plural information. This is the value that today makes Croatian TV and Croatian Radio or Croatian Radio as a common house not a problem in relations between Croatia and European and other international institutions, which has been known for some time. On the business plan, it was also stable with incomes that grew 12% compared to the plan and 10% compared to the previous year with which it was measured. At the same time, not to be too satisfied, expenditure grew faster, increased by almost 14% more than was planned and by about 11% more than in 2002. The fight against costs and against, and for rationalisation, is a strategic business obligation and orientation of the directorship and business management of Croatian Radio Television. But with all or some unskilled weaknesses which, and the irrationalities we are facing, we must respect some objectively new elements that have arisen, which is that with the appearance of competition has increased the value of all the rights we buy, in order to keep our best staffs on average, but especially for the best, most valuable personnel in both journalism and technical and other parts of the house. But all in all, with all the problems we've had, the business year of 2003 ended with 67 million surpluses, it's not a profit that would be a profit in that classical sense of some other companies or companies, it served exclusively development and if it will continue to be achieved, serve the interests of development. We have on the business plan certain uncleared old disputes, tax first of all, from the time of 98, 99 and 2000 but also later they are also the subject of discussions, discussions and coordination procedures between Croatian broadcasters and relevant ministries, i.e. their services. On the development plan of the past year it has been very successful because we have achieved almost all the goals set in the medium-term investment plan, so we have largely managed to achieve the dynamics of digitisation of our technology. Radio and television have almost fully completed digital equipment, not only in the information program, which was the first in line, but also in other programmes so that today, at the level of technological equipment and digital drive, we are quantifiable with better or even best European broadcasters. As time comes to completion, I will also say that the biggest problems that we face in the plan of organisation and rationalization of internal business, as much as we have undertaken thorough preparations, have engaged external and domestic audit and consulting companies, we have prepared projects and strategic programmes for all the important moves that we must take to reduce the burdens from human work to the irrationality that we face in our business. And for the end of the day, there will certainly be questions I will answer. I'll say that over the past year there's been years of stable development, years of investment in equipment, new technology, and that trend continued this year. Croatian radio-television has moved from a monopoly position to a market position, where it has a strong competition of two relevant not only European but also world televisions. We need our program, and at all our production skills to lift as much as possible, but the biggest and best answer will be to raise the quality that will be at the level of the production technical conditions we have. I thank you for your patience and for your understanding and appreciation for your time, I will stop here. And all possible issues that will arise in the debate, I will be willing and ready to answer them later. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27321	Thank you. Anybody want a reporter, everyone's filed reports? Dear representative of the Committee on Information, Information and Media, Željka Antunović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27322	Mr. President, gentlemen of fellow Members and colleagues. On 21 September 2004, the Information, Information and Media Committee of the Croatian Parliament discussed the report on the work of the HRT Council and on the implementation of the programme principles and obligations established by the laws and programmes of the Croatian Radio and Croatian Radio Television for the period from 14 November 2003 to 30 June 2004. At the same time, the Report of the Directorate on HRT's business was discussed, which was submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Programme Council. The independent audit report, the revision of Zagreb d.o.o. on the audit of financial reports carried out which forms an integral part of the management’s business report. I would like to note in particular that the Committee has examined these reports as a parent body. In the opening statement, it is pointed out that Article 19 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union states that the conditions laid down in Article The Croatian Law on HRT must be submitted at least once a year to the Croatian Parliament on its work and implementation of the programme principles and obligations laid down by law in Croatian Radio and Croatian Television programmes, as well as reports from the Directorate of Business. However, as the Croatian Parliament appointed the Council only on 17 October 2003 and the Council's constitutional session was held on 14 November 2003, this report mainly deals with the work of the HRT Council since it was a period of constitution and less with the implementation of programme principles and obligations. This note is important, given the criticism later in the debate. So, the Council itself has found that there are some shortcomings in the report itself. During the reporting period, two basic tasks were the adoption of the HRT statutes and the creation of conditions for regular operation of HRT, i.e. the selection of leaders, which ensured the avoidance of the state of temporaryity, and opened up a space for stronger restructuring and development that we expect to take place and that we will be notified of this on the next occasion. It has been noted that HRTs have been on the rise for four years in a row. The business is stable, and a large and significant investment cycle has started, which was just then repeated by the director. The year 2003 was the year of development and investment, which produced 12% more than the plan and 10% more than 2002. The revenues in that year were 55% from the tax and 35% from the marketing title. Daily broadcast 246 hours of radio and 57 hours of television. What makes Croatian Radio-Television stand side by side with radio TVs of developed countries. In the discussion, the Committee members found that the reports were good and should be supported, but it also drew attention to some shortcomings and shortcomings. The following opinions, comments and proposals are thus presented. As far as the program is concerned, there is no analysis of the ratings of the individual programs. There is also a lack of analysis of the domestic implemented programme, and the delimitation of the produced programme from the one which has only been processed. It was also important to highlight the time of the broadcast, because, for example, in the cultural programme, movies are broadcast beyond 23 hours when ratings are very low. It is also not stated how many programmes there are from European audio visual space, is the provisions of the European Convention on Cross-border Television respected, and how much is the share of the domestic programme? It has also been pointed out that it was also necessary to establish a audience service and take care of the satisfaction of the programme, as public television must take care of the diversity of the programme and meet the needs of different stakeholders such as national minorities, religious communities, disabled people and the like. Furthermore, the issue of the digitisation of HRT has been raised, as well as the new platforms and services that occur. In this context, the problem is highlighted that there is no digitalisation strategy at national level, and this is proposed as one of the tasks of the future Committee itself. There was too much difference in investment investments between planned and realised. So it's planned for investments of 222 million kuna and realized around 193 million. In the next report, it would also be necessary to prepare a comparative analysis in the financial section with another television to gain market insight. As a particular problem, there were too many employees who were over 3.5 thousand at the end of 2003. And the observation has been made that the organisational and personnel structure of the employees from which it would be seen is not given, does the program be created by professionals and do they meet the needs of professions, jobs and times? There is also a lack of ratio of employees and external associates in the report itself. It is also stressed that the Dnevnik is a central information emissions and also a more visible emissions in which news must be classified by their importance. Here's the important professionalism of journalists and openness for every criticism. Their task is to provide objective information free of political and other pressures. Finally, a comment in the language spoken on television was made, and it was said that such a situation should be corrected by better education. It also draws attention to the fact that language shows go on in terms that are not too watched. Members of the Committee in the debate condemned all pressures on the HRT Council. They supported his work, which was assessed as professional and responsible, and which is also seen in the fact that despite the strong debates that preceded and the opposing views of individual members, the majority of the Council decisions were taken by consensus. After the debate was held, the Committee decided unanimously with 9 votes to propose the following conclusions to the Croatian Parliament. The report on the work of the HRT Council and the implementation of the programme principles and obligations laid down by law in the HRT and Croatian Radio programmes shall be adopted during the period from 14 November 2003 to 30 June 2004. The report of the Directorate on HRT's operations is also accepted in 2003, together with the report of the independent audit on the audit of the financial reports carried out for 2003, which is an integral part of it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27323	Thank you. Is there another committee reporter who wants it? Committee on Immigration President-in-Office Zdenka Babić-Petricevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27324	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen! At its 9th session held on 3 November this year, the Immigration Committee discussed the report on the work of the HRT Council and on the implementation of the programme principles and obligations set out in the Law on HR and HTV Programmes in the period from 14 November 2003 to 30 June 2004 and the Report of the Directorate on the operation of HRT in 2003 submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Programme Council of HRT. The Committee discussed the report as an interested working body for the work of reports concerning programmes intended for Croatians in neighbouring countries, Croatian emigration and the Croatian national minority. In the opening statement, the HRT representative informed members of the board on the new programme scheme, arguing that this is a major quality shift of the HRT Council will continue to monitor the work of the HRT Programme Council and for the next programme council report will be one year. HRT director Mr. Mirko Galić reported that the business of HRT in the fourth year is consecutively positive. The digitisation of total production shall be carried out. A 24-hour TV programme by Vosa Hrvatska was launched in May. Now you're listening all over the world. HRT shifts to new technologies, major TV shows can be seen in all parts of the world. So far, HRT has borne all the broadcasting costs for Croatian emigrants. It is now proposed to code the emigration program in Canada and North America, and the emigrants will have to buy special cards to watch TV programs. In return, gentlemen, a richer programme is expected from culture, education, economy and science. During the debate, HVIDRA expressed dissatisfaction because it had not been able to respond to HVIDRA's offer of documentary show prepared and sent to HRT for a month. No statement was published or referred to HRT's offer to HVIDRA of the Republic of Croatia at that time. Director Mirko Galic replied that he was not familiar with this and that HVIDRA would respond in due course. The opinion was also given that the information programme saw a negative trend in showing Croatian reality, reaching out for yellow topics and sensations. The public also has the right to know the good that our Croatian society certainly has. HRT is expected to promote both well and all those values that are their own healthy, democratic and plural society and to be in the service of objective information, with HRT not being commercial television. In the follow-up to the debate, Mr. Director presented the issue of broadcasting to Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina, Montenegro and Vojvodina because HRT lost the right to ground broadcasting so that Croatians in BiH remain able to cable or satellite the HRT programme. The president of the Committee on Immigration announced and asked for a meeting with representatives of HRT, Herzegovina TV and representative of KIS TV, Croatian TV from Kiseljak and representatives of the Foreign Ministry. Participants in the debate stressed the importance of this issue, i.e. how to better inform Croats in the world. It has been suggested that Croatians in Bosnia and Herzegovina be given access to the Croatian satellite programme at symbolic prices due to a weaker economic situation. Director Mirko Galic promised to take a look at the proposed options to make Croatia's Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina more accessible. The debate ended with Mr Galic's promises that he would take care of the comments made by lawmakers. Following the discussion, the Committee on Immigration decided unanimously to submit the following conclusions to the Croatian Assembly: The report on the work of the HRT Council and the implementation of the programme principles and obligations laid down by the Law on HR and HRT programmes in the period from 14 November 2003 to 30 June 2004; secondly, the Report of the Directorate on the operation of HRT in 2003. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27325	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. IDS representative club, respected representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27326	Dear Mr. President, the esteemed representatives of Croatian Radio Television, the distinguished gentlemen of the Parliament! The IDS will vote for this report and we will fight for the independence of that media house. The Council of Croatian Radio Television was appointed at the last session of last session of the Assembly on 17 October 2003. So, Croatian broadcasting is now run by people who enjoyed the trust of the majority, the former parliamentary majority. That's what it's got to be clean about. What will the current majority do I don't know but IDS advocates that people don't change before their term is over. In the council, six council members were appointed by the majority, which was then the majority and now is the minority and five of the minority that is now the majority. So, today, the opposition is ahead of me, but I'm going to do it one more time so that people don't change before their term is over. Croatian broadcasting is a public enterprise. It is a 100% state-owned company, and whoever is in power has a responsibility clearly to operate a system that annual incomes a billion 393 million kuna and that almost 771 million kuna from the subscription, a million 200 thousand citizens of the Republic of Croatia. It should also be said that Croatia's broadcasting revenues were higher by 150 million kuna in 2004 compared to 2002. So, the government is clearly responsible for the orderly functioning of Croatian broadcasters as well as the INA, as well as Croatian railways, I do not know Croatian electricity, Shipbuilding or Jadrolinija, it is not disputed. However, it would be controversial if people were to go after people. For me, however, it is not a controversial assembly of councils. Only one thing can be disputed is that these people who are at the head of today's Croatian Radio Television allow for the orderly functioning of Croatian Radio and other things that matter most whether these people or whether they allow independence when information emissions are on Wednesday. This is the other thing for us sitting in this House, the key, the most important. Therefore, I will personally commit to this detail whether Croatia will lead the radio and whether it continues to be run by people who will be independent of the people of the parties in power and the strongest opposition parties because some political option such as IDS certainly has no effect on Croatian broadcasting. But we don't complain and it would be illusory to sue and lie if we said that IDS is marginalizing. However, I would like to note the following. First, the television information program is changing for the better. When I'm talking about changing for the better then I'm clearly thinking about a longer period of time than, say, the last four and a half, four years. But the second after a lot of bile controversy led by the President of the Parliament just before the start of the autumn session of this House, the case of fitness and some thought about... Once again, there are little estimates in the Central Journal but now in favour of President-in-Office of the Parliament. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I am not running away from the fact that, to paraphrase our president, the President of the Republic is represented. Clearly because he must be no matter what we have entered in the last month and a half until the presidential elections, so he can't today, I don't know President Mesic has the same timing as any other presidential candidates. When they are presidents, then they will certainly be in the media advantage of others. Second. The IDS is particularly interested in the position of the Parliament, so to monitor these sessions. If those were to come into question, then I would not be told, Croatian Radio, Croatian Radio Television should not be paid by subscription. Why? Because small parties can mostly get to media space. This is clearly said in Croatian media, in their functionality, it says that some news, idea or infancy is not news. Sometimes news is polarization and so on. I agree with a single statement from Mr. Shex when he said that the Parliament doesn't have that media weight that should have one Parliament above, I'll add which can be just... And then we'll see each other here, canceling one hour of assembly sessions in that time from 9.30 to 10:30. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, this position is not blamed again for the people on Croatian radio television, nor Mr Galic, nor Roncevic, but for this position are the people who lead this House who allow the executive power to dominate the representative power. From that position comes not only then the media neglect of Parliament but also under quotes one second-rate position of Parliament in public life where it has succeeded in turning MPs into publicly insane responsible for all but essentially powerless, especially powerless, especially if they are from the opposition to influence anything that is happening. All of this would change, clearly, if there were a direct election of MPs. Every journalist is in a stronger position than the MPs, by the director, let's say some media, I won't talk about it at all, about the assistant minister, which is, and we all know what public function she is, or the director of a public firm, and modelly speaking. One more time I'm going to say, everything would change if the MPs were elected directly. However, regardless of all positions of Croatian broadcasting must be objective, it must be impartial, it must be true and it must be clear that I am somehow experiencing evenly represented information. It is also clear that Croatian broadcasting must be an income house, about it a little later. But once again, let's not let the transfer of Parliament be abolished because in that case all power will be moved to the government, to large capital and to those who decide on this public life. One more thing I'm going to say. Journalists, not only Croatian broadcasters must not be politically engaged, although they do so in Istria regularly for at least a few months before the elections start because the objectivity, or credibility of their inscriptions, arises. It may well be that the competition came to Croatia. It's not a good thing it's going to lead to the layoff of workers mostly in these little maybe studies but competition certainly doesn't have to be a bad thing. But because, in the end, any competition will profit I don't know, citizens lower prices, higher quality services, higher choice when the media is on Wednesday. The crucial moment for Croatia's radio television as I experienced it was the takeover of the football match Croatia-Sweden from their rival. It is one signal and one mastodont such as Croatian Radio Television must also start to change. You only heard about external cooperation before you paid 203 million kuna. These are author's contracts, work contracts, student service while 371 million kunas are paid. It should be pointed out and this is certainly a positive good, investments of 193 million kuna only so clearly is television can deal with competition but the undeniable may not be a programme with so many staff. I will not waste my words on the business audit, but Croatia's revenues are billions and 400 million kuna and 771 million kuna are collected from the subscription. Croatian broadcasting we all agree has a huge power. Neto could say that one who controls Croatian broadcasting if it were so would rule Croatia. Therefore, Croatian broadcasting must not be undermined by the influence or interest of any political group. The same is true for other studies, and it is hypocritical, I don't know, when individuals may be out of the media showing and silent election aspirations. I don't mind, but then let them withdraw six months before the election from the media house. If they don't, it's all farce. Large capital and media, not parties like the public sometimes experience tomorrow, will be aware of this if not even today. Croatian broadcasting, therefore, must be drawn from this by public television for the sake of its independence. The tragedy of Croatia is that the country will clearly be increasingly dependent but it is so elsewhere and in the world of capital that will manage this country. The capital is clear to the media. The strongest capital is the media. In many countries politicians are media contractors. And so it really raises the question of how to get objective, true, real, one word of unbiased information. Clearly, the media must be an independent, independent objectivity in the media space of the Republic of Croatia must in some way be led by Croatian radio television because Croatian broadcasting is the strongest and thus the most influential medium. I will repeat, means media independence in the territory of the Republic of Croatia even though someone will throw me that I am tendant must be led by Croatian radio television but not to end the assembly sessions, come on, a little joke, and therefore clearly IDS will always fight. To us who do not know, imputes power in Istria, questions are raised what do we have other than legitimacy? So let's say the budget of the County of Istria is 7x less than Croatian radio television can be affected almost by nothing, the police, the court, don't let God even talk about the media I won't even talk about. And that is why we are as interested as no one in this House may be, or as everyone in Parliament, that Croatian broadcasting remains an independent house. It doesn't matter, I'm going to say who's going to be the director, who's going to be the editor-in-chief, etc., member of the council, it's important that these be responsible people to understand what powers they have and to remain objective and independent. And once again, I'm going to say, clearly these people don't need to be changed until the term of office is over and if, and I'm deeply convinced of that, they're doing quality work and they're doing their job. Nothing more, it means nothing less than that! The IDS Club votes in favour of this report and let the members of the Council, the Director and others expire. There, that's what I was going to say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27327	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative Maria Byte.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27328	Thank you very much, Mr. President, speaking of the television broadcast of the assembly sessions and this reduction in one hour, Mr. Cain, has claimed that the people who run this House are guilty and create TV broadcasts. This is not only incorrect, but Mr. Cain deceives the Croatian public because it is part of the programme scheme and independent decision of the Croatian Radio Television leadership. And even if someone is present in TV programs as a conscious representative, then it's really a colleague of Cain's. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27329	And a second correction by a respected representative of Jure Bitunac.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27330	Thank you, Mr. President, dear colleague Cain has claimed that the government, through HRT, dominates the media space of respected counterpart Cain, has claimed that the government, through HRT, dominates the media space and that the Parliament, and through it are also small parties in a subordinate position. I have to say that it's simply not true and looking from the parties' point of view then I have to say that, before and after the last HDZ elections, the campaign was in a position to run over the messengers as it was in ancient Greece when Fidipid announced Athenian's victory over the Persians in 490s on the marathon. That was our situation ahead of these choices. So this government, since HDZ makes it most of it, is absolutely this finding he made, absolutely incorrect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27331	Thank you. SDSS counseling club. The Honorable Representative, Ratko Gajica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27332	Mr. President, Mr. Director and President of the Programme Council, colleagues and colleagues. I also want to consolidate here two things that seem to me to be indisputable and probably agreeable. HRT is a public and independent institution and has the right to edit its own programme from this position. That's not what I mean. In addition, it seems to me that there is another thing going on, and that is that full responsibility from that position of self-editation and independence arises and responsibility for, the results and consequences resulting from this. And this first that HRT is an independent institution we support without a reserve. And the fact that she's responsible for it, I think she's also standing without a reservation simply because it's going with each other. Next thing. HRT is strong, very powerful in the design of our people's opinions and behavior in an extremely large number and independent of what education is and what their wallet is like. This means that, in particular on the ground floor, HRT has an exceptional impact. I'm going from that position of HRT influence and what opinion and behavior are produced to say two things: I'm going to actually say something that seems to me to be two phenomena. The first thing is, and that, I want to point out, I mean space and people in areas of special state care or if you want in areas of return simply because it's a multiple space with, with specifics in which to live. The first thing is, I certainly hope that we're getting out of that time, but the people in those areas live in conditions of mutual opposition. You can put that in quotes and you don't have to. When I say that, then I mean in terms of conflicting interests, then I think they're in conditions where people think they're bothering each other. Then I think that sometimes they either get it or they don't understand it. Sometimes they don't like each other, sometimes they hate each other. It's a situation we need to bridge gradually. I'm aware of that, but I just want to say that the effects resulting from HRT's action are going to that ground. The next thing I know, ordinary people on the ground floor are put into that situation very often through their will, beyond their will. They're simply placed in a given situation. They are largely subject to manipulation. Maybe I could tell the fraud even if it's too heavy a word. And it goes, and there goes another thing like a phenomenon. It's exactly where everyone's watching what the radio and television are going to say. Everyone's watching. And everyone, as they say, drinks healthy for almost what's been said. I'm going to say one thing that's hot, which I've heard relatively before, which is also worth the time we're hoping to get out of. One told me a nice thing: the average Croat and the average Serb think they can't do it together at this time. And then it's worth it until the moment they say otherwise on TV. We can either agree on it or we don't have to. I think there's something about that. Could be, could be more than that. Of course, I can, gentlemen who defend the position here and the HRT report, disagree with that, but I think that results in their extraordinary influence. It seems to me, if you will, both human and professional responsibility for what effects are produced. I want to add something else. I don't think, of course, I won't salt my brains out to people who know better than I do. HRT is not just an institution that provides information because it would only be then, then it would be a technical question. And I think that, in fact, all the time I've been saying, HRT is in my opinion an exceptional subject in information that has a role, which has a possibility, which knows how to do it and which is responsible. Why am I bringing this up? Because it seems to me that sometimes, sometimes people from HRT and therefore the most professional act in a way like they actually provide information. And then something if, if, if I put myself in a position to intervene, I could transfer something. Then I can say something or I can't say it. Then I can point something out or not point it out. I can even point out wrong. Then I can cover something up. Then I can ask you a question, and I can't ask anyone else, so on and so forth. Anyone who's an information subject shouldn't forget that because otherwise we're entering an area of manipulation. And because of these phenomena that I've mentioned here, media manipulation is possible for you. And it produces terrible consequences. I'm going to say something that, what, about this when, when, I think it's actually a key thing: let's tell people what the facts are and what's true. And the facts and the truth is what of course known technology determines that it is. It can be after the investigation, it can be after something that's completely clear, it can be understood. But the fact is, there's not much to explain now. I stand for, so what I think is important. If the facts and the truth indicate that someone is to blame for the extent that a criminal is to be strongly said and those are to be persecuted vigorously. Now, there's a line where I think there's got to be a memory of something else. And if someone is that and that, it doesn't have to be his family that, it can't be his place that I don't pick up on. Now that's something that seems human and professionally sensitive to me, and it seems to me that we should pay more attention to it. Here I'm going to do a two-year-old who's the product of the one who's distorted her opinion. I know one case where a woman got the solution that she didn't have the right to a family pension because her man died in the war. Only after 3.4 years has the constitutional court said that such a foolish solution has been abolished. Now, I'm not going in, but I mean this, I'm afraid that these decisions sometimes come out of thinking that needs to be addressed by this model of public information, and again, HRT has an outstanding role to play in that. I'll say two more things that can be in the taste zone if you want. Not long ago, a young girl in the role of a reporter with a microphone asking a man, is that you here yet? That's a little comical. You know. A little comical. I'm afraid she's afraid to say the voice E too lonely. Which is ridiculous. I think that girl deserves support, that she doesn't get into those circuits to free her from the fear of her and me and all of us, and she doesn't know who she's not, the fear of some psychological or human in the ultimate line. Well, that's certainly an individual case. I've found the indication that you should take care of it. And in the end, I'm going to say something that my colleague Antinov here mentioned this question of language. Language question. I will not, of course, share advice on language with HRTU. But I think it's an extraordinary shame why it seems to me even a rejected language that was so brilliantly promoted by Oliver Mlakar. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27333	Thank you very much. Club of Representatives HNS PGS esteemed representative Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27334	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. Today, a report by Croatia has been made in front of us by TV, which has established and repeated legal provisions that Croatian television is public television, that Croatian radio is a public radio, so public service to citizens of the Republic of Croatia. And on behalf of that public, the Parliament is both the founder and the controller and the one who receives the report on their work. We have before us the report and the opinions of the administration, the audit and the programming council. What is not in any of these documents is the report of the audience, therefore, to the public on whose behalf we are discussing these documents today. There are no reports of the ratings and listening to the programmes in which we are discussing today and very little has been said about the position of Croatia's radio television in particular television at the moment when it received extremely strong competition. In fact, Croatian worked under competition or with competition on its market for a long time and more powerful. As television itself began to gain that competition only recently. I think that in the future, it would be good if these annual reports came to us that at least the pathways of the ratings report on the monitoring of the programme and that we get the satisfaction of the programme directly from that public, and that can certainly be done in different ways of research, surveying and everything else. So we don't turn out to be discussing the names and the births that pay one TV subscription and watch other TV programs. And when we have to discuss Croatian television and discussions are tough, polemic, all kinds of positions. However, I did not testify back for ten years that such content of the debate would be in Croatian Radio. Namely, it's the part of the same house that also has an information program, which also has a political programme and fun and sports and it's not there or was not at least I haven't heard, any affairs or shouts or noises. Neither dissatisfaction nor us politicians in the Croatian Radio programme. Besides the national network, it also broadcasts on the Radio Sljemen, Radio Dubrovnik, Osijek, Pula, Rijeka, Split, Zadar and Knin. So with the national network of three programmes, there are still regional programmes. So I get the feeling that these responsible people who are also going through the appointments of the election of reporting through the leaders, something less in some quiet work and work. So that's why they weren't so much in the public interest so far when the polemics of pleasure, dissatisfaction. And that's why I don't want to talk about the program and the programming basics, and I don't want to discuss envy or dissatisfaction with the television program. Because somebody doesn't care if I'm happy with the program or not. Instead, he would refer to the report of 11 people chosen by the Croatian Parliament called them the Programme Council of Croatian Radio Television, which we received on the incomplete year of their term of office. And I'm saying that now, and I'm going to do it again in the end, in order to help them keep their annual report not as structured as it is. But the president's here, I hope he'll follow me, a few of me need suggestions. Already in the introduction, so this is the first one, says the Programme Council, representing and protecting the public's interests in the implementation of surveillance, promotion of radio and television programmes. So not what we think but what the public thinks. How does the Programme Council communicate with the public? Because it protects the interests of the public. how they have identified what is the public interest they should later protect. In front of someone or on behalf of someone, so that communication with the public in protecting the interest is extremely important to see if what the programming basis found to be later and implemented. DRugo, this report also mentions that, following certain problems, a significant job has been done, and this was the choice of the appointment of leading people, the bodies that were to be made, and mention certain pressures on certain members of the Council that were carried out during the appointment of these people. I would prefer never to have such findings in any report coming before the Parliament. Or to say who and who the pressure was on. This, some kind of pressure, from someone, to someone, can't be written in a document delivered to the state parliament, to the Parliament. Thirdly, it is concluded that meetings of the Croatian Council of Radio Television are public and that is good. But then we, too, in the Assembly and the responsible people in the Assembly, failed in terms of work, not just waiting for their report. In fact, three members of the Council, therefore, sent a letter to the same Council on May 5th of this year warning that on the eve of a public, 7th session of the Council held on 28th of April this year in Dzhman Street, some secret Council meeting was held which they consider illegal. And if the three members of the Council who have passed this House's verification were then responding to the Parliament, then we should have responded or forwarded it to the relevant institutions. I haven't seen or heard that, and I've also asked the members of the Information and Media Committee, and there wasn't any on the Committee. Fourth. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day The Council's law monitors the implementation of programme principles and, in the event of non-compliance, warns the principal, directors of organisational units in writing, and the directors of the programme whether and how many warnings have been written so far. That's actually the point. Is it, not just now in this report, but it's always important that we get that information? So how many times did the program council go in written warning as the strongest means the law gave to warn that something in the program or implementation of the program was not good. To weigh part of this report is based on the Council’s rdo and is smaller for objective reasons on the implementation of programme principles and obligations. It is my fifth request that in the annual report 99% of the report be the implementation of programming principles, and perhaps only 1% of the work of the Council itself. Furthermore, this report also mentions that the Council has put a great deal of effort into drawing up a new draft code of ethics of the Croatian Radio Television and the Council has paid particular attention to preventing the possibility of conflict of interest and this is very good and I believe that in the new report, the issue of the implementation of the ethical code and possible conflict of interest will also be an integral part of the report. However, this Council has already dealt with a conflict of interest within the Croatian Radio Television and in the ambiguity of interpreting Article 18(2) of the Law on Croatian Radio Television, they have requested the opinion of the Ministry of Culture as a parent ministry which has been a concrete example of which the opinion has been sought, in their opinion, that it was a conflict of interest. After obtaining that opinion from the Ministry of Economy, it is obvious that they are insecure in the accuracy of the interpretation of Article 18. Croatian Radio Television from the Parliament, asks the Committee on Law for authentic interpretation of the law, which was submitted on 6 July this year and until today, the Committee has not initiated a procedure to implement or respond to Croatian television on this request, to that effect. If there is therefore a need and Croatian Radio Television is seeking the help of the Parliament in interpreting the rules in order not to make any further mistakes in its work, then it is minimum we must do to answer them. Either by launching the procedure or by assessing that there is no need for the interpretation of the law, because the provision of the law is completely clear. But to silence that request, and next year possibly use it as a reason for some other moves, would not be correct from us or should we do so. The report also mentions one case, as it states here, when determining the duration of the term of office for certain members of the Programme Council, and this chapter ends in a sentence: the legality of the Council's work under Article 48(2) is supervised by the Croatian Parliament, so that the Croatian Parliament could therefore make an appropriate decision. And before that, it's said that the only thing they had in store was the words, said, either, or saw, I didn't see, and now we should make the right decision for me. I, on the basis of the words, have never said and I will not bring. That's it. And final. I repeat that I have made these remarks not in bad faith, not in the desire of calculation or reckoning, but now I have expressed my wishes for what kind of report I would like to receive next year for this year and I want to believe that I have helped both the president and the members of the Council. But today I'm here in the reports of the working bodies instead of definitions or formulations is accepted report heard, taken into account. I want to believe that my hunches are not justified and that I am wrong again, and even I can make a mistake, that these formulations, being taken into account, are not the premonition that the possible refusal of this, these two reports would only be the first step towards new staff shifts or cleanups, because in the Law on the Transfer of Government, Croatian Radio Television and Staff could not enter, so that we do not now serve these models. I repeat, I believe I'm wrong and it won't be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27335	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation. Dear Representative Željka Antunović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27336	I would like to correct the incorrect allegations of my colleague, Lesar, as chairman of the Information Committee, since he said he had asked the Committee members and that the Committee had not discussed a letter that I was now not wasting the time he needed to discuss. If my colleague Lesar had asked the members of the Committee, I suppose that he would have asked the Committee president, had received an appropriate, satisfactory answer, and today he would not have thought so in mind something that was clarified, which was discussed by the relevant authorities, and there was no need for either the Committee or the President of the Assembly or anyone else in the Assembly to conduct any particular debate on one letter containing certain indications, which were found not to be correct after the verification, and I think that the re-indentation of one such letter in this debate could not be used but to damage one objective consideration.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27337	Dear Representative Luka Roic, on behalf of the HSS Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27338	Thank you, Mr. President. Gentlemen from television, colleagues and fellow MPs. At the very beginning of the debate on this report, I will say that this is a report that came about after the application of the new Law on Croatian Radio Television, a law that was long prepared, challenged, but finally seems successfully passed. I will talk about Croatian radio television, reports that are aware before us that last year there was a new position and situation in the Croatian media space, that Croatia's radio television lost one program, that private TVs appeared in Croatia at a large door and that we now have a new position. So far or until then, until recently the monopoly position of Croatian television on the electronic media space of Croatia. So now we have a new position, a competitive position in which public television despite the many limitations of the legal must justify the role it is intended for, and it's not easy. But I can say, quite frankly, on behalf of the HSS, and praise the leadership of HRT that it has just successfully completed this newly created task and position, because you will agree if it is not too pretentious from this pay phone, to say that they still stand a long way in the first place when it comes to electronic media in the Croatian media space. I hope that this will be so in the future, not because these people are at the head of television right now, but because it is simply the obligation of Croatian public television to firmly take over the media space and to represent the public in the best possible way unburdened by any ownership and any other restrictions that often bring all media into major problems and actually cannot find a way out of these problems. I'm not going to talk here about things that aren't strictly related to the report, I'm going to try despite the HSS's position that this report is very correct, that we're going to support it, that we're going to vote for its acceptance. I will try, however, to speak critically with a few words about some of the parts of the report that are the subject of our consideration today. The report treated by the Council from 14 November to 30 June 2004, the 2003 Directorate's report on business, as well as the report of the... TV house on financial reports for 2003, may, in some ways, begin their assessment on behalf of the HSS. Report on the work of the HRT Council on the implementation of the programme principles and obligations established by the laws and programmes of the Croatian Television, Croatian Television, Croatian Radio and Croatian Television, and mainly on the work of the HRT Council, and less on the implementation of programme principles and obligations. If it is known that the Croatian Parliament was only last year on 17 November, it was appointed by the Council and that the constitutive session of the council was held on 14 November 2003, then it is quite clear why it is so. The state of temporaryity that lasted until then, which is not a good condition for any serious and long-term work, has been documented by the selection of the leaders of Croatian broadcasting, which has opened up a space for stronger restructuring and development. The report can conclude that business is stable and for four years it has been constantly rising in a row. This information for us who are somehow in the name of the owner in charge of monitoring the work of Croatian Radio Television, enough to give this report a positive assessment. Because if the business that was done by then and always almost regularly was in big problems, is stabilised, it is a sign that this house is managed properly. A strong investment cycle has been launched, and in 2003 it was a year of development and investment, and most of all we all know it, from the fee 55%, from marketing 35%, and it is also a constant growth. The report can read how 245 hours of radio and 57 hours of television can be broadcast daily, which puts Croatian TV alongside the radio-television of developed countries. However, the report does not show the percentage of the imported programme, the share of the domestic programme, as the provisions of the European Convention on Transboundary Television are respected and the opinion of the audience on the programmes offered. In this regard, it would be useful to establish a service for viewers to check the satisfaction of citizens of broadcast programmes. More pluralism is missing throughout the programme, not just in the information programme, because Croatian television as a public television must take care of the diversity of the programme which must satisfy the interests of different groups of national minorities, religious communities and those with special needs of disabled people and so on. Although technology has been significantly changed and digitisation has been brought to an end, there is a lack of a country-wide digitalisation strategy which significantly blocks the overall process. HTV, HR and music production relations are solidarity. Getting used to separate registers should go gradually, we all warned when passing laws. We know that we have divided into three segments Croatian Radio and it is very important that none of these segments be neglected, means that the separation must be subtle, gradual and very carefully how some programs especially radio programs, and especially some radio programs that are very important for national needs of Croatia to be very quality and well treated. As so far, the particular problem is that there are too many employees, which we have to say here, about whose organisational and personnel structure we know almost nothing about. In order to know whether the program is created by professionals and how many professional qualifications meet the needs of professions, jobs and times. The information that 430 new employees were employed in 2000 says that HRT was easily employed and is therefore one of the few working organisations where there is no savings on the number of employees. It would not be such a bad situation if it were not known that a significant number of employees are getting paid, and it is not working, which could lead to the conclusion that it is incompetent journalists or other employees who are not responding to the current Croatian radiotelevision policy, and which may cause some to doubt that it is remanding or eliminating political insatisfactors which would not be good at all. In order for democracy in Croatia to function in its fullness, freedom of expression needs to have the highest degree of constitutional, legislative and judicial protection. That's why it's a crucial part of the press. They're the voice of the public and they're responsible to her and they're taking her bills. They must be in latent conflict because of the nature of the business, in a latent big conflict with politicians, because their function in democracy is not only informative but I would say first of all control. Journalists as the voice of the public must be torn off by the hands of politicians, and politicians should take their paws off the media and thus stop returning media space to dark times. And that's why it's a good position when reports like this may slowly cause everyone's dissatisfaction, because it's a sign that television and media space are finally slowly free and independent. So don't be afraid if there's criticism, if you're criticised by everyone, it's a sign that you're doing well. Keep going that way, and I believe we have a chance to achieve the media freedoms that we all really want. And that's why I wrote this to this political media tape that's been going on lately at the Croatian Parliament, the leadership of the Croatian Parliament and Croatian Television, when it was the report, which was long ago in the 7th month, and in the 9th we discussed it intensively, I would say some journalists who allowed them to pull their sleeves and thus produce scandals in general always from the same persons. You know, at our place in Dalmatia, they say we should work on our own... to come into the focus of interest particularly media, and that is unacceptable. [[You don't understand.]] So I'm going to propose monitoring the programming council to avoid problems of this kind as much and as much representation in the media, so we'd all be happy and respect each other's rights, and at the same time we wouldn't harm the rights of others. The results of the audit, and something about it. In 2003, revenue and expenditure exceeded the planned size. It's usually the way it is in public enterprises, I keep saying it, in all public enterprises, and so on television. The increase in income also allows you to increase your expenditure infinitely, which is often without the right needs and this game never stops which is not good either. As the previous year's revision shows a continuation of some mistakes, these mistakes are not crucial, but I will still list them. Years earlier, and now in the supply of goods where often without public competition, a supplier is chosen. Prices of goods vary throughout the year, contracts with suppliers are concluded at the end of the year, even at 50% cheaper price than the supplier charged during the year. Public competition for clothing items worth 200 to 200 thousand kuna per year is not a collection of offers. The revenues were mainly followed by a draft plan from 2003, while other business revenues and other exceptional revenues, grants and subsidies revenue exceeded the draft plan by as much as 164.3%. The expenditure was in some items under the plan, but the other expenditure exceeds the plan by 275%. The surplus refers to books of $ 3.8 million in expenditures from last year and extraordinary expenditures of 2 and a half million. I would like to make one observation to the Croatian Television leadership, and it refers to sending my employees abroad to improve. Because it is not a rare case that after such training, mostly not cheap, trained personnel leave Croatia's television after returning from abroad and go to private television without paying compensation for the funds invested in training these staff. I believe that training scholarships and other types of investment in staff should be dealt with on a contractual basis where it would be specified exactly what would happen if such personnel left Croatian television after spending some time training abroad. I know how up-to-date lawyers are if they are late to pay their subscription, although it is the viewers who are good at funding television and can sometimes be justifiably late on payment, so I would ask that they, too, be up-to-date in the protection of subscribers when they are spent irresponsibly for any improvement and other exhibition of which, as I said, Croatian television has absolutely no use. And when we talk about perfecting personnel, more attention should be paid to better speech on Croatian television. There are too many localisms on public television, not those real localisms, but street talk, Zagreb tents, bad and wrong accent, and translations that I'm not even talking about. For example, what that means when we have, we all know the nice word "goodbye." And please pay attention to that. Do not send personnel outside, but send them to Professor Škaric, Silic, Dulcic and others from whom they can learn a lot. As far as financing Croatian broadcasting would be concerned, it would be better if more funds were made out of their own production because the economic independence of the media is a key condition for the freedom of the same media. However, most of Croatia's revenues are always being made through subscription in future and so far, which also allows for some independence from politics, but therefore accounts should be made public. And she needs to know what her money is spent on, because the subscription is a direct link between the media and the audience and it is always for such independence, and the condition is for such independence of Croatian broadcasting. From what we're told, there are certain problems that reflect our social and social situation. All that is on Croatian television exists in our society, but I, regardless of all the problems that exist, given the report and the indicators that are presented to these reports I am aware that this report is very quality, that it is promising, to guarantee the public television that role we expect of it. And that even in the future if this trend continues, and there is no reason to doubt it, Croatian broadcasting will remain and be an independent medium, the strongest in the electronic media. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27339	Thank you very much. The HSP Club is a respected representative of Slaven Letica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27340	Dear President Shakespeare, Croatian Radio Television Supremes. The HSP Club has added great importance to these reports, and we have done a number of consultations. I personally consulted with Mr. Anto Zuzul, who is here in one footnote mentioned as more or less some kind of fraud. If, for programming reasons, he stepped out of the Program Council. I will, on the basis of the Club's decision, try to access this report from one perspective that we agreed on, which is the perspective of Croatian working television subscribers. The Marxists had the right to have opium for the people, but they mistakenly believed he was in church and religion. In modern societies opium for the people is television, it is the main industry of consciousness, cultural customs, education, entertainment, success, failure and grief. The sending of Croatia and any other television that should be recognised in the Report of the Programme Council is to inform people, educate people, entertain people and ensure that Lino Cervar and Croatian handball players perform more often on Croatian television, to feel the winners. So if we're looking from that perspective, which is even television, television is the only authentic folk medium. In 1991, I went to give my first interview in dramatic time at the BBC, for the first time I gave an interview outside of Croatia in English and I was excited. This leader noticed what it was all about and he said, "Sir, you come from a totalitarian world where you are taught to be watched by millions, two million and ten million people right now, and you imagine yourself in a public stands before you one huge mass of people." Television is a media that currently sees a housewife who cooks and observes a fraction of what happens, an unemployed unhappy man who lost his job in a private company, could later be said in the process of tycunisation, and therefore what is lacking in our thinking about Croatian television is the perspective of subscribers. It would be very good if the innovations of the Law on Croatian Radio Television with the Programme Council were provided for and the Board of Subscribers. Modern technologies allow such information bases to be chosen by random or random choice by 15, 20 viewers who are the basis for receiving Croatian broadcasting and that they give their voice. Like the old County Council in this high house. That it may not be a decisive voice, but that man says, "I am interested in hearing something that Croatia will really privatise Croatian highways, whether vignettes can be introduced in Croatia at an annual level of 300 or 400 kuna, whether pensions can be increased, whether my child can go free to this school and that school, what about corruption in the State Administration, health care, etc.". The second issue to be discussed is the public's issue. I see basic problems on television with us in the problem of uneducated often editors and journalists. The latest tragic case is the case of Aleksandar Tijanic. Aleksandar Tijanic appeared on Croatian television as some kind of natural disaster. Nowhere in the world, nowhere, in France, or in the Netherlands, or in Hungary, or in the Czech Republic, or in the former Yugoslavia, there was no theoretical possibility that Aleksandar Tianic, or Goeblles, was a minister in the war crimes chamber who was likely to receive a life sentence in The Hague, a warlock and a paradigm of a whole wave of similar people who would arrive at the wave of revisionism in Croatia. I knew them personally before 90 and after 90, and all people know that something like that can't happen in a civilized country. It has already appeared in the Croatian media Mikulić, will appear, Mikelic, will appear tomorrow, why not Seselj on a direct link from The Hague and then we will ask ourselves what is happening to us. The second is the question discussed by this second report, television as an entrepreneur. This is a question that Luke also had a little talk about with a lot of enthusiasm and from the perspective of a benevolent island viewer who sees everything well on television, and I am very happy about it. He mentioned that there are extra workers, that the bad organisation, the issue of leadership and management, fees and non-honoraries, the surplus shortfall, what we at the HSP Club and I are concerned about is the precedent for selling the 3rd programme, which is not responsible for Croatian television to RTL which has turned into what is worst possible. The development of RTL's programme in some way gave a compliment to the 1st and 2nd programme because now the best critics must conclude that there is something worse than Croatian TV and that is RTL's television. The third problem to talk about is television as a cultural and civilization entrepreneur. The loss of one programme, the rounding of cultural content, the educational content of the entire Croatian cultural production corpus, which was related to Croatian television and related to traditional, educational, cultural, documentary shows, remained, of course, in the area of elite culture until further time, there are great assembles, orchestras, there is a great production, however, if it is going through this general trend, and I would call this general trend a single buster between public and commercial television where Croatian television is trying to compete with commercial televisions in sharing a commercial promotional cookie with one strange subtlety, there would otherwise be a friend or acquaintance Mirko Galić visited that on the ethic code of conduct of editors, journalists, and leadership of modern TV in the election seasons. He disobeyed the proposal, he was at my home on the computer, he was made according to the best experiences of the New York Times and French television houses that not only allows television and other journalists to be speakers of presidential candidates, political parties, to carry on their own cars, houses or even family members any insignium, badges, a sign of any political parties and candidates. Unfortunately, during this sad presidential period, Croatian television has acted as a propaganda machine for other candidates, not an independent HSP candidate. If you are watching the sad event yesterday, two rituals are presented, the ceremony of the laying of the president of the Republic and the representative of the executive government, the ceremony of the laying on behalf of this House where a presidential candidate participated is not shown on Croatian television. Television as a political consciousness industry. I said, say, Dennis Latin has a propaganda machine for a presidential candidate, and Stipe Mesic doesn't notice. When it comes to media manipulation systems in post-totalitarian order, there are two systems of manipulation. One of us is out of the anger he decided, for example, with the full rights of Vladimir Seks, and the others are much more subtle, when you come to a hotel in the morning, then you find the leadership of Croatian television with some secret adviser at a time when the singers are only cowardly to discuss how much, how and what Croatian television should be done during the pre-election period. There is this one system of invisible manipulation to the media and one system visible. Finally HTV and Parliament, Damir Cain believes that there should be more Parliaments on Croatian TV, I would be happy to have it less or to be completely abolished, we are some kind of political reality show or "Big Brothers" political. Imagine the situation being passed on by other authorities, that the meetings of the Government, the Constitutional Court, the Supreme Court, the Office of the President of the Republic are directly transferred on television. The demystification of these institutions and the anger of these TV viewers who want to watch these sports programs, films, documentary series would be directed to other channels and not only would it be directed at us, and therefore, in the distribution of this negative image, it should be done much to make the Croatian Parliament as little as possible and finally, something about the old dream of Antun Vrdoljak that Croatian television becomes the cathedral of Croatian spirit. As he thought at the time it should be some idea of every leadership of Croatian television. TO stop one wild commercialisation, to make Croatian television a rational, well-leaded, productive and productive and administrative and management and managerial drive, and to make this ideal of turning Croatian television into one of the last fortresses in which Croatian spirit, Croatian language, theatre, Croatian film and documentation and other all the abilities and finally Lino Cervar will be cultured, that is the ideal for which to fight. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27341	Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect allegations by the respected representative Zeljka Antunovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27342	Mr. President, although I suppose the incorrect allegations in relation to the mentioned Mr. Anto Zuzul will correct the member of the HRT Council and the President of the Council will still be a representative but also as chairman of the Media Committee cannot correct two incorrect allegations. Namely, Mr Ante Zuzul, the distinguished member of the HRT Council elected in this House, has not been mentioned today or ever before in relation to his involvement in the Council as a criminal, as has been said here. And another incorrect fact is that Mr. Ante Zuzul has not stepped down from the HRT Council.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27343	Thank you. And correction by the esteemed representative Ivo Lonchar.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27344	Mr. President, my colleague Letica said that with the current Programme Council, the citizens' council is being established, a quote has been completed. I wouldn't have anything against this, and that's why I'm going to challenge the professor's claim. Dear Professor, the source of all the evils on Croatian television is the current HRT Act. In the current HRT programme council, two-thirds of the members are in conflict of interest, one are publishers, the other are actors whose films are spinning there, the third are theatre workers, etc. Be careful, the former Prime Minister, like all members of the government, always said that they were democratic government and that they came in a dmeocratic way and in a year they changed the Law on HRT twice, and they don't know which one is more radical, so the HRT Act should be changed so that there are no more of these things that you've been talking about. And one more thing, when it comes to Croatian broadcasting which is now there, it is exclusively a commercial programme and the strongest commercial television in Croatia, Croatian TV, which is unacceptable for public television, which should be the public service of all its citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27345	Thank you very much. In accordance with Article 207 at 13 hours and 17 minutes, the time for the 10-minute hearing has expired. Three other clubs and 31 MPs have been reported on this subject. I will now interrupt the session, continue, pause, continue at 3:00 where we will vote on the debated agenda points and we will continue to discuss this topic next week. Resume session at 3:00 and please key.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27346	Ladies and gentlemen, we will proceed with the session. Dear Representative Frano Piploic on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the DC HSLS. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27347	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Galic, sir... respect. Instead of an argumentative and qualified one approach in the current course of the debate, it seems to me that in this report of Croatian Radio Television for the period of November of the past year and June of this year it seems to me that we did have some of the accentes that smell of the courtship of Croatian television and of a kind of... petty politicization of Croatian television. About the last time, it was said that there were indications that non-acceptance of this report could occur and that the responsibility, i.e. the replacement, could be automatically triggered by the deviation of current TV management. I think it's too soon that there's no evidence, at least if this report is carefully read for such a conclusion. And I would say that it was, after all, a way out of the framework and rights and responsibilities that we as parliamentary representatives, or Parliament as founder of Croatian television, have. Croatian television, i.e. Croatian Radio, have their own directors, have their editors, have their own program, have a program board that cares, assesses and assesses whether the production of television and radio programmes was in line with the principles and regulations governing this activity. I'm telling you, here are a few reports for this past period. The Council is as competent to consider this,... And that is what he said. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here we are as Parliamentarians the last in this chain to consider this report. What we should be interested in and what we should put all the expensive emphasis on, which is our obligation, to discuss, or assess whether the Croatian Radio-Television programme in this past period has been in line with both the basic and programming principles and the obligations laid down by the legal rules. Everything else would be to assume the ingenuity of others, i.e., interference with a program that we have no right to. The fundamental question is whether Croatia is a radio-television in addition to whether it has respected the programming principles is a fundamental question whether and how much it has become in this period of public television and where we as parliamentary representatives, such as those dealing with politics, whether or not we can help it to become a better public television. The programme is produced by journalists according to professional and professional standards and ethical principles, and these are also the gauges in which the production of Croatian Radio-Television Programmes should be started. We entered a period during which Croatian worked, Croatian television in which they lost the monopoly in the field of electronic media. We have at national level two new concessions, or two new television media, we have a dozen local television media, local and regional. We also have a lot of signals from the area of the countries that occurred after the collapse of the former Yugoslavia that also cover the territory of the Croatian state, so that our viewers can also watch these programmes so that these programmes are in some way a kind of competition for Croatian radio-television in the creation of the programme, i.e. in achieving the public interest that we have as a society via Croatian Radio-Television. So the arrival of this competition in front of the Croatian Radio Television set out very complex requirements and very complex tasks with a basic goal of becoming a very high quality public service in all of this, meaning service for all citizens, all of what is in the interest of stabilising the political and every other Croatian state and Croatian society. So, I listed all of this because of what it would seem to me, when we consider such reports should Croatian radio television, it means watching TV and radio programs in light of these roles and these circumstances that they are. The DC and HSLS Club maintains that during the period considered Croatian radio television adhered to the programming principles and obligations established by law and programme and that there were no programme deviations and violations of software content. In public in early September of this year, one remark from the President of the Croatian Parliament that there was sensationalism and neglect of events brought to an exes, was called pressure and interference in the programme. But fortunately that tension, that exes went down, and it seems to me that he was being targeted overheated, so the passions calmed down. However, there remains something hanging in the air, whether it was all right, or if there was a problem. I think there's a problem. The fundamental question is whether, whether Croatian television can monitor the work of the Croatian Parliament the way we do as parliamentary representatives and how we want it, or whether journalists can follow the Parliament the way they want it, that is, how the information market asks for it, that is, I don't think it can be followed in these circumstances either, journalists can follow the way they want the work of the Croatian Parliament, because we still don't have the conditions, and we can't ask the television to follow the way we want it and we want the work of the Croatian Parliament. Are there enough Parliaments on Croatian TV, or on central information shows? Because I come from the media, that I have eaten this bread for a long time, it seems professionally to me that there are not enough Parliaments, but there are enough perhaps even too many politicians from the Parliament who talk about things and topics that have not been said on the Parliament's agenda. Why along with this place, along with this Councilroom there is another market of information that works very effectively here in the Parliament. It is the towers, it is the aula of the Parliament and always drags the journalist by the sleeve and that the information that probably when you evaluate it from the point of view of journalists and market placement and information may be much more interesting and interesting than one persistent work, thorough work, patient work, all day work here in the Assembly. And let's say when it comes to, when it comes to exes, execs, we had the opportunity to see them here, challenge them one or the other or third party, it doesn't matter now, the journalist, cameraman, editor clearly reacts as a professional, gives priority to such an act, the act is ignored by the persistent and patient work of those parliamentary representatives who don't know how to work, work through exes, and then I agree with what the President of the Parliament said when he made that remark. We know that many political parties, in the absence of funds, want to show themselves to their potential voters. To get one free commercial in this way, clearly that advertising is paid by all taxpayers, or those who pay a television subscription. But then it would still be more correct if we wanted that kind of advertising and came transparently to our political equalists and potential voters to single out our funds, to go to Croatian Radio and Television, I think it would be good for Mr Galic and all the employees, it is a new kuna in the Croatian Radio Television budget. Everyone is aware that television is one powerful tool, that it's one magic mirror that makes a picture exactly the way we want it and how we want it to be, but someone else can make our picture the way we don't want it to be. The fundamental question also was there pressure on Croatian radio TV during this period? I didn't see them. However, there are these objective pressures that come from this very passionate desire to find ourselves in the Croatian Radio-Television programme to push our message into the program and especially that part of the programme that most viewers have. So that's where I didn't see that there were restrictions on media and professional freedoms. And there's another type of pressure, that's that pressure coming from the market. You, if you have today when you lost the monopoly, have a new electronic media. Of course you have to make a program in a way that is also market-consuming. What we could ultimately send as some petty objections to Croatian radio television in the desire to have more and more public television. It means that the programme avoids broadcasting those content that offends, there are such content that is borderline to insulting public morality, to insult some other groups of citizens, etc. Furthermore, it would be advised to take into account the ratio of domestic and foreign programmes on these content. I know it's expensive to produce programs, it's the hardest part in the work of television, if there's money easier to buy programs. However, it seems to me that we have a vision of foreign content, which is precisely the kind of content that often does not deserve to be found in the Croatian Radio-Television programme as public television. And under the company of openness, I think it would be convenient not to broadcast the chewed-out content that comes to us often from various agencies that offer these contents, whether it's domestic, whether it's foreign production. And further, perhaps one remark, yes, but then it's a matter of more journalists, editors, not to run away from the easiest form of television content with an account that as much water as possible, more customers. I think there is also one problem that can affect television ratings, i.e. the consumption of content that it places through its program. Furthermore, it would be good to have a little more content, I have seen that these are remarks and individual committees that promote our cultural, social, historical content, especially in the context of an educational programme that is quite stagnating for me and for us. There's one program, I mean when I talk about TV HRT, so there's two programs. We usually think about television and there is the most emphasis on television, however, there is a Croatian radio with its programs. For example, I would like to commend a particular part of the programme, which is the Voice of Croatia, which means one special part of the Croatian Radio programme intended for evicted Croatia, the international public and minorities in Croatia, that part of the programme is also broadcast in English. It would be nice to have a Croatian radio-television at least daily show in English, it means information show, because it is one way of preparing Croatian radio-television for the entry into the European Union. These are things that would be nice to see, and not just to have in English news shows when it's time for the tourist season. And to the very end, here, if I can praise myself in some way, I believe that if the Croatian Radio-Television will be technical support for us, and the Croatian Parliament accepts the initiative of the Democratic Centre, it consists of heading into the procedure of the draft Law on Parliamentary Television, so that perhaps many things, many of whom as politicians here we meet will be resolved easier, and will be Croatian Radio-Television will have a cheaper programme, will probably have far more content to offer to the Croatian public. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27348	Thank you. Croatian Democratic Community Representatives' Club, Honored Representative Petar Selem, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27349	Mr. President, distinguished guests, colleagues and colleagues. Before considering the report on the work of the Croatian Radio-Television Programme Council on this, I would like only to do a little crackdown on some of the things that have been said already here in the previous discussion. At one point, a great fear was expressed here to question the status of leading people on Croatian radio television. It's even, we heard an appeal, don't touch them. I would like to say that for the Croatian Democratic Community Club, this is not a discussion of any personal matter at all, we do not discuss these matters at all. We talk exclusively about the Report of the Programme Council of the Croatian Radio and Television, about the work of Croatian Radio and Television. As for the Report of the Programme Council, I see in that report three levels, three layers. The first would be a pleasure to the Council itself, i.e. The Council shows great satisfaction with its work, the number of its sessions, the work that has been done, which is worth every praise, and everyone has the right to be content with himself. The other thing, which I think may be more interesting, is that the Council is showing constant discomfort with its position and function, i.e. that the Council notes that the legal provisions are fluid, unarranged, unclear, so that if I have understood the report correctly correctly, they are reduced to the fact that the Council advises that it can give suggestions that it can suggest. However, clearly, it makes sense that the Council, with such vague competences, cannot feel well. And finally the third thing, which seems absolutely important to me, is the part where the Council focuses on the Croatian Radio and Croatian Television programme. I think that the Council rightly acknowledges that this part of the report is quite shrewd, quite abstention, and that justifies the reason I mentioned earlier. I can say that they would agree globally with the basic conclusions of the Council as regards the Croatian Radio-Television Programme, i.e. evaluations of the work of Croatian Radio and Croatian Television. But what I'm missing from that report, before I move on to these two special items if you want, is the fact that there's actually no talking about any of the most important things in that report. It's a matter of national level of information for me. Does the information provided by Croatian Radio Television correspond to one national level? First question. There is no positive or negative response to the news. The second question, I do not see any attitude towards the moral and ethical criteria of the formation of public messages that have a crucial impact on the formation of social consciousness. I'm not talking about villains right now, okay? Anyway, I don't see too much of a word in there about commercialising spiritual values and insulting some serious content. These are the things that are absolutely missing in that report. But let's move on to these little more concrete things. The Council welcomes the work of the Croatian Radio. I would agree with that. Croatian Radio with some technical weaknesses: too often repeating the same form literally, the same news on shows in 3, 5, 7, 10 etc. I think that Croatian Radio, especially thanks to its third programme, which is excellent, I think it truly fulfills one mission it must have. And you're by the way I'd commend that part of the report, I'm with him, I'm totally in agreement with him. That may be understandable because he worked, not so exposed to attacking commercialization as exposed to television. So he worked here, say, in a quieter, better situation. As far as television is concerned, these things are kind of different. And in the Council report itself, we feel this constant note of dissatisfaction, with the Croatian Radio Television programme especially in relation to those cultural, educational and all other contents that are important for one national television, i.e. public and national television. Please “national” understand in the right sense of the word. There, I say, things aren't going very well. The fact is that Croatian radio television still contributes to Croatian culture, e.g. The participation of the film. Without the participation of Croatian Radio Television, Croatian cinema would be unquestionably in a much more difficult situation. But what absolutely, I don't think is good, it's a fact inexplicable and the Council has mentioned, I want to make it a little clearer. And that's that culture on Croatian television goes downhill, that's a fact. I'll give you just a few questions. It's a question of the serious music program. In 2000, the number of serious music shows on Croatian television was 163. Total minute 11000 105. Today, serious music on Croatian television, on television, excuse me, television is reduced to two times a month, two shows broadcast at 23.40, means "alla," whether, 23.40 and mostly only related to concert footage. It was just the music production of Croatian Radio Television, Croatian Television, that was even our legitimateization in front of the world. The shows that were recorded were sold outside, received awards at international festivals. I'll mention all those missions that are practically gone. For example. portraits, ballets in their own production, documentary music reports, festival transmissions, synphonic concerts, well there it is, concerts by Croatian foreign soloists and ansabl, foreign program, opera box and various convenient shows. We are now in a situation to buy from outside even shows about some of our top artists who have worked both in the country and abroad, for example. Sena Jurinac, Monika Lescovar, etc. Unfortunately, it has completely cut down the recording of drama shows, there is a drama programme but it has completely cut down the recording of drama plays that were culturally important because it created a foundation of the history of the Croatian theatre. Recording the best drama performances was the foundation of the Croatian theatre's history. That's completely out of line! I would especially mention one thing that seems very, very sad, which is the degradation of the educational program. That educational program was excellent gentlemen and ladies, it was excellent! We're practically doing this program today that used to have three hours a day, so two hours a day, now there's, they tell me, 15 minutes. The fall of this programme is something very, very bad by culture and by level, the cultural level of the people of this country. Let's read in Vjesnik a statement from the director of the program that there is actually an educational program but people don't see it. He says he exists and people don't see. Because, he says, he's hiding in some kind of cartoon, in some other forms and shapes. You know, it's like they're telling me, I'm not going to study anymore... Caesar, rather than all of us after Asterix and Obelix advice instead. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'm saying, that's enough, that's a very negative thing and there's another story that, I mean, doesn't hold water, and that's, it's said, you can't broadcast an educational program because the Parliament's transmissions, so cut Parliament transfers, so there's going to be more education programs. I have my own private opinion on the transfer of Parliament, and I'm not going to talk about it right now. I have a very precise private opinion, but I'm saying, that's not the point. However, the fact is, the transmissions that the educational programme has always been broadcast on the first programme and now the soap opera Lugarnica, Oprah show and things like that are being broadcast in these terms. The Parliament knows her where! So, it's not those two things in the coalition and it's not supposed to be looking for that... In particular, I think it's negative that these, with this orientation, have stopped the documentary programs, the educational content, which were very high-quality, very, very high-quality. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, it seems to me that there really is a constant skating towards commerciality in a programme of Croatian television that is not allowed. Because Croatian television cannot compete with RTL and other commercial televisions, its task is special and specific and it is therefore receiving a subscription. So, if I'm talking about a subscription, rather than talking about whether a politician has one minute or two rather than whether television is performing its basic, cultural function that is set. And if she's not doing it, then there's really a question of whether she's public, whether she's national. These were so some remarks that I think they can be useful to the Programme Council and Croatian Radio Television. Therefore, with all this in mind, the Croatian Democratic Community Representatives' Club will propose that this report be taken into account. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27350	Thank you very much. SDP representative club, respected representative Antun Vujic. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27351	Mr. President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, here I am pleased that for the first time we are able to discuss as a Parliament the same as the media activity in the context of Croatia's radio television and after numerous changes, as well as the dramatic changes that have taken place in recent years regarding its structure, the laws, the provision of its public position in a way that is very, very special and that is, I will also explain, that this is actually the only medium in Croatia that has a public media function and where all our legislation and all our efforts must continue to improve and ensure that function. In this context, a few words should be made about the situation of HRT in the context of total media legislation. We need to be aware when we talk about HRT, that we are not only talking about HRT but exactly in relations between HRT and everything else we have in the media. Our media movements are both positive and negative. No one has ever disputed the full freedom of the media if it comes to press media but we have discovered in media legislation and we have tried to resolve it and we hope that we have resolved that there is not just one kind of addiction of the kind of addiction resulting from political pressure. There are also internal types of addictions There are also internal types of media addictions. Those addictions stemming from their position on the market, groups that also exert very strong political influences in a less transparent way. In this context, what is a complete media legislation, and then it is an integral part and the law on HRT, and then and now this implementation, it was necessary to affirm the kind of autonomy that actually ensures what it is, which is most important to us, and that is the public's functioning on the basis of true data, un forgeried data, based on facts that can be compared to each other and then derived from that... those courts and those conclusions which then form a democratic society and competition in that democratic society on behalf of different parties. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is very important that this law which we are currently discussing as well as the other laws that we have passed during that period have the full support of exactly the same organisations that were previously very critical of them, which means civil society organisation from the Croatian Journalists' Society to the special ones, to the specific ones, to say so by association that is more intensive and also more professionally dealing with media that I would not like to quote now. In this sense, the key debate that has been held, and which today represents content, is just the heart to say the struggle for media independence, television is the position of a regulatory body that will not on behalf of this or that, this or that political structure, and even on behalf of the Parliament, provide the kind of independence that will affirm itself, in television alone, professional autonomy, high information level and movement in favour of so-called democratic building of society. And in that particular case, we had two phases. The first phase that took place in such a way that the body was formed so as to say to one civil society autogenesis without the Parliament and with the total exclusion of the Parliament, which allowed the representatives then appointed to be free of politics in this alone Council to start or at least some of them with behaviour that even went so far, you remember these discussions, which should set up and launch even a new party that even called the Third Croatia Alliance. In this context, we considered something that I think may be a common object and content of the common interest of any party in this Parliament. That the relationship between citizens who pay the subscription, between Croatia's interests as a state, should be expressed according to HRT in a way that simultaneously ensures the functions of autonomy on television but also allows in a way very clearly to put in place a safeguard mechanism that must correspond to this Assembly and this is the moment that now happens that this Assembly has the opportunity to discuss reports, not only on the reports of the directorship but also on the reports of the HRT Programme Council as a regulatory body which it has established in a way that has been, in a technological sense, the most advanced possible way in relation to the different alternatives we have had. Therefore, this is a simultaneous response to those who may suspect or perhaps in some way do not understand until the end of the situation relating to the position of the HRT Council. It does not have the same mandate as the Parliament, it is also drawn up in a way that expresses the very uniform structures of different political promoters, but since it has no contact with its concrete political and party promoters it has actually started to show that dynamic that I expected in my time, and I am glad that I had the right, although there was much doubt about it, it became its own council. It is by being appointed as an opposition, by giving each other authority, by trying to find those who will be their joint representatives, and by some means there is no majorisation. Indeed, in this context, I can primarily assess on behalf of the SDP Club, of course, these reports as well as the programme council's report. It is understandable to me that they are satisfied with themselves because, despite certain pressures that have been made, they have still preserved their own internal stability, they have nevertheless brought several very, very important things. So it was passed that the statutes which had elaborated what the law had not fully elaborated and I don't think the law should always be worked out until the end and the crisis which was very difficult was overcome, and that is to say, the crisis of television itself. You remember until recently that the third programme, if I can call it that, now that the third programme of television has been shut down, was not on television itself but on media that spoke about television. The conflicts, the discrepancy between the governance structure, the journalistic structure. Those who bear responsibility and those who in some way can expose... And so on and so forth. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I must give recognition to the Council in this particular context that it has managed to overcome such a dramatic state and state which has therefore been publicly underlined as dramatic and has managed to establish such a line of responsibility internally prescribed by the law in which the main topics have been resolved and, at the very least, what we can say is that we do not have an affair on television as we had before the law was passed. I think it's a very important component. From that component, it is possible to cross after, as I hope, we accept these reports at that second stage where I would critically join as many of us individuals is this kind of program or what? Is there better to be more of this or that? And in some ways after ensuring stability in the management of the house and in the realization of the independence of the house, and also in the realization of the media informative character of the house, we can therefore talk about a new perspective. It is very important that this stability continues. It is very important to ensure that the pressures that can be expressed in the way that I may be able to say now that I am not satisfied with certain parts of the programme or each of us or Parliament as a whole do not have that kind of influence that they are in some way directly implemented in editorial policy or in concrete, so to speak, informative or other shows. It is crucial to understand that the Council does not need any additional legal regulations to achieve its autonomy. It has just been streamed into those elements in which the previous Council has exceeded its competences. It can't even edit individual shows. So I was surprised that one of the clubs mentioned that some show she recorded wasn't on, released and they were expecting it to be. Well, of course she wasn't released, and she shouldn't be released. Neither this association nor that association because the journalistic structure and, and professional laws determine what will be and in what way they will be released, and not that we expect public television to be our mailbox for the different contributions they will edit, from which they will be edited outside, I think, the houses themselves, outside the house and beyond to say so of the journalistic structures. I also think that in addition to this and the key success of the Council, it can also be talked about the success of the directorship. So there's been a stabilization. It is consciously moving into the appropriate investment programmes and what is most important and where it should also be quite careful and weigh the weight of criticism that we will give, which is the circumstance that television is found for the first time in public space in the way of fighting for that space in competition and that competition should come out as one happy thing, but of course it, its first character is actually then and what it could agree with almost all of our early predecessors, and this is a discount in some aspects which do not have the character of the kind of public television that we would like to have but we must be that this television with all that it has and the subscription must function as competitive television in that public space. I am very glad that what may be the structure of all of us who are in charge not as individuals to see or not see ourselves in the diary but as responsible politicians to find themselves so to say, our attitudes are in the right way in the most visible show that it is the very most visible show, and that it is, to a large extent, with all our say possible individual dissatisfactions, performing its functions. The HRTU Act these reports are actually only one part of the entire media legislation. I must warn here that among other things HRTE has been deserved for many years and of course what has been mentioned for the film and for a whole series of other elements of Croatian culture and of course we can criticise and what may be no more. But he's responsible for one more thing, which from the pre-paltte ensures the pluralism of those media that can't be commercial and primarily with the local media, whether they're private or some other, and that they're in that sense providing funds. I have to say that for what some think is missing and that's an analysis of the metrics of certain content emissions one way or another doesn't allow us to train one body that we have under the law. But it hasn't worked enough yet, it's the Council for Electronic Media, which is therefore based on the law on electronic media. Which already has the means but there is no possibility of monitoring still not being supported by the government to somehow feel its role both in valorisation and in evaluation and those programmes which are not just programmes of other media houses and programmes of HRTA. In the context of the acceptance of this law and of these reports, there are also various assessments of whether or not the possibility of adopting new laws should be improved. When the debate was launched recently, however, it was said that first all the bills will be brought to the attention of the law. If we have such a trend that it leads to positive results and leads to these reports, then, of course, it should be corrected when it comes to that time, when the ace determines exactly which elements could be better, but it cannot be changed by any means by any means, and we should not compromise the content that has been achieved and that is the contact of this Parliament and this state with public television through the regulatory body, whose position is very clearly legally defined and which has begun to emanate so as to express my positive influences. I am also particularly pleased that, regardless of the different approaches, various clubs in this way or in that way expressed their support for these reports at this stage, and I also think that respected colleagues and Mr Galic and Mr Ljevak as President of the Council will also take into account the criticisms heard here which may be stronger in the second stage when the council and may be more able to pay more attention to what it is for not only to establish and stabilise the entire media area, but also to the content of the shows and then to the contents in terms of various programmes which may not be happily evaluated. Unfortunately, the time is limited, this is what the leg can talk about with those criticisms that have been systematically expressed in the parent committee media, the Media and Information Committee. The SDP club will support these three reports. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27352	Thank you very much. Honorable representative Zdenka Chuhnil on behalf of the National Minority Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27353	Dear Mr. President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. The Club of National Minorities discussed the report on the work of the HRT Council and the implementation of the programming principles and obligations set out in the law in the programmes of both Croatian television and Croatian television for the submission period. And we want to draw attention to a few facts. The report covers the work of the Croatian Radio Television Council itself, less implementation of programming principles and obligations. The diversity of programmes and meeting the needs of different stakeholders such as invalid, religious communities, and especially national minorities, are insufficiently taken into account. Croatian television has been broadcast since 92, respectively, by the week of the one-hour multinational magazine Recognition. It is a TV show dealing systematically with national minorities in the Republic of Croatia. When it was launched on Prizma, it was considered a transitional solution to specialized minority emissions. Unfortunately, this temporary period lasts for 12 years. Tv Zagreb until the 1990s, broadcast minority programmes for Italians, Hungarians, Czechs, Slovakia, Russia, and Ukraine. NO with the beginning of the war, the shows were shut down. Since then, applications have constantly come from national minorities' associations for the relaunch of specialized emissions. Meanwhile, in September 97, the Croatian Parliament confirmed the Framework Convention on the Protection of National Minorities, under which Croatia undertakes to recognise the right to freedom of expression of every member of the national minority, to receive and disseminate information and ideas in minority language, without interference of public authorities, regardless of borders. And that members of national minorities are not discriminated against about media access. The same year, the European Charter on Regional and Minority Languages was ratified, according to which Croatia has committed itself as part of its competence with respect to the principle of independence of media autonomy in the measure in which radio and television have the character of public service, to create adequate programmes in regional and minority languages. 1995. Croatia signed an agreement on the protection of the Hungarian minority in Croatia, and the Croatian minority in Hungary according to which both sides recognise the right of the two minorities to information through the press, radio and television in the mother tongue. The same year was done by the Italian minority. According to the 2003 HRTU Act, Croatian television is obliged, among other things, to produce and broadcast emissions intended to inform members of national minorities. The Government of the Republic of Croatia and Croatian Radio Television will deal with mutual rights and obligations as regards emissions intended to inform members of national minorities. Finally, according to the 2002 Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities, Article 18 defines. Radio stations, televisions at national, regional and local level are tasked with producing and broadcasting emissions aimed at informing minority members in minority languages. AND enable associations and institutions of national minorities to participate in the creation of a programme intended for national minorities. The State budget shall provide funding for the co-financing of the TV programme. the station and this according to the government's criteria on a proposal for a national minority council. Similarly, the Law on Electoral Media should have long been set up to promote pluralism, and the diversity of elekronic media, the funds of the Fund, to encourage the production and publication of software content at local regional level, which is of public interest. And it is particularly important for citizens to exercise their right to public information. Then for national minorities and so on. I've listed this by pointing to the highly standardised rights of national minorities regarding information and access to electronic media. And we are in implementation, unfortunately, on a temporary and passing solution, to the weekly one-hour issue of the 92-year Prism which certainly makes a significant contribution to the preservation of the identity of minorities, but does not satisfy the needs of minorities or standards established by law. Given that the pluralist society of real democracy should not only respect the ethnic, cultural language identity of every member of the national minority, but also create appropriate conditions to enable it to express, preserve and develop that identity. This certainly makes minority-language emissions into a public television programme a commitment. The HRT Programme Council should finally take account of this. During the reporting period, the Statute of the Croatian Radio Television was brought in, and leaders were elected, and conditions for regular business, restructuring and development were created. The business is listed in the report as positive and stable, along with certain investment activities. There is very little talk of rationalisation within the house, given the number of employees, the number of external associates, and even less staff structure, and this should be particularly important in this current 2004 year, as one state-level television network has been cut. Finally, the National Minority Club will support all three reports by stressing once again the obvious non-application of the laws of established national minorities to specialized emissions, in minority languages on Croatian television, thereby giving another loan to the Programme Council to solve the same. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27354	Thank you very much. We're going to an individual debate. Honored representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27355	Thank you, Mr. President, the esteemed editor-in-chief with associates, colleagues and colleagues. This opportunity that we have once a year to discuss these reports is also an opportunity and an opportunity for everyone here in the Parliament to have opposition, and in particular to examine and review our own responsibility, and I think that there is the greatest responsibility of the ruling, how to turn it from the complete media, and especially from Croatian radio television as from our public media, and to allow Croatia's radio television to become as free as possible, to become a means that will truly serve the common good, i.e. to make it possible. the social order that would be laid down in the truth, which would be created at the demands of justice, finally achieved in the sign of freedom. Public television, we will all agree, and so will ours, apart from entertainment, apart from education, we especially support such programs, performs to some extent and a polylytic function, in a way that conveys news, interprets them, that this is why it affects citizens' opinion. In one hand, it's politically socializing the citizens. It's a very important mission, because public television in this sense, we all want it together, I think that there are huge shifts, that it's just about to be an expression to the public because without the public there's no life of democracy, as someone once said, the public is exactly oxygen democracy. And in this sense, the public can become an important factor in policy and policy correction. After all, she serves to this end to a good extent. Every state government must be continuously and relegated, constantly controlled and held accountable in this sense, even in this sense, against the media, versus public television. There's been a lot of words here if anyone likes the program, whether we're critical, what needs to be changed, what needs to be complemented, what needs to be kept quiet, there's also been talk about it. However, we do not need this programme, especially here in the Croatian Parliament, politicians, to like it at all. And we don't like it, and we don't like it, and we don't need to like it. What kind of television would that be and where would politicians look at their pretty picture? That kind of TV wouldn't like the public. You wouldn't like the citizens. What has been happening in recent months, especially at the beginning of the year, is not something that encouraged and something that must cause serious concern among all of us. Media critics for certain gaps look forward to an opportunity, taking advantage of the opportunity to restrain journalists and discipline the media, as well as Croatian Radio Television. I would perhaps just quote a press report, the Council for Media of the Croatian Helsinki Committee, which issued a press release on 31 May 2004 which warned: I quote "A worrying accumulation of pressure on journalism in the period from interventions and the very top to the frequent beating of certain journalists. Concerned by a series of incidents that began with the December incursion of the then-declarator of HDZ, and continued with the intervention of one minister, the swift initiative to change the Law on HRT and the phantom list of bribed journalists who write about health care, his pressure on the "Sunday at 2", "HTV Dnevnik" etc. ". I'm finishing my quote. And that's how the circle closes. It is true that journalists are both wrong, but then the owners want to make the most of it by seeking to limit media freedom as much as possible in their favour, and at the expense of the public whose freedom of the media only guarantees information about what is really happening. In such reactions, therefore, as the Media Council said in its statement, it is obvious that some have not learned much about the relationship between the media and the authorities in a democratic society, and simply as part of that, with such a political context and that they have simply developed that tendency to repeat the same mistakes. That's why I think it's time for us to reevaluate ourselves now. In such cases, it was illegal rape in the prerogatives it has and in one free society can only have a medium, only the media can have, so in this sense Croatian Radio Television. Freedom of expression, and thus the freedom of the media is very precise, is very precisely regulated, and in our Constitution, but in almost all constitutions, declarations and declarations and laws, as well as our law. The Croatian Radio Television Act specifically requires that supervisory powers over the implementation of the Croatian Radio Television programme principles and the fulfillment of its public functions are established by law, belong exclusively to the Programme Council and to no one else. The powers of the Croatian Parliament are also clearly prescribed, when Croatia is, and when it comes to Croatian radio television, it chooses and resolves members of the Programme Council, and it is the obligation of the HRT to at least once a year and to consider the report of the Croatian Parliament of the Programme Council on its work, on the work of the Croatian Radio Television and on the implementation of the programme principles, and the report on the business of the Croatian Radio Television. So more, then no less. And no appeal to any founding rights of the State, i.e. The council, it can't even have any influence. For Croatia, broadcasting, other media, founders and owners are completely irrelevant. It doesn't matter who owns it. Is the same, nor is it such a form, whether it is established or works as a public, whether it is in the form of a company. These are irrelevant things for postulates and media independence. However, it is also obvious that we have to meet here, we have to talk about it openly, and not even to get each other something here in the Croatian Parliament, this is not the time that we give it to each other, but to simply correct the mistakes. Because it is obvious that some politicians still have serious difficulties in understanding the meaning and function of broadcasting. It is important, therefore, that Croatian broadcasting and other media be autonomous to the government, to be protected from all political pressures and also to be protected from any financial blackmail. Everything else must be left to the Programme Council, journalists, editors and only the regulatory bodies of the press profession. Of course it is freedom of the media, that freedom of journalists and even on Croatian television is not cheap. Freedom of expression always has one price, but here it is also, here is also an opportunity to ask ourselves how much we all are responsible for this freedom, how much we spread the limits of freedom, whether we narrow them down or invent some more perfidious forms of influence. Politics needs to support media independence, that's one smart policy and it does. On the other hand, the media must really be just in the service of the truth and nothing else. So these are questions then which she must answer and the waist itself and it's good that she's been giving answers to lately, we need to support her because if she doesn't answer those questions again and again in the fullness of asking for answers, then politics will always try to give its own answers, and in any case it won't be the right answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27356	Dear Representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27357	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Croatian broadcasting has started and is still on one road to transition from state media to public service. It was not realistic to expect, nor could it happen overnight. It's a long and hard way to go. First of all, because of the long-term negative legacy. Croatian broadcasting has acted since its draft under the terms of a unilateral, single-party system. At the time, it was perfectly normal for the Croatian Radio Television to be a spokesman for the policy of the only ruling party. In fact, under the conditions of the multilateral system, there has been no significant change. The main director of Television was the vice-president of the strongest party, the ruling party, the parliamentary representative, and all of them were normal. So this is one period of express open domination of politics over the Croatian Radio Television was continued after the introduction of multilaterals into Croatia. The turnaround takes place in 2000 with the decision to free Croatian radiotelevision from political control. So, of course, it was necessary to amend the law. There was also initial wandering, when it was naively believed that the Council of the Croatian Broadcasting Council, which would be drawn up in a way that civil society institutions would directly send their representatives to this Council, would ensure independence from politics. It was a delusion made in good faith, but still a delusion because it proved that the Council so elected was not fulfilling its function, although it did turn into its opposite, which is what fellow Vujic was talking about and that certain members of the Council within that depolitised council set up a new party and actually act politically. This led to a crisis in Croatia's broadcasting, conflict between the administration and the programme part and one situation that was still unsustainable. It created a state of temporaryity that did not allow normal business and work of Croatian Radio Television. A new law has been passed, an existing law, a law that is now in force, that has resolved all these doubts. To continue this process, the transitions from state media to public service now require stability. We have here in all these reports indicated positive trends. It is important to ensure stability so that these positive trends continue, to continue this path of transformation that has well improved, which shows excellent results. Any further immediate destabilization of the house will mean the annulment of these efforts. When we talk about the Programme Council and its report, let's first establish the facts of what the Programme Council has done. It passed the statutes in the short term, it managed to select the director, the director of the programme, within a record period, it achieved good co-operation with the administration. We have no more scandals on Croatian television, no more fights, no more divisions. The Board and the Programme Council cooperate, cooperate well in the interests of the house. That's the stability I'm talking about, which is necessary to maintain, which is necessary to encourage. When it comes to business, we see stability and rises four years in a row. Four years in a row of stability and rises, and that should be supported. And this administration, which has achieved good results four years in a row, needs to be encouraged, needs to be helped to continue with such conditions of stability so that it can complete the process it has begun. Look, the remarks can be made which-what, for example, when it comes to business, may be the relationship between radio and television towards joint business and music production, but this is to be resolved by amendments to the statutes or simply by agreement between Croatian Radio, Television, Music Production and Joint Affairs so that there is no confusion in the financial sense. When it comes to the program, then look, we can share that information program and the others. The information program will never be satisfied with this programme, but what's important here is what's important. It doesn't matter if someone's happy or dissatisfied. The important thing is that the programme is independent of the centres of political power. And what does that mean? This means that no one, but no one can edit the program, no one but the people on Croatian Radio. Because if anyone from the outside starts editing this programme, then we can no longer talk about independence, about independence, about the media independence of Croatian broadcasting. When it comes to the rest of the program, we see the results again, which are the achievements. Croatian radio, here, let's just take this little segment that hasn't been arranged for years. A relationship, therefore, with an emigration program. A 24-stop programme, "the voice of Croatia", has been introduced. Television has introduced an 8-hour "Croatian Image" programme for North America, Australia, New Zealand. Now in the budget that was voted yesterday, it's not approved, there are 500 thousand kuna missing for these programs. There are 500 thousand kuna missing from these programs. So rather than in the Budget, the money with the 500 thousand kuna helps Croatian broadcasting to improve these two programmes, so that they can be properly implemented, there is no understanding. What are the dangers? The greatest danger I see, these are attacks on media independence. How did they go? I dare say they left right after these last elections. First, by objecting to the Council's composition. The Council is politically elected, and it will not succeed in selecting the Director, and it is incomplete, and it will not be able to complete, which has all proved incorrect. The Council is complete by a unanimous decision of the Parliament. The last member of that Council was elected unanimously. The Council has carried out all its tasks set before them by the Law. Announcing an amendment to the law, immediately. By announcing the amendments to the Law, it seemed to me that the pressures outside, the complaints about how television is conveying, say, work or monitoring the work of the President of the Parliament. There is no program independence without financial independence of the house, and the biggest attempt at impact was the tax administration's solution. I have invited Mr. Mladine to deliver this solution to the Tax Administration addressed to Croatia by radio, asking for VAT payment for revenue from the fee of 83 million kuna. I don't have to tell you that I never got that solution. I didn't get any answers from Mr. Youth, but in the government's opinion, look what's standing. HRT has filed a tax ruling complaint, and in this respect, the Government of the Republic of Croatia notes that the Ministry of Finance is under way to resolve this. From April to today, the Ministry of Finance has not resolved Croatia's complaint that the Tax Administration has ordered it to remove 73 million kuna from its account. It's a threat that lasts. If 73 million kuna is removed from the HRT account, there is no financial independence. Without financial independence, there is no program independence. Even today, which means the announcement of the HDZ Club that these reports will be noted, and in Mr. Selem's speech, I have heard two objections. On the educational program, that there's something smaller and that it's in cartoons and that drama shows aren't being recorded. There wasn't a word about the management report. Not a word of the Audit Report, and all three reports are proposed to be kept in mind. I'm afraid that's an announcement. I'm scared. I wish I were wrong, but I'm afraid it's an announcement of an attack on the independence and independence of this house, and that's why I suggest that all of these three reports, because there are no serious objections to them, to accept them and to help both the Board and the Programme Council continue their work in stable conditions. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27358	Thank you. Correction of incorrect allegations, respected representative Zdenka Babić-Petricevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27359	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. My colleague Stazić, the voice of Croatia is not questioned because of 500 thousand kunas that have been reduced by the 2004 Budget, it has not been reduced, they have been reduced since last year, and you know very well that Croatia's voice works through satellites and is not dependent on these 500 thousand kunas. And you've cut it down.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27360	Honorable representative Jure Bitunjac, the second correction to the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27361	Thank you, Mr. President. The esteemed colleague Stazic presented an absolutely wrong thesis. Since the beginning, HRT has been in the service of one policy and one party, and then SDP has come, the state TV has turned public, guaranteed objectivity, public and accessibility to all. That's absolutely not true, fellow Stazic. Croatian television was and should be, promoting national interest on the one hand, and on the other hand, when it comes to accessibility, which you were talking about, and its objectivity, I must say and by watching the pre-election campaign, this last one that was, that HDZ was in solid, I would say solid isolation when it comes to HTV. Therefore, your first or second thesis does not stand. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27362	Honorable representative Peter Selem, correction of an incorrect allegation.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27363	There is no claim from fellow Stazic that my objections only referred to some small reduction in the educational programme or not to the recording of drama performances. Whoever was listening to my presentation heard that a series, I think, of very reasoned, precise remarks compared to the music program, of the cultural program as a whole. Therefore, the claim by fellow Stazic does not stand.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27364	And the esteemed representative of Katarina Fuchek.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27365	Mr. President, Mr. Stazic has cited the IRS' obligation as a certain political pressure. The fact that television is a public medium does not exclude its obligation to do business legally and also to comply with the laws of the Croatian State. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27366	Dear representative Milanka Opačić. ... He's giving up the debate. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Honorable representativeplatimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27367	The Honorable President, the Honorable Director of Television, colleagues and colleagues. I will start with one finding of the average viewer and listener of Croatian Radio, which I believe as well as in football and in some other sports will always show a certain and high degree of dissatisfaction with the TV programme, and, of course, with the TV program for which the subscription is paid. However, we here in this assembly are not average viewers, we are not average listeners. We represent this public, and here we put ourselves in one danger that everything we say, that every grade of ours, that every court can be seen as a certain form of pressure on that public television and on the public radio. So, therefore, realizing that everything I say can be perceived as a certain pressure, I will still take the liberty of expressing several of my personal views and views on Croatian broadcasting. First of all, we are not and cannot debate as owners of Croatian radio television because Croatian broadcasters are citizens. We can discuss here whether when it comes to the business of Croatian broadcasting, whether those objectives and conditions we set for them are met, or whether they are set before them or not. Because if we were owners then we'd probably be talking about how much profit has been made, what are the ratings of certain shows. What I'm interested in here is how much has been invested in certain programmes, how much has been invested in creating conditions for producing a good programme from study to journalists. And I see in the report, especially what happened this year, that, therefore, they are creating at least in Zagreb very good or excellent conditions for the creation of a very quality programme. What my remark here may be, is that somehow it seems to me to be a little bit neglected by journalists, that in the future it should certainly create or provide more money to perfect journalists. So, not only for, it's not just about wages, it's not just about how much journalists will be paid for their work, but it's about how much journalists will have the opportunity to be supported by their house, further perfected, opened new aspects, gained new skills, so that they can produce both a better and a better programme. Because for a good program it's not only important to have a good studio, it's not important just to have a good camera or a good news car for a good program that needs good editors first of all, good journalists are needed, those who will know a good idea, those who will know it well and those who will of course realize it, and of course it's important that those who should provide all the money for it, but here in public television still some of that money comes from a TV subscription then I still think that more important editors and journalists are, for example, more important than producers but they are not negligible. Public television must not or should not be dependent solely on ratings, or on viewers, it must firstly be responsible for subscribers and to the public, so our debate should be focused on how much what happened in the past period is in line with what is the public's interest in the Republic of Croatia as a whole or some of their specific segments. Since subscribers pay a subscription which is some form of a sub-taxation then they have the right to be satisfied with their interests in the ability to hear or see on television or on the radio what is of their interest. Well, regardless of the ratings, whether there's a small segment of the public who wants to watch, hear, see something others don't want, but since these subscribers pay for it then they certainly have the right to see it, about it my colleagues before me have spoken of as, for example, serious music or educational program. It is absolutely certain that the educational program will not have the ratings of one soap opera, but it is quite certain that on public television there must be much more educational program than there is soap opera and there should be more serious music than there is soap opera or someone else and there should be a lot more serious drama program than low budget soaps, so we are talking about public television and not commercial TV. Therefore, it can also worry a little about the balance for the last year where the share of the subscription or if we want the share of the advertising revenue significantly increased, so, however, HTV or HRT went into battle with commercial televisions for viewing or for rent or for buying advertising space, and then, unfortunately, it must go to the expense of these public interests sometimes for there to be more watched shows where they could then be determined, they could sell advertising minutes. I would like to warn you about some things here, so it comes down to the average viewer, first of all, I think that in the future, significant television needs to strengthen its regional programme because the fact that some local news, local topics cannot reach what counterpart Selem was saying in the national programme, but these local topics and local news can be of great importance to local and local people. The county panoramas in this part succeed, however, with both minutes and staff and equipment, they cannot satisfy the public interest of the regional and local population, and I would like to appeal that during the future, more attention is paid to building and equipping regional TV studios and strengthening the personnel component of local studies, because I think this is a comparative advantage of Croatian television over commercial televisions that do not have such a wide-ranging correspondence network and which do not have to distinguish the information programme to the end of the user to the individual in the particular area of the Republic of Croatia. Not everything happens in Zagreb, not everything happens in big centres, big and important things happen for the average for every citizen is the most important thing that happens in his street in his city and his region and it has to find its certain minutes on Croatian television. The second thing I would like to appeal for is to support the documentary programme significantly in the future. The Croatian TV documentary programme was very famous, it was recognised, it was highly rewarded, it seems to me that in the past period it did not get as much importance, it did not get as much space as it had before, and in this diverse and rich Croatia there are extremely many topics that can be processed in the documentary programme to record these documentary shows that will not only make television more informative and educational than it may be today, but it will certainly save it for some future generations. Each documentary emissions recorded shall remain as part of the national culture for future periods. Furthermore, I think that HTV or HRT should be opened to young people, HRT should serve as a public television and as a place or as a possibility for young people or students or those who have recently graduated to get the opportunity to show what they have learned in colleges, to get the opportunity to qualify for what they have done. And finally my observation about that controversy that was taking place at the beginning when this topic came to the agenda in the Parliament, which is how much Parliament needs to be represented on HTV. I personally think that even a small audience of 2% or 3% is of the public interest, I worry about why more citizens don't need to watch the Parliament, not whether it should be a 2% transfer but it's not a problem television that's the problem here in Parliament. When we in Parliament decide on important issues, when important debates will be held here, I am sure that more viewers will watch the transfer from Parliament and there will be absolutely no dilemma whether it should be transmitted or not. However, if the Government announces that it will reject all amendments and it is known that the state budget will be voted upon, forgive me as an average viewer, I have absolutely no interest in watching what happens that day unless I see that one of my MPs or what they say about this amendment and how the other party will vote. So here we are discussing how important we are here in the Parliament, how much we are discussing important topics for Croatia and the citizens in Croatia, not how much television they want or don't want to broadcast. TO BE more interesting for viewers today, more viewers want to see and hear for sure that television would need to broadcast and transmit such a watched program. So in addition to these suggestions that I have said, I will personally support all these reports because I think that HTV or HRT or that it does, that it does, and that it does daily shifts, of course in this segment in this area cannot be made jumps but we must be satisfied if there are shifts, if we have the perception that the media in public ownership is independent that they can freely decide and edit on topics that they will have not only in the public programme, and of course we as representatives of the public should suggest that the other segments of the programme that are not only informative and other roles of the public media, and this is not only informative of what we think would be represented as representatives of citizens and in which way they should be presented. So, I support the reports, and I want this kind of progress that has been made over the past period to continue in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27368	Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative Katarina Fuček.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27369	I must correct the incorrect allegations of Mr. Representative, who, in the context of Parliament's powers and its ratings, said, "When we are here to discuss important matters, then the ratings will be greater." The Parliament has established powers, and you cannot interpret its powers in this way, or you can interpret them in a way where we will stop obstructing the Assembly with meaningless topics, then perhaps even the ratings will be higher, thinking of you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27370	Dear Representative Antun Kapraljevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27371	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Director, dear colleagues and colleagues. I would only touch one plate in this report, and this is Table 13, which is about compensation for the protection of composers, compensation for the protection of performance rights, and costs for using a phonogram of 47 million and 265,000. There's an over-plan for about 8 million kuna. That's 7.28%. I'm not even asking if it's a lot, if it's a little bit, but I want to point out that it's a double hack. It is a clean howler paid by our TV viewers and radio listeners, as well as each of us, going to cafes, going to museums, going to the movies, because once we look at their tariff plan by which the Croatian composers' society has made a fee for public performance and public disclosure of musical works, we remember one ZAMP that collects it all twice. First, it charges all the radio stations, charges Croatian radio and television in a very large percentage. As far as Croatian Radio Television is concerned, this is how 4.4% of radio subscriptions, 1.8% of selected television subscriptions, or if the contract does not agree otherwise, and 2% of the gross revenues of these sources for advertising, congratulations and greetings, etc. That means they take us once when they're running the program, and then they take us on all those shows that they've defined in their tariff. And they take us at music events, at entertainment events, at dance competitions, in hotels, in trade and other business spaces, in transportation, in taxis, in buses, in cinemas, in museums, galleries, exhibitions, sports spaces, entertainment parks, dance schools, game salons, aerobics and fitness, and on telephone services, music machines, and even from players, street players. That means that the same analogy when I come to some coffee shop where I get paid to listen to a certain radio station that I honestly don't want to listen to in that bar or come to the show, so I'm looking at, say, "Reinbranta" doesn't even care what it plays there, it's better not to play anything, but that's what I paid for in the ticket. And I also paid through a subscription to that radio station. I wonder why we've allowed a certain association to bring a tariff that we can't influence at all. Every single caterer is dissatisfied with such a way. In the infirmary, the waiting rooms also have doctors to pay ZAMP. It's a double lock, gentlemen. Because of that double harrass, I think that these 47 million kunas are a lot, not because I don't know in which way you agreed with, for those rights, whether it was 4% or 1.8% or 2% of gross income or any other contract, but I think no matter how much it is, that part should be reduced in any case for the simple reason that we are charged double, and in some cases triple. Because it would be the same if I came to the cafe, sat down to read the newspaper, and paid the Croatian news society for reading the newspaper in a cafe. That would be exactly the same. Or read anywhere in the paper, let's go pay the Croatian Press Society, and then let them distribute. And especially since this distribution cannot be established by chance in which way it is distributed, for no one has ever seen how much money a performer has received. That's why I agree with this report of yours, you did pay it so much, you can't cut it, or you can, I don't know, you'll probably say, in some future negotiations you'll probably try to cut it down, but I'm also appealing to us here to urgently bring amendments and amendments to the law and to resolve that part because people pay double. That means the Turks probably wouldn't have failed if they had a ZAMP, too, would have had a double hack.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27372	Dear Representative Frano Piploic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27373	I would agree with what he said, this fellow, however, he forgot to mention also another very important factor that increases this amount of funds with HUZIPA and ZAMP, which are local radio stations that also pay large funds, and this is one problem that we need to deal with and resolve urgently in this House, because I fear that local information despite all that we have, Croatian Radio and Croatian TV will fall under the burden of these obligations. What my colleague Kapraljevic said is really a big, big problem and there is an urgent need to go about amending and supplementing the Copyright Act, because this is one of the more prescribed ones that was made in the early 1990s and all the rights that they once had in Yugoslavia, they have been transposed without being critical at all and that in some way they have changed according to our options, our possibilities I don't think are what these rights have imposed on us.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27374	Honorable representative of Ante Markov. He's gone. He's losing his word. Dear representative Ivana Sučec-Tracostanec.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27375	Thank you, Mr. President. Starting with the fact that Croatia is a radio-television service in the service of all citizens of the Republic of Croatia, so I will underline this to all citizens of the Republic of Croatia and I assume that there is a high degree of correlation between subscribers, viewers and the public. So, I will ask a few questions concerning the work of the programme council in the report, but what Mr Galic said when he presented this report, so I wrote it down, so I would be interested as an average viewer to say so, but also as a representative of that part of the public who, based on the programme that we had sent me to the Croatian Parliament to discuss at the end and about this report, so as an average viewer, I also personally think that TV is not only informative and what it can choose between the two extremes, which is either the undermining of the public or, in some way, education and public education, there is of course all possibilities between those two extremes. And since the Programme Council was founded to represent and protect this public interest, it was said that the Programme Council acted in accordance with the programme orientation, and then I could conclude if we were not satisfied, and I heard that there were certain objections then there might be a question and a programme orientation, so a program orientation something that I don't suppose is the Holy Scriptures and which could be based on public remarks then perhaps change in the future, so that the public is more satisfied than it is today. And then, of course, it's a question and an opportunity to control the implementation of that program orientation. And speaking of which, of course, I'm glad to see and support in the report, of course, that television should be depolitical, pluralistically oriented, and ultimately far from the government service program, which I as an average citizen think doesn't mean it has to be against the government. Therefore, it does not have to be in the service of power, but it must not or must not be against authority. Because why would Croatian television be more against its authority than German television, than it is English television, than any other public television in European countries with which we will soon be in the common Union. It happens to me sometimes, and I've traveled a lot, and it didn't happen to me in one England, and it didn't happen to me in one Germany that I don't know what country I was in. But sometimes in Croatia, when I look at an example of the Dnevnik which is the most watched show in all the research that I'm not sure I'm in the Croatian state, because half of the journals and the breaking news are moving from some countries, so I don't nominate them here now, so you don't think I'm against them, I'm not. But sometimes I don't know if I live in Palestine or in the Croatian state. So, the news of what is happening in the Middle East is important, but it is not more important than what is happening in Croatia, and we should not spend a good part of the most visible term, and that is why what I am about to apostrophe. The choice of topics and the choice of terms is something that is important here not only in the selection of programs, but as those who share the Christian worldview know that there is also a failure of sin, I would talk more about what has not been published, so the choice of news forms a public court of what has happened or has not happened in Croatia. And what's not on TV, let's be fair, of course, as if it never happened. And the choice of a term is something that we think the future programming council and the programming orientation will take into account, and I'm going to say it on a concrete example. So, about two and three months ago in Koprivnica, a new state-of-the-art powdered drug factory owned by Belup opened in Europe, and that factory was opened by Dr Ivo Sanader, the president of the Croatian government, which broke at 12 o'clock in the afternoon. The news has been published, so the form is satisfied. Just that day in the news at 2:00. There was no afternoon, nor in Dnevnik, nor in the last news of the day, which I do not think should be, therefore, a marriage to the president, Dr. Ivo Sanader, but it should be a marriage to the Croatian mind because it is a factory made by Croatian knowledge, Croatian technology and Croatian money and should be in my opinion as many positive examples as possible in the information programme of what happened well in Croatia. So, of course, it's not news that "the dog bit a man, but that man bit a dog" if we check out a journalist's profession. But I think that not only should we present negative examples, but it should also be done to present what the Croatian man is doing with his intelligence, with his knowledge in the Croatian state, and there is much more to it than what TV represents that he has, therefore, and that is also the task of television to create national self-awareness and develop the sense of citizens according to the values that are represented in most Croatian populations. I'm not going to say that I was very worried about a sentence, I'm not sure if I interpreted it well from Mr. Galic's speech when he said it. "We have problems with professional maturity," but this is now a question of "we will not solve by questioning acquired achievements". So does that mean that if someone's achieved being some kind of journalist who, therefore, is wrong, is not professionally mature, I don't see any reason why these achievements don't rise to a higher level, so that the journalists who incontinently violate the principles that are contrary to everything we stand for are removed? And about names, of course, we won't, I'm sure a good part of the viewer when the character of the one who is lying to the Dnevnik appears, but in advance he knows in which way the topic will be presented and what will not be said. So, I advocate that as many as possible present positive economic examples, young scientists, winners of various international awards in all areas that we have a bunch of people who are unknown in Croatia, and are very well known around the world. Well, even our youngest ones have earned maybe a little less horror cartoons sometimes, because I'm an adult, but sometimes I get scared of a few cartoons, and then imagine how they're just having kids from year to year and up, who still want to or don't want it with as much as we try sometimes not to watch television too much and not make aggression with them, so they're looking at it anyway. And finally let me say a little bit about the financial report and something visible, which is that, in commercial sales, it was much more successful than the purchase and that something that happens every year still hasn't been solved, so I wonder, what was it before? If a positive shift in the financial business, on page 5, that goods were purchased where the contract was not concluded, that the suppliers were not selected in the public tendering procedure, that goods and services were not even supplied at the time of the selection were invoiced, that there were no different prices and there were no amounts to which these audit remarks were concerned, and they were not corrected from year to year, and they were not corrected in 2003, and they were not corrected in the amount of some 600 million kuna, which was spent in total on material costs and services from Television. So, I consider it a duty to take care of the money of subscribers and the interest of the Croatian public that TV is obliged to correct these actions in the process of supplying goods and services and that there are no excuses why I am not talking about 2003 today. I expect that in the report that we will comment on next year, we will avoid it. So I thank and hold that part of my remarks is part of the objections of people who are the same opinion as I am. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27376	Replica, the esteemed representative of Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27377	Dear colleagues, you have dedicated yourself to teaching editors and journalists of Croatian Radio Television how to work. So you made an effort to show them that they don't know how to value the news, how they can't make triage, how they can't arrange the shows because some visit by Prime Minister Sanader in Koprivnica didn't do enough quality work, they didn't present enough to the public. Then you found out how to replace journalists when they're unprofessional. So who's going to be the one to determine whether they work professionally or not? I just hope you won't be it's either anyone else, or me, or any of the other MPs in this House. Because this whole exposure of yours is actually one form of pressure on the programming, editorial independence of HRT. If these journalists who organize information shows are going to fear how we're going to determine their shows here, evaluate them, then their programming independence has nothing, absolutely nothing. And if these are the reasons why your club suggests that these reports should only be taken into account and not accepted, then it is a dangerous threat to media freedoms in this country, especially media editorial freedom of journalists and editors of HRT.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27378	Thank you. Reply to the replica esteemed representative Ivana Sučec-Tostancec.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27379	A fellow Stazić, by which my exposure to which I only wanted to point out the possibilities of improving the programme's orientation and implementation and orientation on Croatian television would be more pressure than your exposure in which at all costs you wanted to maintain the existing state that you think is excellent, I think it can be better. So the pressures are mine and yours are exactly the same! And I don't see any reason why anyone here except you, of course, could understand that I can push someone, I just want to talk publicly about what people say, not everyone, can't come to the Parliament, but talk about TV, television, those who do it and their money with whose money they do it. Therefore, your and my pressures are exactly the same. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27380	Second Replicated MP Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27381	Thank you, Mr. President, the esteemed colleague of Judge-Thrakostanec has spoken among other things and this. And I think it's like this, it deserves one comment. There are therefore journalists who are not mature, so some scenes from Palestine show up and that is not published when our Prime Minister Sanader opened, was present at the opening of the factory in Koprivnica. Do you really think it's you, and I don't think it's anyone in this room, that you're a measure of maturity for journalists? And you really have serious problems with understanding that these are independent media, what independent broadcasting should be. Would you be a mature journalist who would turn off the terrible scenes from Palestine? Which, in the first breaking news, would tell us where our prime minister is right now. Well, it's also the whole of the law and the application and the reports here that we're discussing today that doesn't exactly happen.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27382	Replica reply, honorary representative Ivana Sučec-Tracostanec.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27383	Dear counterparts Antičević-Marinović, Dr. Ivo Sanader is a perfect measure of the will of Croatian people who have made it possible for him to lead the government of this country to benefit all citizens and that is correct. And I, in advance, fenced myself from possible, so I said this innuendo that he was opening, that he was not important, and I should have said it myself, I should have told my fellow Stazic, but I left time to say it to you now, too, but the event was also a measure of the intelligence of Croatian scientists, Croatian technologists, Croatian pharmacists, Croatian doctors and ultimately Croatian patients who will have Croatian medicine, in the Croatian state, and we will probably export it. And once again, it's the most modern technology in Europe. And so, dr. Ivo Sanader had the honor of calling the company's administration to cut the tape and implement everyone who was there, there were several thousand, so turn it on, I'm not going to go on personal and compare it to opening elevators in courts because that would really be below the level of what I'm talking about here. But in this case, Croatia should have heard the news several times and more than once in 2 hours. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27384	And the third replica, Honored Representative Marin Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27385	Well, I wouldn't want to deal with ancient Greek philosophy or Parmenida or any other philosophers who talked about what's the perfect measure, is the measure of all things that are, non-existent, but certainly none of us, nor Dr Ivo Sanader is a perfect measure, so this one, I think I'm defending him from your words now, and I'm defending him from some Greek philosophy. The Council of Croatian Television exists precisely in order to deal with editorial policy, how it is implemented, programmes, etc. We as Parliamentarians, as professional politicians who are very burdened with our character and work, but it looks more like a character than a piece, so we think that the measure is whether we exist or do not exist only in a consistent manner for minutes on television. I think we should still be something more modest when we think we can even edit, not criticize. To criticize both you or me or praise, it doesn't matter, but it doesn't occur to me that some news should be here for two minutes, three there, four up or five down there, because it really isn't, it seems to me our job here. It's not our job, it's not our job. And we really need to enable the Croatian Television Council to deal with this and there are more TVs in Croatia today, so we can turn CNN on, so when we see that the funeral of Arafata is the main news everywhere in the world then it would be strange to have something from Koprivnica or Split as the main news and not that. Then we'd be talking about unprofessional television. Actually, there's so much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27386	It's a protagora, not Parmenid. Reply to the replica respected representative Ivana Sučec-Tracostanec.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27387	I have no time to go into philosophical discussions in various philosophical directions through various historical times but if it is a Council of Croatian Radiotelevision respecting each member by person, deeply personally, respecting their work as bodies, I personally think that the Council does not, therefore, have certain tasks. And yet the public, therefore, all citizens, the last of that valve, insurance, whatever you call it or control mechanism that has the right, has the right to morally, has the right to materially, has the right to comment and to propose, does not mean to push it, does not mean to edit it, and I will remain with my position to think that the Belupo factory should have been on TV that day in a different period and that every good news from Croatia of this type should be in prime time not only to be seen by sick, housewives and pensioners and I do not underestimate them, but they are watching at some time while others at work are television, and the information program starts with the Dnevnik at night for those who perform other activities during the day and who are as busy as we are at the end. And these people deserve true objective and real information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27388	Honorable representative Katarina Fuchek.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27389	Mr. President, colleagues and fellow MPs. The HRT Act stipulates that Croatian television and Croatian radio media are in service of public interest, which means that their programme must be diverse with the proper representation of information, educational, cultural and entertainment content and accessible to all citizens. Croatian Radio and Croatian Television as public media should be independent of political or any other influence and must promote culture and promote creativity and promote the values of the society in which they operate, and therefore an important role in representing and protecting public interest shall be the Croatian Radio Television Programme Council which oversees the implementation of the programme principles and obligations laid down by law. In order for public television to play a major and perhaps crucial role, it has a stability in financing where the tax is prescribed by law, a direct link between the public and Croatian television, as well as the obligation of Croatian broadcasters to provide objective information and software content to the public, which may not have great visibility unlike commercial television, public service must be to all citizens, not to certain target groups, and to provide viewers with a wide range of opportunities. In addition to the quantity to provide quality. So, Croatian broadcasting as a public media service is a public service, funded by the public and controlled by the public. Since the legal obligation of the HRT is also the submission of a report on the work of the Council, the submission of the report on the operation of the HRT Parliament has an important role to play in the public's interest to consider the action of the Council and the business of the HRT all in order to further improve HRT's work as a public media which, as such, must be the basis for further democratisation of society and the approximation of established world standards in the field of information. This means that the adoption of the Law on HRT itself, and the establishment of the Programme Council, does not stop the right of the founder or the right of the Parliament or the right of the public to discuss critically all segments of HRT business in particular on the implementation of programme principles in order to improve the role of public service of citizens. Freedom and independence of the media are the main indicators of the democratic maturity of society. And if the freedom of the media in the most important definitions is based on freedom of expression of opinion, inviolability and protection of human dignity and personality, independence from politics, free flow of information and openness of public reads for different opinions, beliefs and diverse content, availability of public information, autonomy of editors, journalists and other software content in accordance with the programme bases and professional code, personal responsibility of journalists and other contributors and editors for the consequences of their work, the independence of the media in relation to powerful sponsors, then in the context of this, I must mention a recent interview by a news editor on the request of journalists whether the pressure of certain major corporations on HTV is greater than politicians, who replied: "Absolutely yes". And I think that's going to be a big problem for us in the future. Recently, a corporation has been blackmailing us not to advertise on HRT anymore if it's because of some particular invited guest on the show. What was the media echo of that pressure? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, And is it pressure and is it pressure on freedom of the media and influence on editorial policy? Yeah. Whether we have different, different standards in our assessment, which means that we only take into account what is right for us, and we do not take into account what does not suit us, and we must strive to respect all the specifics and in this respect every medium, so TV as a public medium must have the strength to accept well-intentioned criticism, as well as an observation in order to remove professional and other failures. That is why I am also returning to that meeting of the President-in-Office who was mentioned here and who, in the context of the improvement, the monitoring of the work of the Parliament and the co-operation with the Parliament, was, in fact, media pressure on the President of the Parliament, and forgetting that he has both the law and the Constitution established powers to represent and represent that particular public through the Parliament. Does this mean that today's critical debate by the MPs should be hampered by a certain fear of qualified for media freedom? Or it would be in the interest of the media and the entire Croatian public to discuss freely and critically and to give the public objective information. For this reason, it has always been debated about HRT whether a new law was passed, whether reports and representatives were submitted to, in their mandates representing this particular public, always sought to point out certain problems faced by HRT and, accordingly, to find appropriate solutions or to force HRT to address shortcomings in its functioning. So, if we are systematically looking at them so far, and also from these reports, we do not know whether the most burdensome problems of HRT as: undefined powers and relations between individual HRT bodies, the discrepancies between programming and management functions, the fall of professionalism particularly in the information programme, the political commentatoric bias in relation to objective information, the privatisation of individual segments of the programme, the non-compliance of professional standards in relation to the selection of individual editors, the failure of individual events, or the inadequate evaluation of individual events. And it has also been mentioned and it appears that individual bodies are HRT speakers of individual political options. I'm warning the report we're discussing is a 203 report. And commercialization beyond the conditions laid down. In order to better monitor the relations between individual bodies and the consistency of these functions, it would be good to give this report accompanied by an organisational scheme to better monitor the organisational structure of hierarchy, delegation of competence, and accountability. The non-functionality of some departments has also been observed, as a new one is being opened parallel to the already existing one, which could be interpreted as a formal organisation but informal influences. As according to the law, the main activity of HRT is production and broadcasting of the programme, it is assumed that professionalism is a fundamental criterion and a constant tendency to meet and achieve as many professional goals as possible. It's so unsatisfactory, incomplete information about the number of employees. If it's 31.12. In 2003, there were 3589 employees and 430 more than a year of rupee, we have a gender division, and we do not contribute to the qualification structure of employees by individual departments. For public television, the information program is very important. It's not the Dnevnik fair, although it's tradition and term, it's certainly the most watched show. In this case, HTV is required to inform the Croatian public in a timely manner about all issues of public interest. Information must be accurate, objectively integrated, and how it will be a journalistic process is a matter of professional approach, and other elements which means the public has the right to information and not an editor to crossover. HTV must not compete in the information program, I apologize, it does not have to compete in the information program with commercial televisions, because they can have a different approach. They are not public institutions, because HTV has both human and technical assumptions that quality informs its citizens without sensationalism.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27390	Representatives, please finish.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27391	No politicizing, no cutting information. And allow it, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27392	I can't allow it anymore.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27393	Then thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27394	Replica. Honorable representativeplatimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27395	Your Honor, I will use this time to respond to the insult she has made in correcting the incorrect allegations of my debate by claiming that what I suggest or what we suggest is meaningless. And it's because of this nonsense that we're proposing such a small viewing of Parliament's transfer. I'm sorry it wasn't you who protected me and my colleagues whose insult was addressed. But I think it is inadmissible from anyone to claim that any proposal by any representative in the Croatian Parliament is meaningless. That's the first one. And secondly, of course, that has an impact on the ratings of the transmission of Croatian television. Unfortunately, again, the situation is felt that the opposition should do nothing, except that it could possibly praise the government's proposals several times. But if we do so, then there is no need for us to meet, except on Fridays when we decide only on the wise proposals of the Government. We here have all our powers, we have our own electoral legitimacy, and forgive colleagues Fuček what jevalos to the citizens of Koprivnica and Križevci County and the electoral unit from which you and I come is very important. It's very important how you voted yesterday on the amendments to the State budget and they're going to get some money. They'll be given back the money they've put into the state budget. That's very important to them. And they want to know what it is and how much it's going to get in the state budget. It saddens me that you have an attitude that what I suggest sucks and that what my colleagues suggest. And I ask the president to listen to him like this in the future and to protect him from insults.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27396	About that later. The reply to the replica of the esteemed representative Katarina Fuček.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27397	Mr. Mršić, that is exactly what you said because you said that the ratings of the Parliament would be greater if we discussed important and important matters. If they don't matter and matter what they're like? Second. I said that, in accordance with the constitutional powers of the Parliament, he is currently dealing with matters of public interest. And that certain proposals lead to obstruction of the work of this Parliament, and in that context, you have found yourself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27398	The second replica of the esteemed representative, Josip Leko.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27399	Thank you very much, Mr. President, I hope this won't be an obstruction. But I just want to make two points. Get out. Inaccurately, Croatia has been told that it has only a public function. Namely, Croatia's radio television has only 50% of the revenue, which is alimony or more expensive from the subscription. Then 50% of the funds should be provided from the commercial function of television, so it brings television itself, it could be said to be in an impossible position. Secondly, public protection in the public interest of public interest in Croatian television is really incorporated by the Law on Croatian Radio Television, therefore, by the institutional programming council of the Croatian Radio Television, and it should insist to the end that it has its function legally without interference even if it was the Parliament. This is the sense of the legal meaning of the Council, and our role should be slightly more subtle about the development of Croatian radio-television without influence on the programme, or the arrangement of the programme. Unfortunately, all the debates went in this direction, to evaluate the programme, even if it was a good obligation, it was really an involvement in the arrangement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27400	Thank you. The reply to the replica of the esteemed representative Katarina Fuček.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27401	Col. Leko, 55% of the fees coming into the Croatian TV budget are about 700 million kuna. This is a significant taxpayer’s money, i.e. viewers who participate and seek in this regard. And in this context, through all their representatives, they have the right to refer both criticisms and suggestions, and I think that all that is said should be understood that way. Program viewers watch and have fun with it. It is also the obligation of Croatian television. But also, broadcasting and production are not seen from the report whether those laws required 10% of the programs purchased from independent production houses or produced on domestic Croatian television. If we are representatives of a citizen in some sense, then we are free and rightly asking such questions, that is, it is our duty to ask such questions. To ensure that all institutions in Croatia are in an equal legal position to comply with the laws and obligations under these laws.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27402	Third replica. Dear representative Bozica Šolić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27403	Thank you very much. When Mrs. zastica Katarina Fuček mentioned the failure of certain events, which are important and important to the public. I report to the replica to present one of me and to say the inappropriate actions of Croatian television on the day of the greatest casualties of the Croatian people, which is November 18th Vukovar and Škabrnja. On November 18th, on HTV, the 1st programme, a documentary show "Doctor Njavro in Vukovar in 2002" was screened. The show shows the memories of Dr. Njavre and Dr. Vesne Bosnian about the suffering and suffering of their patients during the bombing and entry of an occupation Serb army into a Vukovar hospital. Documentary footage shows the terrible injuries of civilians, children and the capture of Croatian defenders. It is also depicted in documentary footage the life of returnees after peaceful reintegration, their sad memories of their loved ones who died in horrors in the fall of Vukovar. Imagine, the show was broadcast at midnight, as one agent Tadic said only owls were awake at midnight. So, in a time when the least viewer is in front of the screens. It's a particularly worrying sentence that Dr. Njavro said, which confirmed his hunches, and it says: "I'm interested in whether or not it will be when this show is shown and in what time?" Unfortunately, we can conclude from this once again, as well as the Croatian audience, because I am asked in front of the audience, what is the attitude of editorial policy towards the Homeland War, Croatian defenders and our greatest casualties. This is unfortunately one of the many examples of this on HTV about the non-value of events that are important and important to the public so that if there were any editorial professionalism and will, then at least on the day of the loss of Vukovar shows should be put in the most visible time. The memories of the injuries in Skabrnj are dedicated... /... Thank you very much, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27404	Thank you very much, colleague, thank you very much. Replicate response, distinguished representative Katarina Fuček.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27405	Mr. President, when my colleague mentioned the lack of value for the event, I was sure to speak of an unprofessional approach that was observed about inadequate evaluation of events on Croatian television. However, allow me at this point to set an example from the educational programme already mentioned here, which in the organisational scheme of the educational programme continues to exist in a formal sense there has been nothing changed, but in reality changes are so great that they penetrate certain programming principles and obligations of HTV as public television. In some terms of the educational programme on Croatian television, as has already been said, instead of the shows that spoke about Croatian culture, science, literature, history and what contributes to the development of national consciousness and the creation of an atmosphere where work, knowledge and our national television will be appreciated, broadcast by already broadcast foreign series, while the emissions of their own production do not have a permanent term, but depend on the transfer of the Assembly session. You'll have to draw your own conclusions.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27406	Dear representative, Ruža Lelic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27407	Thank you, Mr. President. Gentlemen from Croatian Radio and Croatian Radio Television, colleagues and colleagues. So in my presentation, I will look at the implementation of the programming principles and obligations established by the law on Croatian Radio and Croatian Radio Television programmes. This report shows that Croatian Radio and Croatian Radio TV also achieved numerous and diverse programmes in 2003. Croatian radio certainly takes a significant place in information, education and entertainment. The report says that 70% of the total Croatian Radio program is the product of the music programme, and has the advantage of being available in the red spot, travel and the like. I'm happy to listen to him myself. I mean local and regional radio stations here. The data that Croatian Radio listens to 50% of potential listeners speak for it, as well as the fact that there is an increased interest in advertising and that this type of service participates in 30% of radio revenues, which is certainly good, because it provides one financial stability. When it comes to Croatian television, I would look back, as it is often pointed out here on the information program. The report notes that the Dnevnik is the central show, as well as the most visible, which is certainly not controversial. In Dnevnik, as the central and most visible information show, the news should indeed be diverse, and objective information should be provided to the viewer freed from political colour and without pressure, and in all colleagues the colleagues have pointed out so far. Here I'd like to take one of my, uh, sightings. In fact, public opinion is being created, and here in the assembly every opinion expressed is interpreted as a pressure on independent journalism. Whether it's a reflection of our young democracy for 15 years or whether it's a concern that the scales on freedom of journalism don't fall down, I don't know, but I don't think that anything in a democratic society should be a forbidden topic. The debate on reporting, the presentation of its opinion cannot be identified with, as it was wanted to be pointed out here by disciplining the media or by political pressure or by weakening the freedom of the media and so on. Therefore, I also assess the position of the Committee on Informing, Information and Media that the media should respect the right to a second opinion and be open to criticism. Sometimes central information shows from evening to night deal with more sensations are irrelevant for society as a whole and for its information. It's too much of a black chronicle, while some important news, I'd like to agree here with colleagues who spoke before me, some important news, some successes, our people's prizes, more or less shyly or smudged. The information programme should provide more positive examples, especially from economic life, and should avoid sensationalism, violence and other negative phenomena through the Dnevnik and other information emissions, and focus more on the needs of citizens. HRT as a public and national television, we still have to stress this here, as public and national television, should take into account national and public interests, and which certainly does not identify with pressure and... with the support of a ruling, ruling party or any other. [[You don't understand.]] And as an extremely important medium, contribute to the creation of one and a stable and positive atmosphere. I can't accept, here we also have the same opinion, that because of the need to satisfy the information market HRT should deal with sensations, because we still don't forget the revenue from the subscription of more than 700 million kuna, it makes up the largest part of the income, so it provides it with one stability of business and independence. Then I think that quality and informative emissions, as well as some and now what they show are broadcast either in the early or late hours when ratings are lower. And let me get this straight. So we need more information emissions at the appropriate time, more emissions about the economy, positive examples in the economy from which we will learn something and which will encourage us to create. The report also cites examples of monitoring the visit of the Holy Father of the Pope, which I think was high-level and professionally processed and such articles were and many more and should not be listed here. When it comes to the production of the domestic drama programme, it is certain that its production is expensive, but the Croatian Radio Television Financial Report states that the profit of 68 million kuna was achieved in 2003. Now, if maybe one piece could be used for this part, as well as the film production, and in this respect I see some progress these past months. I'd also look back at the movie program. The report said that more than 600 films were shown, that there were 800 reprisals, but they can't be taken from the impression that reruns are often, that at small intervals they repeat, often in a few days or weeks, that movies are full of violence, mass murderers, psychopaths and other deviating behaviors, and very rarely you can watch a film with life topics from which you can learn something or such films are again in an inappropriate term. Because of the influence on viewers, we need movies without violence, because we have lived it in the recent past, and even now some of our citizens experience it in the family or in general in society, and we know that individual viewers, especially children and youth, can be identified with an idol and a role in the film. When it comes to religious culture, given that we are a country with high Catholic participation, according to some indicators, is that we are the most Catholic country in Europe and the doctrine of the church should be more strongly represented, because this spirit of tolerance of doing good and promoting common human values, and all with the purpose of spiritual restoration of the population, and we need it very much. Here I certainly mean the representation of other religious communities, not just the Catholic Church. I think HRT should have a audience service despite better monitoring and satisfaction of viewers as well as monitoring the ratings of individual shows. I would also point out the need for stronger development of local and regional networks and radio and television, which for informing citizens about issues directly related to the area in which they live and work, the network may be satisfying but there are great difficulties in financing these local media, so it is important that the Law on Electronic Media established a Fund to promote pluralism and diversity of electronic media in which HRT would pay 3% of the tax, the second question is whether this is sufficient and whether these obligations are met. And finally to conclude. Both Croatian Radio and Croatian Television are public and national institutions that should certainly take care of national and public interests, serve information and education, Enlightenment, help the spiritual restoration of the population as they do in part, but I think they can make a positive and important move. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27408	Thank you very much. Replica, the esteemed representative of Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27409	You see, esteemed colleagues, it's a very simple matter. No critical opinion on the programme is prohibited, but if this critical opinion is derived from the position of power, then it could not be acceptable. The critical opinion on the programme must remain in the sphere of privacy. Evey and I are television viewers, I don't have to be satisfied with the whole program like I didn't, but I can't use the position of MPs to put this critical opinion on the program to put political pressure on HRT's editorial structure, that's the difference. If the conclusion had not been proposed, it would have been noted, and the arguments were made exclusively such, only such as not enough to value Sanader's visit, if we weren't satisfied with this or that part of the information program, then I wouldn't be performing like this. You know, there's something that's better customs like that. commenting, not only legal obligation but also better customs, commenting on the inadmissible judgments. Well, I can have my own private opinion on what it's like. Ankica Tudjman was released and the Prince was sentenced to two years on probation, I guess two years on parole should no longer report him giving him bribes. But that's my private opinion. I, from the position of MPs, have no right to comment on the inadequacy of judgments, and you from the position of MPs, you or I or anyone else cannot comment on the programme, by showing your dissatisfaction with this programme and only by its political part, which is part of an information programme that monitors political activity to make it an argument that a quality report is not accepted. You know, there's political influence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27410	Replica reply, respected representative Ruža Lelic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27411	Thank you, Mr. President. Here Mr. Stazic says that in my political part I am dissatisfied, I have not mentioned here at all any of... but I have looked back at what I am and as a viewer and as a representative I see and I do not consider myself any power to be able to influence anyone and anything. We talked here about the impact of television as a public national television that needs to be encouraged and general human values, general values, give more positive examples, and because of the known impact on general public opinion and on the development of all situations in society. But here's how it is now that we're discussing I think this for the director of Croatian Radio and for the Council should be a real incentive for one studio thinking. Here, when we look at it, we see one side that highlights extraordinary pleasure. I don't think, I don't think it's a reflection of democracy and impartiality, but I do think they're satisfied with the report and the other side that's expressing its position again. They both have a right, but they should certainly be an incentive for an objective and impartial analysis of what speech clips are taken and broadcast, how they are often broadcast, what is broadcast and really getting the impression as a viewer now that there's a lot of sensationalism that doesn't contribute to us and a black atmosphere is created as if we're always threatened with some kind of failure or some black future. So I think that Croatian broadcasting could contribute, and in that sense I also debated.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27412	Thank you. Dear Representative Zlatko Kramarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27413	Thank you, Mr. President-in-Office. Dear ladies and gentlemen, the honored representatives of Croatian television. I hope that no one will be angry that some discussions brought me back to my early youth at the time we watched, when before every film we watched that journal or film news that regularly informed us where the then lifetime president of the country where he was, who he visited, what he said, how he was welcomed and how his successes were also our successes. Somehow, since it's actually very slow or almost in no way our mental circuit is changing, I can see that some would be very happy to repeat that pattern of behavior and that it seems to them that it's actually an ideal measure that would somehow valorize our present state again. So every debate on Croatian television, about its report, about the laws that are being passed on to the composition of the Programme Council was really nothing more than a debate about ourselves every time, and it has always been shown that politics refers to one such fact and that politics is actually the only one that creates problems and that we have already repeated several times about these many debates, that in each of us a small totalitarian is either left, right, liberal and that everyone would actually want his picture and his character and work to be properly presented in the media, especially in television, and when it seems then we are usually not satisfied with the quantity and quality of that presentation and also nothing new, thousands and thousands of pages and books are written, and yet there, he said, "who is the government of signs of television is a pair of exellence, it is a sign of government and people." And I have a feeling that after all the elections it's very important to win the elections and get a majority in parliaments, but then after these elections comes another one, which is how in some way to subdue or control public media, or, above all, television is rightly considered the most powerful media. And there are no too many differences between all of our political options. Someone makes it less or more discreet, more subtle, and someone seems to have just been the fact that he's got one kind of trust, then that it also allows him to have his own unrepeated attitude about everything and so on about television. So what it is is, in which second it must appear, how many times, how many times a day and how long it takes. But I also belong to that political option that won't run away from commenting, that in some way it has a relationship to a fact called Croatian television, but we still have to admit that we've come a certain way, up to the 90s, when we're nothing but a continuation of what happened in 70s and 80s when the people of politics were directors. When one dares to say, that he comes from a democratic country, from Canada and that it is only in itself self-evident that even then, since he knows what democratic joys are, it will be such television. That still turned out to be not working. Well then we had that situation that some international organisations measured our minutes, so who took how many times, which party, which political option... It appears. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So again, when we still have some way to overcome it, and when we realize that really the principle of professionalism and freedom and autonomy of editors, journalists, TV management must be something that is in itself predominant, then again some wanted to return to that time and they felt that they were now cut off. But it seems to me that we actually have one problem of defining what it is. We would actually like television to be better than we really are, and that is one dimension of the problem. And the other dimension of the problem, which is, when we try to define what reality is, so reality is certainly certain successes achieved by our athletes, our scientists, our politics, when there are, but also reality are strikes, reality here is dissatisfaction, reality is also a large number of unemployed people. And now it's always about what we think is more important. If we are always, we belong to a non-critical position, then we think that the first one is too small, that there are too few successes and these apologetics, and if we belong to a frustrated opposition, then it seems to us that this second one is actually more important and we can't agree on priorities. We think we really need it, and I would like this reform course that exists as some consensus of all the political options in this society, that it actually continues, that it can in some way just be manifested and out of sight, and in our relationship to television. If I was hoping that these threats that could lead to this, which might be possible today with the fact that this report would be taken to the knowledge, then I'm afraid we'd start coming back very soon, back to the mid- or late 1990s, and it certainly wasn't a good situation, and that's what we've been trying to change. I'm saying, even in that change of condition, there was a lot of awkwardness, it was whole, it was out of prolonging some very important laws and some decisions under that law that weren't spotlessly applied, but yet we, I say, came to that situation where we're all unhappy, which can be very good because it shows or that journalists really do work independently, that these are also people with their own ideological preferences. But what is very important, if we want to live in a stable, democratic society, is that we also recognise the right to both error and the right to some possibly poor assessment, which is actually what it is or doesn't matter. In that sense, as a representative, I will give full support to the continued independence of television, which should further be the principles of democracy, plurality, so that very diversity must be present because I say, reality is not just what it seems to me or anyone. No one has a monopoly over the truth and this principle of regionalism, or the principle of decentralisation, so that the more important they are just getting individual centres, because I say, Croatian history, the political history of Croatia is, however, the history of small centres that should continue to be encouraged and that life is not only happening in Zagreb, it is not just Pantovacak, Mark’s square, in the Assembly, Government, but that life is much more complex than these events in some institutions. So I also hope that this very fact that we have reached a consensus on this reform course that is very important and which, and the ruling party promotes it, would be very dangerous if that course just gave up on this relationship with television. Because in fact, in some ways, it also shows how much society there is, how certain a political option is willing to face and that picture that may not be used every time, and that it simply realizes that it is part of this reality, and that sometimes it is not necessary to blame the bad, or the bearers, or those who bring the news, but that sometimes it is necessary to change their own practice. Something needs to be changed in what is called political, economic, cultural life. In that sense, as a man who still has a right because I said so and then when I was both an opposition and part of a position towards relations with television, let's let them do their job. These are also people who have, I say, the right and the wrong, but we believe deeply in the political and in literacy of our public who can really assess when certain manipulations happen, and the most dangerous and something is actually unacceptable, which is that we allow ourselves to put unnecessary political pressures on these people who work and to try some activities, mechanisms to change that situation in favour of just one political option. I hope that doesn't happen, and I hope we give up the movie news from the '60s and '70s after all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27414	Dear Representative Jagoda Maja-Martinčević.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27415	Your Honor, Mr. President...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27416	I'm sorry, I'm sorry, yes. Replica, a respected representative of Ivana Sučec-Trakostanec.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27417	I have no idea how to deal with someone's mental circuit, but I can't help but react to this speech from the height of a colleague who's not talking about the content of what his previous fellow MPs were saying, talking about their mental frame thinking about what he might be. Then I will make clear colleagues and help and say that my mental set, and I think that the mental set of every intellectual who fights for the greater good is clearly, loudly and regardless of the consequences that his statements will bring to him. So he has to fight for the common good and he has to fight for this troubled people and this people in transition, he has the right to information he deserves. So, you won't do me any good, colleagues, to say that the mental set of our people is closer to these soaps, and now I'm going to say that, I haven't said that before, in which you don't see any man or man reading a book, no character to say so, no matter what sex it was, let alone a shovel, a brick spoon or even a computer. So all they have are phones. It's the best means of communication. I will not say that it is closer to the mental part of the Croatian people than something else. So, fellow, it's much easier to deliver from the height than to fight for concrete changes and also on Croatian television. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27418	Dear Representative Jagoda Maja-Martinčević. ... That's what you've done now. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] It wasn't, Mr. Kramaric. [[/Intruder: No, no.]] I'd be happy to give you my word or I'd like to make it possible again on the reform course and others, but you didn't because I followed you closely, you didn't, I wouldn't give it to you without a problem but you didn't, so I can't give it to you. Dear Representative Jagoda Maja Martincevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27419	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Director of Croatian Radio Television, colleagues and colleagues. They can indeed exchange their colleagues from the opposition who are calling these Reports and are concerned about our finding that we are only taking them into consideration and not how they would like it, because for them they are, i.e. for the opposition much since 2000, it hasn't changed in this most important public media. We're all equal, but some are evener but today and more subtle especially in politics on television. We've heard here that it's wrong for Parliament's MPs to point out examples because in this way they interfere in culture, in sport in any segment, and that's direct influence and of course mostly on politics. I believe, however, that I have to intervene just as a parliamentary representative whom someone has chosen, and that someone is talking to her about many problems and so on television, and another reason gives me the right to know that over the past 30 years I have been the author of some 3,000 shows that on the radio, which, therefore, I can also say something from the position of a professional. First of all, what is holding you back, and these are informative political emissions, I allow myself the freedom to say that they truly do not represent the government's information equally, the information of those who are in power today and those who are in opposition today, and especially not in relation to the past 40 years when the Croatian Democratic Community was completely insulated in the media and on television, it is about the influence on the media. Of course, no one in their right mind thinks that you should also phone and urinate and ask with a saying to say or not because I say the methods are more subtle and when you are today following the Dnevnik and a series of radio shows, especially in the morning program, you will hear much more about the opinions of today's opposition, so former ministers than those who are in power today are responsible for what they are doing. Now, can unprofessionalism be measured by independence, because that was also the case, because the apriority of perseverance on me will say "media freedoms" carries in itself a great danger, carries like, wearing a non-professionalism where someone really needs to end up, here someone from the opposition said who would end non-professionalism, we parliamentary representatives do but there are mechanisms that need to end. The false information, the distorted information, the content of nature as well as the poor language of mispronunciation of names, etc., all this belongs to the work of professionals, and today I am responsible for saying that most journalists are not only on Croatian television, but in general in our media they are not professionals, at least not on those occasions by which journalistic professionalism is measured in the world. Now I'm going to quote something to support the story of unprofessionalism. In the morning list, I may also find a date, as of October 2nd, today's programme director says: "I would really like someone to explain to me why we should have an educational function with all the educational institutions in this country." So if Mrs. Šimić doesn't know this, I will quote to her the Law on Croatian Radio Television, which says in Article 5(3): "To inform the public about political, economic, social, health, cultural, educational...", and there are other contents. Will someone tell me that Mrs. Program Director is a professional if she doesn't know the Law on her own establishment and now, of course, I will continue to study and culture again because it's my narrow profession with the fact that I don't think culture and education are just what is located in the ghetto, so on the shows of a specific and specialized type. The predecessor of the lady I quoted, the former programming director allowed something called "Golden jug", I don't know who remembers a hectolitre of spilled beer in that so-called "Golden jug." The drama series, the show that was absolutely, that is, a series that has been harassing us for weeks, at the lowest possible level ever shown in Croatia not to tell the former Yugoslavia when we watched any series from other centres. Is it a question of professionalism or something else and who will forbid me to ask a question about the professionality of the editors without accusing me of wanting to influence anyone in any way? Therefore, I would like to say that the professionalism of journalists, regardless of whether they are in the political programme or cultural programme, must rest on solid and well-founded premises for which one must answer, and no one is responsible, no responsibility, the criticisms were bad, the viewers were sending protests, please to whom we have worked, this is not the only example. I'll keep going now. I am afraid that today what is happening in this important media is going through "Golden Court", going through commercialization in this same newspaper text, Mr. Galic, whom I have known for a very long time, and very often we meet at concerts and theatre, says that he would very much like to have one... program in which is only classical music but that it is impossible to pay, therefore, he must make a balance in order not to have debts between fun and this other program. That balance, but in this balance there must be both measures and taste and education, I don't think those educations that were once closed in small forms on school television or school radio, which was excellent today may be outdated by their methods but I also think it's unacceptable to lose the education program completely, so we have to notice it blended into some other show than I think it's unacceptable that the music program that doesn't have great ratings, but it didn't measure anywhere in the world, and neither does it come down to two letters. I could talk for a long time about various shows that simply change the picture, change identity, change the knowledge of the average viewer, which is the average viewer. It's a cake made from a housewife, from a philosopher, from a child, from an old grandmother, it's an average. For everyone there should be something but in a completely different way, because if we go for the commercialization of TV Nova, RTL and that everything will not be called any future completely independent television, we will really have "Villa Marie" and what it's called together. So one gleam and one form that can exist but only by the way if there is another. I wonder why we always have to copy abroad by bad examples. Why don't we copy or send people to learn something about a BBC, learn how to do criminals, learn how to do documentary shows? Why? No, I don't. We bring Mexican directors who make us Croatian soap operas. I don't know why, whether there's no debt, maybe, or hiring unemployed actors, I don't know either. But I am sorry, I am simply sorry that Croatian television today does not give the right picture of the Croatian state which is...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27420	MPs, please, time's up, finish up.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27421	Who is in his history very, very long has a culture and I think that culture is completely neglected. I'd still talk about music production, but another occasion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27422	Yes, please. Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, respected representative Zlatko Kramarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27423	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, and Mr. President of the Parliament. I must really protest I call for article 213 you provide order in this assembly, in the hall, I have indeed been reported, and you have not really allowed me to correct, to replicate my colleague and I don't know how this is done because of you, like this, so that one doesn't leave one impression that you're also introducing a similarity here, so some of you are entitled to a replica and you're not giving others the right to a replica. And really at the end of my mind it wasn't that when I was talking about some moral, about the mental frame, first of all, and I never talked about height, I wasn't guilty, I even went down one down, there you put me up, so I'm a little higher than some others, but when I was talking about the mental part then I really just struggled not to introduce the spirit... back or the spirit of the engineers of these even controllers, either, who really need to have a monopoly over the same and that they think that they are just the owners of that truth. Nothing else, and you could have really made it possible for me without this breach of the Rules of Procedure. Thank you. ... Yeah, you should. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27424	Representative Kramarić, calling for a provision in Article 213 for the violation of the Rules of Procedure, if for all these years how many of you have failed to read it, and now you have had a Rules of Procedure before you and you have read it, this article 213 says: "The order of the session is provided by the President and for disturbing the order of the session can give the representative a firm measure." And that's your violation of the Rules of Procedure. I've been very closely following the argument as the official here and you're not and you're not falsely claiming that you've raised the tile. You are falsely saying that you have not raised it, I have not raised it to everyone and to everyone so far that I owe, when looking for a replica, a reply to a replica, a correction of an incorrect quote, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. I wouldn't make an exception for you. And why would I be denying you the answer to the line, why would I have the intention and the intention to perhaps hide from the public and from the Parliament the important words that you would conceal, which I might hide with it. You're not and don't insist on anything, first of all, it's not about hurting the Rules of Procedure that you're aware of, and secondly, don't try to make me lie and claim something that you know isn't true. There's no more Mr. Kramaric to discuss. Look at your Rules of Procedure again. Now we're going to correct incorrect allegations. First respected representative, Joseph Leco.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27425	Dear Representative Maja Martincevic, I would not like to enter herafinity program. It's really her right. But the finding that nothing has changed since 2000 is simply not true. A number of important things have changed for Croatia's radio-television, i.e. for public television. By the year 2000, I knew that television was doing business with a loss of 300 million kuna. The legal independence of television, independence of the Board for the selection of directors, editors of television and supervision of the Croatian Radio-Television Programme is then ensured. All these trends that are secured by law are positive and everyone here has even cited it in the debate. Thus, by taking individual views or examples, it does not change the trend for Croatian radio television to gradually and safely grow into public television.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27426	Thank you. Second correction by respected representative Marin Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27427	Incorrect statement by counterpart Martincevic, I quote: "The Croatian Democratic Community was totally insulated in the media and on Croatian television for the past four years I would like to note that, in the past four years, the Council of Croatian Television analysed the monthly presence of political parties on Croatian television and for the first time in Croatia happened precisely in the last four years that HDZ as the strongest opposition party was months, were more present than the parties in power. [[The intruders don't understand.]] The second is incorrect, however figuratively a colleague might have wanted to say it, her claim that the average Croatian viewer is "tort", and it is particularly incorrect that most journalists do not carry out their work professionally. I think it's three highly incorrect claims.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27428	Third correction, respected representative Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27429	I think it's a rude lie that, which my colleague said was an unfair representation of the government on television, the Government and the Parliament in relation to the opposition, especially when the opposition was power and the current rule of opposition. I don't think that's how it is, that there's no more significant visitation or any kind of initiative coming from the government that wasn't zealously transmitted on television. For example, I will only give you a recent example, when our prime minister was in Serbia-Montenegro, I think that the diaries and televisions were zealously reporting it, true, so you won't mind them not showing the gift of Prime Minister Sanader to the Yugoslav flag published at noon.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27430	Now we have a few replicas. Dear Representative Zlatko Kramarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27431	I give up, I give up the replica after that, after your pledoaje, I give up.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27432	This giving up has come to general approval. Dear Representative Nenad Stazic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27433	My colleague Maja Martincevic, you're making a mistake. You claim the opposition calls for these reports because it is satisfied with the Croatian Radio-Television programme. No, that's not the point. I don't have to be as happy as anyone else in the opposition, but I'm gonna be "Volterovski", just "Volterovski" defending the right of the editor to edit and when I'm not fully satisfied with that arrangement. But the further the debate moves on, and especially with your debate, the more it attacks on HRT's editorial policy. You're the first one to go directly to names. And you mention the names of two editors. You claim they can't do their job, they're unprofessional. So look at their level of professionalism can only underestimate the profession. And we here in Croatia have some kind of news society. Well, I guess it's up to them to say whether someone's doing a job professionally or not. Not on you or me. But I'm concerned about one third thing actually, so Mrs. Majska Martincevic, you voted on the Media Committee as well as Mrs. Katarina Fuček to accept these reports, the decision was unanimously taken. So what made you change your attitude now, if not for political reasons? The reasons for political pressure. That's what worries me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27434	Thank you. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Jagoda Maja Martinčević.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27435	First of all, you were misinformed, I wasn't on the board that day, I was sick. If it's necessary, I'll also file a medical report. Secondly, I take the right to criticise myself with the name and last name that you of the opposition rarely do, and so it was all the time you were in power. If we talked more about names and last names about professionality and expertise, I think we'd be better off in many segments of life. That's right. I think the results of the show I mentioned are, and I can also mention the results of not professional persons.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27436	Replica, a respected representative of Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27437	Well, I'd like to replicate the fact that it's important information, because it's been discussed by a colleague that it's important for whoever's saying it. So important information isn't because someone said it, but because there's a public interest in it. Therefore, at one point in the day, it can be much more important that a citizen said than the president of the parliamentary committee, the president of the parliament or the prime minister said. Both journalists and editors should probably manage these criteria and be managed when determining what should be in the media. In developed democratic states, citizens and the public are interested in what the opposition thinks of something, especially the government's proposal. So you have on public television in Europe that when the prime minister says something that the same set shows up and what the leader of the opposition means, which, of course, is not a very common case for us. Thus, we do not often hear what the leader of the opposition thinks about what the government is saying. But that's what the editors decide. I hold the right to editors and journalists to decide on the importance of information from the basis of how much the public is interested in it, not with the basis of who told it. And secondly, I think that, I don't know if it's really going to be so to take note of this report, but the reports are in the Rules of Procedure in Chapter D, where it's called the adoption of other acts of the Parliament, so that would be really a little odd to say that we've brought the report with the conclusion we're getting to know. Then perhaps all reports would be made of knowledge or knowledge, and we would not draw any other conclusions. So if we're bringing in an act, then there can't be a report being taken into consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27438	The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Jagoda Maja Martinčević.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27439	I agree with my colleague that sometimes the voices of small people, ordinary citizens, are far more important than politics, ruling or opposition. I also agree that it is very important to hear the voice of the opposition, but I think I wonder why that voice before 2000 did not also consider it because then the opposition had no right to vote, at least it did not have it to the extent to which it should have been represented, perhaps not evenly, but at least parliamentaryly. And as for the opposition today which is more accessible, I have said more subtle methods in the means of public information, and especially in the Dnevnik or other informative shows of Croatian television, this is going below the lines, because almost every procedure of this government is very subtlely commented negatively. So we can't talk about it the same way. I already said it here once, they measured the same for everyone, or we're all equal, but some think they're more equal. No, they're not.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27440	Thank you very much. Whether, on a proposal from a particular club or committee, the Parliament will accept, refuse, accept and comply with the Rules of Procedure and cannot be argued that, and I am obliged to give explanations in the process of passing laws and other decisions that certain discussions and proposals and conclusions may result in the receipt of knowledge, this is the whole time this Parliament is working. Honorable representative Lino Cervar.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27441	Mr. President... [[speaks out loud, doesn't understand]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27442	Agent Krapjan, don't report for a witness. What do you have to report for a witness? Here you go. I also say to the official that you gave the sign, that's all you have to say to me.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27443	Thank you, Mr. President, so Ms. Majska Martincevic, in her speech, has repeatedly emphasized "you from the opposition". You know, the opposition is not... the political structure in the Croatian Parliament, the opposition has both left and center and right, and the opposition has different views on these reports. The Croatian Party of Rights, unlike part of the opposition, will talk about it when I speak in my debate, will not glorify this report and will not cry to them, we will be very critical of these reports. So I'm asking you when you're talking about opposition, that you still have a distinction on at least this subject that we don't have a unique view of it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27444	Replica reply, respected Jagoda representative Maja Martincevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27445	I'd like to apologize to my colleague. You know, I'm an old journalist, but I'm a very young Parliamentarian. And I'll keep an eye on the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27446	Honorable representative Lino Cervar.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27447	Mr. President of the Parliament, Mr. Director, gentlemen of Television, ladies and gentlemen. I believe that today talking about censoring freedom of the media is unrealistic. Because it is known that free media cannot develop in a non-democratic country. It's something else that matters. As one journalist in the New List, Neven Shantic, noted well, today is one of the central issues of today's democracy, resisting the media from manipulating the public and politics or being manipulated by politics. Ladies and gentlemen, of course that's a very complex question. It is unquestionable that, today, moral integrity is based on public officials as well as journalists. Why? Because the system of ethical values is constant and does not allow compromises even if living circumstances change. Recently, a respected representative of Tonino Picula claimed that television is extremely important in America. And where isn't that? One prime minister of a developed democracy said, "Give me the television and I'll convince you in 10 days that Romania is the richest country in gold." Today, whether we like it or not, the media are promoters of truth and respect for dignity and personality. Often, in electronic and printed media, it comes out with big headlines that often mutilate a human being. TV could talk whatever we want is the most dangerous medium. It's been discussed recently at the held stands about... Because it works all over your house, it affects our emotions, our pace of life, our behavior, our life, our political values, our culture, our happiness and the misfortune of man. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Why ethics? Why the set of standards, principles or rules? Because ethical journalism can only be completely free journalism. If there were little more to be done among the audience and the people, the question would be whether the media could be trusted at all. If you want to, he's always been a good part of media journalists in this country, and he's normally imposed and determined someone else. Government, state, political parties, political options or close media and other tycoons. Of course, that is not good because man has the right to be truthful, timely, and accurate. I have to admit and pay tribute for some positive shifts in the Croatian Radio Television software concept. And that's something to be respected. It's about diversity. There's more dialogue now than in the past, a monologue. That's very important. And I congratulate you on that. Although there is a so-called. software copying shows from other more famous television houses, which is not bad, but it would certainly not be a waste to find our Croatian, original ideas that will interest TV and radio audiences and listeners. Waters in the media were recently shaken because a statement by the president of the Croatian Parliament was heard, and the statement was welcomed by the knife and took on the scales of the elemental disaster. I mean, and I'm holding it unwarranted because it wasn't an attack on media freedom. And here I would like to remind gentlemen, of Resolution 1141 on Parliaments and the media of Europe, which, under the conclusion of the 11th regular number of national parliaments, calls on all national parliaments to ensure that the greater public of Parliament's work, even individual approvals, as a political issue of first-rate importance directly depends on the action of democracy. However, the problem of more effective co-operation between parliament and the media information service is being addressed in order to better dialogue with citizens. This is about faster communication with the media, or journalists to journalists, because unlike the Government, Parliament is about its parliamentary procedure, for example. can't react as spotlessly to an event as the government can. That's the difference. This is why Parliament needs to monitor the reality of global communication, and this means that new information technologies are being considered. Whether it is the opening of independent TV channels that will monitor Parliament's work as it is done in several countries should be seen, of course, costing it all. One of the main recommendations of the OSCE and the Committee on Mass Media Europe because the amendments to the law on Croatia are radio television. And I would like to draw attention to ladies and gentlemen that without respecting European criteria, that is to say, the harmonisation of the European Standards Act cannot be talked about free, independent, plural, unsuitable, objective and independent, electronic and printed media. Of course, we are not on the right track if a journalist in one of our prestigious lists starts an interview with Mr. Peter Semneby, the head of the OSCE show with the following question, quote: “The new Law on Croatian Radio Television has not yet been adopted and in recent times strong pressures by state officials on the leadership of Croatian radio television as public television have been expressed. How you comment, sir, on the freedom of the media.” I believe that this is a classic example of illegal suggestion, i.e. a suggested response to a man who thus does not have the right to any other opinion other than naturally suggested negative opinion. Furthermore, the Vice-President of the Committee on Mass Media of the Council of Europe, Mr. Karol Jakobic, President of the Committee on Information, Information and Media, Vice-President of our strongest opposition party, Ms. Željka Antunović, who says: “Mr. Karol Jakubovic respects your expertise but I deny you the right to worry about the sovereignty of Croatia, I oppose the monitoring of the international community.” So it is clear that the Programme Council is focused, in the epicenter of interest because it not only represents and protects the public's interests through the exercise of control over Croatia's broadcasting but also controls and concerns, looks at the implementation of the programming principles and obligations established by the Law on Croatian Radio and Croatian Radio programmes, and appoints leaders. To judge by the Council's report I must say that it was their biggest job, therefore, taking care of the leaders as well, I respect it but on each side of the otherwise bad report I must say it as the main criterion of the Council's success is the number of held Council meetings, which is actually unacceptable. Because as far as I know, quantity could never replace quality and I know you were in an ancient seal. Same thing. I would point to a phenomenon that came home on our television, on the TV Diaries as a center as I said before, where Mr. Mršić might have a little bit of support, as a central information show which I find unacceptable, and I really haven't seen anywhere and I've worked around Europe for 13 years. I remind myself of the Law on Programmes on Croatian Radio Television, which in Article 7 decidedly states that no individual views or interests of individual political parties should be represented and that a level playing field of different sources must be allowed. On our Central Journal, ladies and gentlemen, a journalist reads the news, comments on the news or suggests an answer, it is unacceptable in all forms of journalistic expression. Whether it was news, whether it was a report, whether it was a comment, whether it was the topic of the day, it was the Law, must be allowed to the viewer and offer the option and the authorities immediately and the opposition immediately. Whether it was the center, whether it was the left, whether it was the right and whether it was the viewer who would then identify itself, it was democracy, it was pluralism. Otherwise, if it's not there, if it's not there, then of course we can't talk about pluralism anymore. For example, one Lily Gruber, that was one of the strongest journalists... We know she's gone now. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But how can she give the news so that she comments on a certain... Whether it was sophisticated or not, I'm not interested in it at all. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But she's leaving TV for it. Yeah, she'd leave right now. That's inadmissible. So, what was I gonna say?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27448	Please conclude, conclude.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27449	I'm finishing up now, Mr. President. Every news report or report is deprived of feelings of personal attitude. And finally, ladies and gentlemen, let me conclude: if we know that Croatian broadcasting is strongly protected by the international position of Croatia as it is, and should be...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27450	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27451	I do not understand why it hesitates to standardise the recommendations of European experts on the new law of Croatian broadcasting.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27452	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27453	Of course it's a harmonised law, a generally accepted law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27454	Correction of the incorrect allegation by the respected representative Nikola Vuljanić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27455	Thank you, Mr. President. A colleague said loudly that television is the most dangerous medium, which, of course, means that all media are dangerous, and television because of its influence, because it works throughout the house is the most dangerous. Such an attitude is not only not true, it is dangerous.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27456	A colleague, Cervar, quoted the conclusions and spoke with a symposium of science. And the esteemed representative of Nikola, William Herman.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27457	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, in this truly inspired speech, in a speech that prompted not only reflections but to one honest one, I would say human and civil excitement. But only with three dots. It is an incorrect allegation, an incorrect allegation that the new technology TV channel specializes in parliamentary sessions and in the life and work of the Croatian Parliament. It's not new technology. The exact quote is a new technology would in this case be the internet. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27458	Replica, Honorable Representative Antun Vujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27459	Well, I'm still going to give a replica to keep some confusion from being dragged to, for the first time, by Mr. Cervar. We have a new law, Mr. Cervaru, that's this law we have. And the only comment that is under discussion is exactly where we have protected this possibility of talking about it through reports at the Croatian Parliament and where we have reached an independent council. Therefore, do not call for a new law unless you are calling for exactly that, which is a very difficult-to-election liquid, which is also positively assessed in the overall positive assessment of the media legislation that Croatia has adopted. So don't argue with things that we're not coming back, I mean, where we're from, to a place that we've long gone from.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27460	The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Lino Cervar.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27461	Yeah, well... that, as a member of the Committee for, as I, of course, for information, information and media, you are probably pleased that I answered the debate and I think you support my debate. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And what you said about the relationship, it wasn't exactly my accent that I insisted. I said we miss each other, that no one can impose one opinion on me in one democracy. You have to give me a choice viewer chance. You have to offer me an option. I'll, I'll evaluate, you won't judge me. It's the key to my entire debate. Okay? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27462	Thank you. Dear representative Jelena Pavicic-Vukicevic. She's gone. He's losing his word. Dear representative Ivanka Roksandić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27463	Thank you, Mr. President, gentlemen of the Croatian Radio and Television. Many things have been said today in this debate, but this is also an important topic for our viewers and the public, as well as for Croatian Radio and Television. I'm going to say something about the very report on the work of the HRT Council as well as how it was conceived. In the first part of the report, all details of the Council's appointment as well as the tasks that the Council has and which it has accomplished in its work and of the 10 sessions have been addressed to technical, mainly technical issues of document adoption, human resources problems, and very little to the programme's beliefs. The rest of the report refers to the annual report on the implementation of the HRT Business Tasks Programme, from which the report on programmes and broadcasting shows that, compared to 2002, the broadcast programmes were increased in all parts of the programme from the 1st to the 3rd programme, although we lost that third one last year. The report also lists all emissions from different programmes, and certainly the information programme is one of those that gathers the audience's greatest attention and that it is somehow the most important for them. We can say even though this is said in the report that the Central Journal and the most significant informational emissions. Certainly when the clocks start to roar, as we say, and time measures before and after the Diaries, then we can know how important this show is to the public and why it is very important to be a show in which more positive examples will be given through the information programme, while avoiding sensations, displays of violence and other negative phenomena, and it is necessary to focus more on exactly what I have heard today, this life needs of citizens because it is indeed the only television they are paying and therefore the responsibility towards citizens is far greater. I can't help but mention the local information level in my discussion. Although there are information emissions that monitor events at local, regional levels at least as far as information from my counties is concerned, I come from Sisak-Moslavina County, very few. I am following this programme precisely to somehow monitor these developments in the county, news that citizens of my county can get from Croatian television. Only for example, although it does not apply to this period, and I will refer to the event as well as my colleague Trakostanec said about an event related to the INA's stay when it was being resolved and the fate of the Sisak refinery is still being solved. It is a very important event for all citizens of Sisak and the surrounding area, and you know what we saw in the news, and especially why I note in the regional part of the programme where we should have seen far more than this issue addressed to the President of the Administration. Mr. Dragicevic will the gas pick up tomorrow? It was a report on the entire INA administration's stay when the fate of a Croatian refinery was resolved. When we talk about the show "Croatia Today" that needs to be talked about and has to talk about county events, I will also refer to my colleague Mršić who pointed out this, then I don't know how much news comes from the area or from Croatian television correspondence and whether the news agrees with some rules or how much the correspondent is elected, imposes on the editor-in-chief. I guess it's because the news that comes and presents itself, I say again from my county are exactly the same category. And whether people who work in these regional, local correspondence centres are qualified journalists or are very often taken along the way by people who won't hurt them, have certain qualifications, but are not journalists professionals. So often this news is very unprofessional and transmitted. Most often, no positive developments are recorded in individual counties, and you often have regions when you follow Croatia today, the feeling that you are reading the black chronicle. I know that by selling the third programme we have lost a significant programme that has just followed and covered local topics but I think that on these two programmes Croatian television is because the public and the one that needs to be in the service of citizenship has to make up for it. And one more thing, though I know this isn't about you, but in some ways it is, I'm going to say something about the work of the transmitter and the connections that work especially I know. And they don't work on the Croatian television system. BUT I must say that as a radio and television, it would be very important for you to see our programs when I talk to ours, then I think of Croatian radio television along the Croatian border towards Bosnia and Herzegovina. Especially in Pounj. Lately, this signal is something stronger, better heard Croatian radio is better seen Croatian TV. But you know the citizens of the region often learn news from Croatia you will not believe from television in the Serbian province across BiH, from Banja Luka or from those radio stations that operate. And you can think of everything along the border of BiH. Most of the time they hear our program very badly. I know this isn't yours if it's not in your jurisdiction, but I'm asking you for our program to change that too. And in the end, I'm going to say something that's a little bit harder on me maybe because I'm getting out of education and education, especially the educational program. The educational program, and we've heard today from several of my colleagues, has come to a very low level. I'm going to tell you about an event that happened four years ago in our schools. People who collect the subscription of Croatian radio television, enter schools and do a survey in school administration on the issue, how many TVs do you have in school? So it could have been 10, 15, most schools have a really large number of TVs. And after that, a month later, a TV subscription arrived. And schools don't watch very much TV. Namely, the TV program and children's programme are missing exactly the topics that would follow education. The missing Croatian history, national practices of Croatia, so some groundbreaking topics, scientific achievements of young people, summer schools of young scientists, eco programme for children of popular topics. So topics that would follow the education system. Then this progarm would be more visible, and in schools, so I think we should pay that subscription by the number of TV receivers. I hope that the future will improve the concept of the educational programme, because it is indeed an important one important programme, no matter how many people think, because it goes in the morning term that it is less important. It is also how important for our youth it can also be and how much help in the education system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27464	Thank you very much. We have a replica of Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar here.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27465	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Having listened to this debate and a colleague has now been going on the same occasion in the part of her debate, of 152 MPs, it seems to me that there are 100 candidates in this Chamber for the editor of the central news journal on television. Just as many candidates for the Croatian Journalist Society's honor court. Somehow, it feels like we'd all be editors of the Dnevniks, and I suggest to the board and the programming board that in the future, when it comes to the order, you don't call the public tender, but the internal one in the Assembly will be easier to reach the new editors of the Dnevnik. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27466	Thank you very much. The reply to Mrs Ivanka Roksandić's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27467	So I'd just tell my colleague Lesar I had no intention of being even the new editor of Croatian Radio-Television I don't have a profession for it. I don't think that's what I'm gonna do. The one I had in mind on behalf of people who pay for Croatian radio television on behalf of those who spoke about the educational program of my colleague Lesar and you are often fighting for some of the rights of educational workers, not to pay that subscription, on behalf of those who do not pay a subscription by the number of televisions, in primary and secondary schools. To say something about the concept of the program, I think that's what we have as representatives and how right we are.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27468	Thank you very much. It's Mr. Representative Ivo Lonchar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27469	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. First of all, I must say, I am sorry that there is not a double colleague of mine, Nenad Stazic, here, that I fully agree with him, that politics must not be involved in journalism, nor in editorial policy. I felt it on my skin and I wouldn't wish it to anyone alive what it means when politics starts to get mixed up in journalism. A journalist has the right to make a mistake like everyone else but he should leave the press alone to work on his conscience. Since many colleagues today missed what we were talking about, I will now read the subject of our conversation. Therefore, under point 11.a) of the HRT Council Working Report and on the implementation of the programme principles and obligations laid down by the Law on Croatian Radio and Croatian Television Programmes for the period from 14 November 2003 to 30 June 2004. (b) Report by the Directorate on HRTA's operations in 2003, and under c) Report of independent audits of the financial reports carried out for 2003. So that's what we were supposed to talk about, those who spoke may not have even seen the agenda. When I talk about these things first, we have to ask ourselves, "What is a journalist?" The journalist is a public conscience, a journalist is a witness to the public, is that our case today? What is public television, it should be the public service of all its citizens. Is Croatian Radio-Television the public service of all its citizens. I remember my great idol and role model and then I won his prize as journalist of the year, which is the highest journalist's award in the profession of the late Tenger told me. Brother, when you write the first text by order, you're no longer a journalist. There are a lot of journalists I do not want to generalise, but there are many journalists on Croatian television who have trampled this sacred principle of the great Wessel Tenzera The question of what is today's Croatian TV programme and how HRT operates. When I ask this question, then you have to say the following. On HRTU there are many honorable, honest and moral people of excellent professionals, where these people are and what they do. Unfortunately, these people are generally nowhere to be suppressed or self-restrained or self-retired because they cannot afford to participate in laurds and dishonest affairs. But as it is known, there is always something that is not quite right to say in one Parliament, so I will not say it, and I suppose you understand what I'm talking about. The source of all the halls on Croatian television and, in particular, on HRT, and especially on Croatian television is the HRT Programme Council. More than two-thirds of the Programme Council, which has huge powers, are in conflict of interest. We have a few publishers there. In that council we have several actors, in that council we have several business people. In that council we also have a representative of theatre houses. Former Croatian Prime Minister Ivica Racan, like almost all members of his government, used almost every opportunity to say that they were democratic government and that they came in a democratic way. That's right. The democratic government has changed the HRT Act twice in a year. Both laws are disastrous and tragic for radio and television journalism. These laws, watching some shows, the class of exceptions, made the HTV a palace television with notes of Byzantine mentality. While these laws were being done, we brought some yakubovics here who know about radio and television about how much I know about surgery, and I have no idea about surgery. The question now arises whether the current power is democratic, whether it has come to power by democratic means and whether it has the right to change this disastrous law that has made it possible for one interested group that survives all authorities and all regimes to rule over 15, 20, 25, 30 and some for several years. And who, as such, are rich and destroying HRT. I have no idea how to defend this power, but I'm sorry it's so incompetent. Who is this Programme Council representing today? Are they representatives of the public? If they are, let them tell the public what it is. Let me remind you. This Council was founded with many pangs of labor, to remind those who do not know it, at the last session, as the final item of the agenda, a few hours before the disbandment of the previous assembly. Doesn't that tell you enough about the law and how the Programme Council was elected? What's HRT today? Is she public or commercial? According to today’s Croatian television programme, someone sent little into the electronic media can conclude the following. Croatian TV is today the strongest commercial television in Croatia, well organized and run by a group of people with great organized and skillful leadership. And where's that public television? Oh, my God. Is she the public service of all of her citizens today? And to remind you of my colleagues, I founded Forum 21 in 97 with my dear friend Mirko Galic, and I wanted that television to serve its citizens. Who does she serve today? Is there any sacred television like any public television in the world? And that's state and national interest. My unfathomable dream since Forum 21 is that Croatian television is becoming public, but unfortunately it is not. It is a legal obligation for HTV 10% to broadcast programmes from external production, i.e. a programme produced in so-called independent production companies. I'll give you a few examples. We have two shows, please nice. One show is advertised throughout the week, in these ads we have sponsors of this show, where the money rises, because we who know something about television know how to do it, and then Croatian TV leaders say that they get some crumbs on the phones too. Well, it's human and moral and professional prostitution. On the other hand, we have a show that goes directly, and it advertises the performances of escalating stars before their appearances. These people who are now so-called external production, they spent the previous century on Croatian television as employees. They went to a so-called foreign production and they make more money today than Larry King at CNN. For example, how to charge for example. lighting, how to charge the counter, transmitters, scene and so on. in the case of these direct programme shows. I know something about it. Those people were there. I have information that the leadership of the house is now dissatisfied with the people who are doing these shows. Will these people now return to Croatian television and be employees again? Many have left Croatian television, spit on Croatian television. They were on commercial TV and returned to Croatian television again. I ask who hired them, why and under what conditions? You see, we had on one show, which was really beneath every review at the 6th month when she showed up. This show usually goes live, but it was then recorded, we brought Severina and she showed us there that the Croatian nation was crying over her, because her artistic impression of her porn film was bad. Here, and that's the TV that's supposed to be public, and it's commercial and it's done on commercial television. In many TV shows, once again honoring exceptions, today it promotes the journalism of the late Marine Christmas who founded it in the 1990s. We know what Marinko Bozic's journalism was like. Spit. And now I'm asking. And I want the following questions to be answered in accordance with the Rules of Procedure: Was there a public tender for external production shows, to emphasize the external production is when to bring the tape on TV and put it only inside the machine and then broadcast? So was it a public tender for external production shows and how did these shows get former HTV employees? If their projects fail, will they return to Croatian television again? Who once again hired those who left the house at their own time to spit on it in the worst possible way? They did so on their return. If they're good, why didn't they stay on commercial TV? Now we have a market and three TVs at national level. How much externally, this is very important and therefore I am sorry that no one has talked about the agenda point today, which is on the agenda, how much of the external marketing programme is on HRT, and how much money is on the percentage of marketing houses outside Croatian television? That's very important. How many new employees have been admitted, in which places, which is their classification structure.? Then how many people have retired, under what conditions, how many have gone with the severance, and are there any extra employees on HRT, and if there are, as many and in which places? How's HRT's fleet? How many HRTs use external car-house services and how many auto-houses Please, I only have one more sentence. [[Employee: Representative, finish, because it's past time]] Here, you gave it to others, so give it to me. This is a very important question. So, how many HRTs use outside car-house services and how many car-houses make it a month with their cars on HRT? Do they go to the field like HRT vehicles? How many programmes are produced per month, and in particular how many of these programmes are produced by individual journalists and editors from individual offices Thank you very much. [[We're gonna have to finish, here.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27470	Thank you very much. Now it's Mrs. Nevenka Majdenic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27471	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen. The undisputed fact is that on Croatian radio television, a huge job is being done during the year. This is also visible reports that thoroughly record the functioning of the entire system. I would like to congratulate all the employees who, each in their field of action, do a significant job in the way of top professionals. However, I would refer to a whole series of gaps in the information programme of television, which, according to HTV leaders, are not a matter of home policy, but of individual failures. In recent months, a number of examples have been presented in the media when Croatian television has not done its job in the opinion of many, it has done it correctly and professionally, as well as a case to which the Associations of Volunteers of the Homeland War bear witness. I will read part of this letter of the Association of Volunteers of the National Protection of the Homeland War sent to me as a member of the Committee on Information, Information and Media. They say: On Saturday, September 11, 2004, Zagreb began at 10:30 at the Zagreb Fair Congress Hall, the Ceremony Academy was held on the 13th anniversary of the blockades and the conquest of military and military facilities, so-called Yugoslav People's Army in Croatia. It was organized by the Association of Volunteers of the National Protection of the Homeland War, the patron of the Academy of Ceremony and the personal representative of the Prime Minister Dr. Ivo Sanader was Mrs. Jadranka Kosor, Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia and Minister of the Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity. Over 750 volunteers and military commanders of the 1991 block action were present. For the first time in 13 years, wartime commanders from all over Croatia gathered. To wartime commanders, 150 of them were assigned a knight's charter on September 13th 1991 for volunteering, unselfishness, determination and courage, five and posthumously. Unfortunately, Croatian television did not consider the event important for its arrival, so it is not the first time that the Croatian public has reported it. The Croatian defenders are systematically marginalized, everything they have done positively, every praise worth meeting or project. They're unhappy. We are dissatisfied with the long-standing objectivity of Croatian television, its relationship with the Homeland War and the defence population, the full ignoring of our press conferences and statements of defence associations especially in information shows. Dear colleagues and colleagues, this is part of a memo sent to me by the Association of People's Protection of Homeland War with one request, to hold a debate in the Assembly on the objectivity and timeliness of public information on events and phenomena in the Republic of Croatia and abroad. It is saddened that respected colleagues and colleagues, as a result of such mistakes, are cited claims about the lack of education and unprofessionalism of editors and journalists. Unfortunately, that's true, but I wonder why such mistakes happen often, so they repeat themselves, and the human movements are lagging behind. When such cases happen in sequence, and nothing changes, then it becomes a policy of the house, then it becomes a bad human policy and a false picture is created in public. Namely, when an editor, journalist or head of Croatian Radio Television shows obvious errors, a high inaccessible wall on the claim that it is about the persecutions of journalists or editors to seek political cleanups, etc. So any attempt to point out mistakes is automatically declared by political pressures, seeking protection from the public. That's just not true. We do not require clean-ups on the principle of political membership but on the principle of professional education and ability, we require professionalism in approach, evaluation of topics and events and a serious approach to processing and showing in public. Public television has quite clearly defined tasks and differs significantly from other private commercial televisions. Nothing less will Croatian television be interesting to advertisers if it does not seek sensational access to the programme. Unfortunately, that is the plan that shows the inadequacy of individual editors in doing the jobs they should be doing. Instead of a professional approach, it seeks sensationalism and as a result of such an approach distorting reality. It is a false claim that only bad examples interest viewers or listeners, that they are interested only in human sufferings and accidents. That's not true. People are already tired of tragedy. Of course, they are an integral part of life, but they are beautiful, positive events on screens a little bit primarily because part of editors and journalists do not seem attractive and sensational enough, and they persistently place the thesis that such an approach is a reflection of the interests of viewers or listeners. I advocate such a staff policy that will affirm educated, highly trained journalists and editors as opposed to journalists and editors who are not up to the difficult tasks of the job, and for their non-professional procedures in the failure of editing is a specific approach, mainly distorted in the flow of events into the information programme. Apology is found in freedom of opinion and press freedom. I do not advocate limiting anyone's freedom, I advocate that listeners and viewers receive a quality program and informative, artistic, sports and other, created on the principles of top professionalism. For this, solid material and technical preconditions were created. If this is not about these principles, then we are seriously limiting the freedom of viewers and listeners to receive quick and accurate information and ultimately the picture of everyday life. Unfortunately, I do not think that the leadership of Croatian television has particularly succeeded in the plan to lead a good staff policy. The first came journalists and editors who seek sensationalism to miss the basic rules of journalistic and editorial work. Every public apparition of the facts is under pressure on the profession, pressure on the person, and any debate on editorial policy is rejected. Unfortunately, it is rare that all editorial policy is in the rush for sensation, then there is no professional and systematic work to collect and process information in accordance with the rules of the profession. The claims that no one has the right to interfere with editorial policy are exactly as accurate as that editorial policy exists. When she's gone, then everyone has the right to point out that. Why shouldn't politicians do that? This Assembly is also responsible for how and how the citizens of the Republic of Croatia are informed through public media, especially if there is no money for their actions. And there is one more thing I would like to say about the financial business of Croatian Radio Television for 2003. I think it should be pointed out by independent audits that the claims made by the customers of state institutions and interest claims on sales bonds have been made, thus reducing the cost of profit and loss for 10 million kuna for the same amount, and thus 10 million kuna for the same amount. The independent review also identified weaknesses and irregularities in the implementation of the Public Procurement Act and what is interesting, which were also established in previous audit reports and which were repeated in 2003. I'll just list some of the irregularities. That a number of suppliers were supplied with goods and services during 2003 did not complete the procurement contract. Certain goods and services were supplied during 2003 and from suppliers not selected in the public tendering process and with which contracts were not concluded. During 2003, both goods and services which were not the subject of the offer at the time of the selection were purchased from the selected bidders in the public tender procedure. And there's still these irregularities, but I'd say something about investment. As far as the value of Croatian broadcasting real estate is concerned, I think it is inadmissible to show for historical values, but it is necessary to assess and show for market values. Furthermore, it is also unacceptable for the investment plan to be achieved with 47.8%, which points to the conclusion of reduced investment activities over the longer term.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27472	Thank you very much. Here, it's just finished, thank you. We have two replicas. Mr. Sima Luchin's first representative, please come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27473	Thank you very much. I have to admit, I had a hard time not picking up. My colleague has made several assessments that I think, because of all of us here, we should be commented on in a certain way. First, a colleague says, we're not for political cleaning, we're for cleaning up on some kind of human criteria and professionality. I have to say that I personally am not for any cleaning women, and I think that today as all the forms of the market and the media market develop, in fact, that the market and the insistence and struggle for theatre will actually be the basic criterion of human policy in all media houses and then on television. The second thing, they cannot accept the thesis that politicians can also assess someone's ability, quality, whether it's a journalist or an editor, for a simple reason, because a politician has a certain interest in the public. And every politician will say that that journalist who doesn't propagate and promotes his views that he's a bad journalist and that he's a bad editor. And the other one will say something else. And I think when we talk about these things, we should actually keep that grade and grade of that type. At the same time, we all give these grades, and at the same time we say that we are for the independence of television, independent journalism and independent television. We simply have to be clear, if we are for independent journalism and freedom of the media then we can't be for any cleaners and we can't give politicians the freedom to evaluate the quality of someone's journalistic work.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27474	Replication response, Ms. Nevenka Majdenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27475	Well, I'd just like to say for a little while that it's normal that you're not into cleaners when you did it during your term and put your people on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27476	Thank you very much. We have another replica, Mr. Representative Zlatko Kramarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27477	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Here, colleague Lucin actually took most of mine, reacting to what I did. I mean, I'd really be interested in someone explaining it to me, when politics ends, and professionalism begins, and who gives himself the right to decide when it comes to political cleaning and professional cleaning. Otherwise, that's why we've been talking about this and the film news and we've really tried to appeal to kick this guy out of our political discourse for days, but unfortunately it's still there, as I say, and some of the debates as they're being led, I'm really creeping out and I'm afraid that someone's reforming course, out of desire for an independent public television, that it's just a beautiful story. Still, that some give themselves the right to determine exactly that very suspicious line that actually always exists every time we involve our interest inside. And indeed, we would have to suspend that political influence when we talk about things like this, because I'm saying, I'm afraid that then we're really opening Pandora's box and then we're going to have a war against everyone, and the situation that I say is going to go back to 70, 80, and a good part of the 90s. Which I'm not saying is that even after January 3, 2000, everything was great. But right then and then there were some who were really struggling and wouldn't allow just any political intervention. I think it's for the sake of correctness and for all of those discussions that were also being held here and recorded in our phonograms, I have the right to say it.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27478	Thank you very much. Replication response, Ms. Nevenka Majdenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27479	Well, I'd just like to say that you don't have to creep out. We've been creeping around for a long time, so we're still alive.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27480	I didn't even hear what it was. Thank you very much. It's 13 and 28, now they'd interrupt the session, continue at 15 o'clock. The first is Krunoslav Markovović and then Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27481	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs will continue the debate. It is up to the honourable representative Krunoslav Markovnović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27482	Mr. President, gentlemen of television, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Croatian radio TV has always been big, big, expensive, but it has been the only source of entertainment and information for many people. Among many employees there are many excellent professionals, especially in the documentary programme. With pleasure we have followed the way of cameras all over the country, Europe and the world. It may also satisfy the school program, I really don't know because I don't have a chance to watch, and talking to the educators is so divided that he's too little and too much and like this, and I'm not going to comment on it. The entertainment program is usually the least fun. It's a well-managed sports program, but it's more suitable television with three programs, so it's too prominent now. In fact, as interesting as sports events are, it's really hard and boring to listen to comments, stories about it, so even these fun sports events, I usually talk to my colleagues, we move and wait for them to finish. More attention should be paid to the selection of films and a series of inappropriate young people. And while the performance of adult films is respected in the late hours of reruns are mostly in the afternoons, not only on your television, but also on other televisions. And so our youngest watch such movies, our series and home movies also, which usually have order of violence, order of sex, order of rats, order of perversions in the most exclusive terms, and children who are often alone at home, that's certainly more interesting than cartoons, because at least there are more convincing things happening. The culture on Croatian radio-television loses a bit of the battle with yellow, so the desire for commercialization is seen forgetting that the subscription serves primarily for cultural, educational, national and religious education. A particular problem is the information programme, without touching the authorship and independence of journalists and laymen notice the fans' passions of some journalists towards certain political options and proclivities of manipulation. The most visible manipulations are expressed in a description of political events where the goal is to create a negativeistic environment, while giving the "attack team" quite a minute, rounded quotes, biased comments and announcements, and the defence can count on unwittingly selected words derived from the context. Well sometimes you get the feeling that the question is one question and the answer is derived from somewhere else, so actually the listener is not clear who asks, who answers what is very easy to install. The classic example is orchestrated attacks on the current ministers, so even in open forum shows, careful choice of guests create preconditions, we could say about the lynch. The characteristic example is "Latinica", which is more perfided than the former SDP spokesman. A report from the Parliament also shows cheerleader passions, but the ratings are low, as we hear it, so I guess it's also too small. The press station has protected itself with an untouchable halo, so every mention of their perfidious cheerleading offices is sacrilegious. In previous exhibitors, here from colleagues from the SDP we heard only praises about Croatian radio television, which is normal because before each election, Croatia's radio-television is the best logistics, so this is more of a gratitude than a description of the work or not to God of criticism. For example, viewers said in Stankovic's poll that they didn't trust the media, I don't know 75, 80% were, and that opinion says they can't manipulate the people. Here's to congratulating the objectivity of some of the journalists who have maintained the criteria of independent journalism. Mentioning their names can only harm them, so I'll keep it quiet. Even on the first radio program, there is nothing better, a better situation, to follow the very report from the Parliament. In fact, for a while, the Parliament lasted until this session until 10 o'clock, so when we went home, we listened, so we saw that, for example, for 15 minutes, we heard one speaker and again a few certain or I say from the context of the unsuspecting answers, which is once again evidence of manipulation. A special chapter in the information programme is the selection of news, as a rule, of disasters from the world, and there is almost no difference between reports, such reports and necrophilia. Catastrophes with breakfast, lunch and dinner, blood and body parts are full of screens, and the bigger the screen, I guess, the more bloody, so let people enjoy it. One event from a few days ago, here is the team of Croatian Radio and Television arriving in my municipality, the Municipality of Saint Sunday, amazing things happen, namely the expansion of the cemetery and is the first exhumation, so they are announced that some unrest and so on. They film an old grave, a new grave, remains of the deceased 28 years ago, the camera stalls, so I speak the first and second TV programs, right, the camera drags deep into the grave, filming the crying relatives, never stop being aggressive to the requests gathered. So, the cemetery report on the Holy Sunday shows itself on both programmes although it may be the only cemetery in Croatia that has a building permit, but God dear sees the expertise, the reporter wonders if he has a location permit, construction has but may not have a location. So we know that the location is a prerequisite for construction, so you can see that. Okay, and so much for necrophilia. Pressure, disaster and painful choice of negativity on the average viewer resembles an increasing number of pages of "Black Chronicle" in the daily pages, so why would television be lagging behind. What he wants to tell the viewers, you feel bad, your environment is bad, the world is bad, and the government is bad, listen to us, follow our mind, our worldview, let go of our manipulations, we editorial gods are the strongest, the smartest, and we can only lead you to a brighter future. One commercial television caught strength and resolved the editor who was obsessed with being "the whip of God". I don't think Mr. Galic here has the power or the will or the will. Because of everything I said, I don't think Croatian radio television is independent television, independent radio. The state of balance in the house is a pretty foreign term. It lacks objectivity, good taste, less and less cultural and educational programs. She's not even funny. He loses a step with commercial television, especially in information and authorial shows. We need to take a look at a new show of a competitive television show, so let's call it that, and we'll see how new it is, and we'll see how old it is here. The Croatian radio-television area is huge because incomes are regular and plentiful and incomes are the main occupation of commercial televisions. Namely, they do everything to get their income. No new ideas, many shows are a copy of emissions from totalitarian systems in the '70s and '80s, almost as if you've turned on, only by fear is the newer program. The perception of viewers is changing significantly faster than the Croatian radio-television approach. All the polls are talking about it. Report written on a routine majority, we must say the answer, most respond to the sad state of today's Croatian Radio Television. There's not much written, and there's much hidden. The report can't be any different. Spranca is most likely in computer memory and characters are the same. But the MPs have changed so they don't even consider the laik motive of Croatian radio-television, who stoned you, you camera him and commentary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27483	Thank you. Replica, respected representative Marin Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27484	My colleague Markovinović is in his presentation, it seems to me that he tried to divide this hall into two parts relative to the material we received and compared to Croatian Radio-Television. I think it's wrong, that it's a distortion of what I'm saying because of those who just now got involved in this TV broadcast. It is not that the SDP or the opposition, the opposition is as diverse as Djapic said, when both Croatian television and many times they heard from here and criticism, but indeed never the SDP's representative was the director of Croatian television. For 10 years, Pantovchak decided what would happen on Prisavlje. And that's changed, and I think that's good. I think even most of you agree that's good. Only after this kind of speech, I guess it's a fear of telling them. Because you said, de facto that Croatian television manipulates the Croatian public. That you said that she, that citizens have nothing, but to surrender to the manipulations of Croatian television. I think those are hard words. I purposely raised this replica so that you can say it, you can say it again, you can say something else. But I really think that this is the way to put pressure on the press, it's the fear in them, what if this is what we're doing, if what we're doing is so scary in the eyes of those who are ruling, how are we supposed to act like we're normal to them? Especially when it's compared to some times that weren't that long ago. You can go back 50 years, so it'll be even worse than 25 years ago. But we're really talking from these 10, 14 years. It's just that this is really how it turns out that politicians spit on the press profession, and we can't afford it ourselves.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27485	Thank you. Reply to the replica, respected representative Krunoslav Markovinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27486	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, here's my colleague Jurjevic, I didn't mention it at all, so it's absolutely incorrect that I mentioned that people should give themselves up. In fact, I said that by polling people, they said they didn't trust the media, and that's what's wrong. The poll Mr. Stankovic conducted, in which he usually swears, at least you all swear to the polls. The poll's good, only the one that looks like it. Therefore, this is not also a lynch journalist. There's a lot of journalists out there that we can praise and their inexplicability can be seen, their shows are happily watched. But I've described the manipulations very closely. I can give you the text later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27487	Thank you. Dear Representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27488	Mr. President, the honored representatives of Croatian Radio and Television, colleagues and colleagues. It's a huge power of the media, it's the best talking about Marx Weber. The media can create a lie from the truth, and they can create the truth from the truth. The media have enormous power they can shape, influence public opinion and therefore, I say so much to begin with, because today we are talking about the Croatian Radio-Television report, meaning the most powerful media in Croatia. And that is why we are all seeking and would like to, I hope that Croatian Radio-Television is a public medium, an objective medium, a professional medium. In further discussion, I'll dismember the pieces. Namely, because I think the difference between Croatian Radio and Croatian Television is important. Croatian worked in this part especially in this part of the information programme, so there are public media, and educational media and educational media. Croatian television has made the truth and is making a step towards reaching one level in full terms of the word of the public media, but I can rightly say that there is a big difference there, because Croatian television is now at some distance between one public national television, on the one hand, and on the other hand commercial television. Croatian television must also go according to the law and according to the principle of objectivity, according to the principle of professionalism in a full institution, which is a public, public institution, a national institution. In the further part, I will specifically refer to the information program. In the information program is particularly important this principle as both Marx Weber and Dr. Sopnar and everyone else with politicalism, objective and professionalism. And there is a Croatian radio far stronger than Croatian television. If that were the case, I do not wish to, I would well-intentionedly draw attention to the unprofessional, unoccupied contributions that we have had in the period of this report on Croatian television, and I will mention the most recent examples, although there are many, and I would like to do so if there are no such examples. The first one of such examples of Mr. Ladisic, who is a really educated and top-notch journalist, but in the big plan for the discussion of Harrison's flowers, he calls the producer and says, is it true that you gave your right to display Harrison's flowers in Croatia to an extreme party? To the extreme party, he meant HSPs. So this is part of the total inexperience, total unprofessionalness and influence of the suggestive public opinion. And things like that can't happen on public television. Well, I mean, I can't even get on commercial television in the newspaper's homeroom, because that's how we leave both the freedom of the press and everything else. The second part was when he gave the sequence from the beginning of the movie Harrison's flowers, where he takes the part where the beginning, Americans don't know what's going on in Croatia, he doesn't know what's going on in Vukovar, and there's one in the first part as equating the victim and the aggressor. And that's the same part of the impact on the opinion, and in the entire film, there's nowhere to go, but only the first part. And yet I must commend the Croatian Radio Television that after that the 17th film was now screened by Harrison's flowers, so everyone could see what the situation was like. In this part I say, the people rightly say it depends, I will not name journalists on Croatian television, but I know how they will adapt to certain information shows. He's either left or right. We cannot be left or right in terms of political views, he must be a professional. In the full sense of that word, a professional, and must be objective. I watched a month ago one part of Croatian television related to Croatian defenders and then surveyed in Osijek by Croatian defenders about it, do they know what the possibility and rights are related to hiring a new government programme? And most of the five she was saying were to hear for the first time that they knew nothing. And then the manager says, you see how well defenders are familiar with their rights. That's the part that's inadmissible in that part. For example, Croatian television was unfortunately used one way or another in a pre-election campaign. I will say one part, the Croatian Party of Rights responded to the announcement by Minister Pancic at the time, that it will publish on the route to the Ministry and put on a PC, where everyone will be able to read who made the apartment, residential loan and everything else. We reacted that it was illegal and inadmissible and then there was a play, there was Croatian television, all the TV and his spokeswoman on the computer, on the PC appeared Pero Kovacevic, because I was attacking him at that time in that part. And now, what's unprofessional and unprofessional about it? I can put any name on it. But it would be professional to click the inside and see that I didn't accomplish anything. And now let's say another way of unobstructed information even though it's a little harder to say. Let's say the report from the Croatian Parliament, and there were a lot of situations where representatives spoke, say the Croatian Party Club, but in the report, which I was allowed to mount quickly, means possible and this version and that variant, then the opposition talked about it and so, so the representatives of the HSP Club said, but then others from the opposition show up. All right, that's possible. But I'm saying, there are examples like that, and I'm not going to list them anymore, because I'm going to do my best to answer that question. First, what's HTV today? HTVs today, so Croatian television is not in the full sense of that word and must be made an additional effort to become public, to become an educational and educational institution. Let's look at other public television programs, and you'll see how many documentary programs there are, how many educational programs and everything else, and there's an additional effort to make. And how do you do that? Achieving full professionalism and objectivity in everything, especially in information shows, because we must not informative emissions must be as objective as the way Croatian Radio does and as HINA does. HINA objectively informs wherever she is and says everything that happened, in what way, what is a classic part of journalism and journalism. Now about these further topics. I think it is also necessary here to highlight these parts related to the transfer of Croatian TV sessions of the Croatian Parliament. That's where President Shakespeare was right about a lot of things. It is true that many of the things that happen here in Croatia are not interested in people. But many people say with the right to love to hear what we speak of HSP because it is the only voice of the people in that sense. That's what people say ask them if you don't believe. Now a special problem is related, for example, to the coverage of the Croatian Radio-Television network, so the situation is, for example, in the area of our islands on the Adriatic. We know that the days themselves can watch Croatian TV because they don't do repeaters or you happen things, but that's why Croatian television is going to work. On top of that, he's going to charge the part that they didn't pay in time for the subscription. According to the atom, I plead that we go into this part to create a full sense of further progress for Croatian television to become an objective, professional, educational, educational institution above all. And the commercial part in the immediate public national television must be as small as possible. And the particular problem is this part also related to this part of the information shows, as the Croatian defenders have shown over the past period. They've been screened by shock shows as thieves, as criminals, and let's say my friend Dr. Juraj Njavro himself told that documentary film that was made in 2002, you won't show it for a long time, and you won't show it in prime time. And unfortunately, he was right there too. So let's make public, very public, professional, objective Croatian television, and let's not do the program on principle, which, unfortunately, the people say, on the principle of bread and games. Let Croatian Radio-Television become this, which means, a public institution, for the benefit of citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27489	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative Milorad Pupovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27490	Mr. President, I just didn't know if I could fix it or add it.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27491	To supplement the correction of an incorrect quote. You know what that is.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27492	Yeah. Now you'll see.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27493	I'm telling you, I guess you know what a correction to an incorrect quote is.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27494	So, as far as this learned party is concerned, that is, the party of the learned people, I just wanted to say one thing. Weber, Soapunar and others from polythology. We heard about Webber, though not in the context of the discussion about the media, about the soapunar we heard about but again in another context, so it might be good to just call Webber to see...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27495	It wouldn't be like this, this isn't a correction to an incorrect quote. That's what you'd like to report for discussion. Replica esteemed representative Zlatko Kramarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27496	Thank you, Mr. President, I really need to rephrase to my esteemed colleague, Peri Kovacevic, who said you were usually right. You're always right because you're the chairman.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27497	The reply to the replica, the respected representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27498	I'm giving up the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27499	I'm not a colleague of Kramarić's always right and at least I'm right because I chair. I'm right when the Rules of Procedure is right, when you're wrong. The Tomislav Culjak, the Tomislav Culjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27500	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and fellow MPs. Here is an analysis of this report on the work of the HRT Council and on the implementation of the programming principles and obligations laid down by the Law on Croatian Radio and Television Programmes and of course the directorship's report on HRTA's operations in 2003. I've raised a few questions that aren't covered by these reports. And it concerns HRT relations with local media. I would like to remind you that the February 2003 HRTU Act and the Law on Electoral Media of September 2030, the HRT is obliged to allocate 3% of the total collected fee to the media pluralism and diversity fund. As the fund was established in September 2003, HRTE Croatian television was required to allocate the appropriate funds to a special account of the fund. I have to admit, I haven't noticed how much funds were allocated or how they were and who they were distributed to. I asked around local TV and radio stations, and I was assured that no one had received any of those funds. Which leads me to the possibility that these funds all belonged to HRTU. It's been working on me around 30 million kunas or something. If that's true, then I'm not sure the intensity of the law that established the pluralism and diversity fund of the media is fulfilled. I think the purpose of setting up that fund was something else entirely. I believe that these funds should have been shared with local television and radio stations that are obliged to work among others and an infomitative programme. What could then be called diversity, pluralism, or those funds were designed to promote diversity and pluralism on HRT, which I doubt. I am convinced that citizens in local areas like Vinkovac Vukovar, and so on without local media, would be under-informed and incompletely informed about local topics. And events that aren't in the focus of HRT's profession. With the answer to this question, I am also interested in an agreement concluded on a programme technical co-operation agreement with a dozen local TV stations, signed in December 2000. The contract provided local TV stations with inputs for HRT needs, which should have led to a cheaper programme. That cooperation didn't come to life. Unlike my esteemed colleague Mršić, I think HRTE should use local TV services more in the production of a regional programme. So to produce a regional programme, to focus on local television, and to take over contributions from local television instead of strengthening centres that would work on a regional programme. I believe that this would actually be mutually beneficial and would help produce a better quality local television programme that neither today nor tomorrow will be a competition for HTV. And finally, I hope that I will get an answer to these two questions from HRT leadership, not from an esteemed colleague of the Stazic, who has taken part in HTV spokeswoman. And that my thinking won't be understood if I put pressure on HRTE.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27501	Thank you. Replica esteemed representative Antun Vujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27502	Mr. President, I wanted to give a positive replica of a colleague who unfortunately ruined my favored, mine to say a positive wish,... I don't know what it was supposed to be. [[You don't understand.]] The fact is that the funds were provided and needed to be developed by the Council for Electronic Media. However, it is a fact and I am glad that a representative of the relevant ministry, the competent ministry, is sitting here, that the regulation has not yet been passed. The Regulation shall be adopted by the Ministry, and under that Regulation, those resources may be shared. With great hope, exactly pluralism of the media was based on these 3%, and that's what I'm saying, it should have already started. Unfortunately, this Council with a weak interest in VLADE is not qualified at this time or for monitoring, and the negligence of the competent ministry has not been passed a rule on which these funds could be allocated, which you rightly ask to begin as soon as possible, to say so, but is not the address of Mr Stazic, but is your address to the Government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27503	Please. Replication response. The Honorable Representative, Mr. Zvonimir Culjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27504	Well, I'm glad you agree with me that these funds were to be shared and that this law was passed as I said in 2003, but unfortunately they are not divided into local media and why not? That's also the government you were in. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27505	Well, please, what do we do now? What are we on... And what is this, Mr. Vujic, so you were, I repeat, the culture minister? This isn't a market. ... Well, bonton's involved in culture. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] He's involved in culture. Would you like to sit in this seat? ... No, but you can't, you know you can't throw. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] You can, but you shouldn't. You shouldn't, yeah. ... Yes, in a democratic way, you'll welcome it in a democratic way. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Honorable representative of Zvonimir Culjak, finish your line. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I didn't hear her since I've been distracted by Mr. Vujic to hear her.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27506	I finished the line, and I'm glad Mr. Vujic heard it, because I gave it to him.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27507	Yeah. Okay. So Mr. Vujic heard. That's good. And then a replica, a respected representative of Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27508	Well, at no point did I talk about strengthening regional centres being shut down by local or regional TV stations. I was talking about a situation in my county where we don't have a local TV station. So, I'd be very happy if you just... What? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] If just from the cooperation of Croatian TV and Vinkovačka TV, it comes to the fact that Vinkovačka TV is technically being strengthened, that the criteria are being raised professionally, and that is the point. There are good examples, and there are also bad examples and collaborations of Croatian television with local or regional TV stations, but I was talking about a situation where there is no local TV station, so there is no one to cooperate with, but I am very interested in equipping the studio in Koprivnica, to staff the studio in Koprivnica and to get more than 8 minutes in the County panorama. I'm interested in that. Of course, I'm interested in local or regional, regional center and regional TV station at some point, but I will be glad if Croatian TV helps Vinkovaga TV strengthen.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27509	Thank you. Replication response. The Honorable Representative, Mr. Zvonimir Culjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27510	Tomislav, president.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27511	Tomislav. Nice.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27512	Well, I may have overlooked it, but it seems to me that Mr. Mršić was talking about the development of studies that produce a regional programme and that's why I called on him. I think that where Croatian television, where local television, has an adequate quality of production of a specific programme and I think that Croatian television can use local TV services there and that would be cheaper and Croatian TV, and would help certain television houses, local houses then improve the quality of the problem and make it easier to finance.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27513	And the third replica, the esteemed representative of Miroslav Korenik.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27514	Thank you very much, Mr. President. But I can't agree with Mr. Culko until the end. I agree that Croatia's radio television up to 10% of its legal obligation gives foreign, or external productions, but I'm not sure that giving this in the field of news is the best and happiest solution, because we have examples of television, these local TVs, especially in the eastern part of Croatia, which are far from professionalism and what should be public television. Therefore, I think that in other segments of the programme, yes, but in the news programme, that yet Croatian radio television should further develop its network and thus come up with the most objective information. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27515	Thank you. Replica reply, distinguished representative Tomislav Culjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27516	Well, unlike colleagues in Korenika, I think it becomes also in eastern Croatia and local television that make a quality program and that part of this programme can certainly be used on information emissions, but also on other emissions that occur there, and I am convinced that this cooperation between local and local televisions, not only one and HRT, would certainly be mutually beneficial.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27517	Dear representative Zdenka Babic-Petricevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27518	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. I will not say my voice, the voice of the emigrant, but I am a representative of numerous Croatian emigrants and we have a very important topic in front of us, and this is the report of the Croatian Radio programme, i.e. Croatian television. On the very constitution that I quote in the Croatian Parliament, the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, Article 10 provides care for Croatian emigration, and one of the most important components of that part of the Constitution is how to inform the great Croatian emigration, i.e. Croatians living outside the country, and Mr. Director, I will briefly refer to what we have already discussed, on the Committee on Immigration, that is, Croatian Radio, the voice of Croatia and the picture of Croatia on the satellite programme. Here we heard, several days were spoken about the voice of Croatia and this is also a very important way of informing Croatian emigrants which can be listened to around the world for 24 hours and reducing the funds of 500 thousand kunas I hope and I am sure it will not affect what Croatia's voice has done for the past few years and has well informed Croatian emigrants. However, since Croatian emigration is informed by both technical and programming in several ways, surely in the European countries, Croatians can watch all three Croatian TV programmes, provided they have satellite, via satellite. Here, soon there will be a newspaper, which is for Croatian emigration in America and Canada where that part will be encoded, normally you yourself received a letter from the Croatian Congress of Croatian associations from Canada and North America, accepting the encoding of the program, but for that they expect from you a change of programme, a richer program than it has ever been. Today, in the course of a debate that has been going on for 9 hours and 30 minutes in the country, we have often talked about programs, editors, professionalism, what I won't repeat, but I insist that this programme be really the kind of Croatian state, or public television, that is, public television is expected, and that is to make this programme richer in terms of culture, education, economy, tourism and I have recently watched a wonderful documentary on Zagreb. I hope that documentary films for that part of the Croatian satellite program will be richer than they have been before. I also hope that what I told you myself on the Committee on Immigration, that in this situation and this demographic picture of the Republic of Croatia, Croatian television as a public television can affect the great return of Croatian people precisely by informing them and indicating that Croatia is a country where their life is safe and even from some countries where they live and their parents will be different than that, for example. I will not mention any country or name any country, each country lives by its own standard as it can afford. I often get letters as an emigrant agent where you say okay music is, when a man sings he doesn't mean evil. The satellite program in most cases, I'm not going to say now, either 70 or 80% is made up of music. Croatian people outside the country also need these music, but I don't think we can afford it in that part if Croats watch an American movie through satellite programs in North America and Canada. They can look at it at their home stations and I think that that way and that's why, so if you don't want to spend budget funds, we're going to make them informed in another way like I said culture, education, tourism, the economy and on these programmes this program is very cheap. I will not talk about the expertise of the people who run this program, I hope you said that you are responsible for these people, that there will be changes and that this part of the programme will also be led by professional people who know both sides of the country and the requirements on the one hand and on the other. And now I'm going to go back to what's often been repeated today. Many of us would ask ourselves, Croatian Radio Television, or Croatian Television programme on expertise to the representation of political parties in the Croatian Parliament, none of us are satisfied. We all object to each other, so this morning it was mentioned that the current Croatian government has a priority on Croatian television, so I will prove to you from several examples that it is not, maybe another government was on Croatian television and had a priority whose influences are still felt on Croatian television and not only on Croatian television but also on other media. When Protocol VII was signed, then Mr. former Minister of Agriculture commented on it and had the full right and let the opposition comment and that's good, but I also expected Protocol VII to comment on the current economy minister. It's recent, excuse agriculture and forestry. It was recently the same topic where the former Minister of Economy commented, and I expected the current Minister, Mr Vukelic, to have not seen him, so here is often commented by Mr. current representative and former Minister of European Integration Mr. Mimi, and it is good to comment because I do not doubt his profession, but I expected at least a few minutes or a few seconds later and the current Minister for European Integration. If that were to happen, then I would say thank God for that, because it goes to the benefit of Croatian people. There's something I told you on the board, and I'm gonna do it again. You've lived outside the country for a long time, 15 years in France, I've lived in Germany for 30 years, and I know the difference between ID and CDF, unlike DTL and their stations in Germany and there are over 30, which is the responsibility of public television as opposed to commercial television. I told you that even one country and France where you have lived for a long time, that it has experienced what we have experienced since 1990, so here to this day we are creating and I hope that the Croatian state in all aspects of its life will be better every day, then it would not forget a single station in European countries what is often forgotten through means of public communication especially Croatian television, which is the Homeland War. Three years ago, I experienced a day when armed forces were marked in Canada, I was in Cleveland, what I had never experienced in my country, I doubted I would experience. On that day, there is an alley of 500 banners, where 500 American banners were reported from every banner, a pardon of Canadian banners, beneath each banner was a series of names. If that had happened in Croatia then they would have said that if those Croats had attributed us to chauvinism. We must do all, and I especially hope Croatian television will be in something the same teacher of Croatian history and Croatian language that Mr Galic in these cases today is not, if it is to a small extent, but it is not very much. I have lived outside for a long time and I am not ashamed to say, I am learning from someone and a good Croatian word and in the Croatian Assembly, unfortunately I hear it very rarely, I thought that everyone speaks much better Croatian than I who spent 30 years outside of my homeland, so here I can't even experience it in the Croatian Parliament. By means of means of public communication, I tried to check myself if I speak Croatian well, and I couldn't do it either. Therefore, your obligations to this part that we have mentioned very often today are great with both good programme and good and professional people you will see that Croatian television will become, in the right sense, what Croatians expect in their country and Croats outside the country. I will briefly look back on the Croatian national minority living in European countries. I think that this programme towards the Croatian national minority in European countries that it is short, that during that short time you can neither well nor inform, let alone young generations help Croatian television become also a teacher as I have said, Croatian language and Croatian history. According to the Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina, I won't speak for long,...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27519	Exactly, because you can't even talk for long, because it's past time.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27520	Here's another sentence. My colleague Bagarić will speak, but our duty, that is, your duty towards that part of Croatia, will be different to the Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina, but I hope it will not always depend on material resources. There's something bigger that's worth more than a kuna, and that's a man.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27521	Thank you very much. We have one correction to the incorrect allegations, Mr. Representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27522	And that's what I've been waiting for!
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27523	The incorrect claim by Mrs Babić-Petricevic that 500 thousand kuna in the budget will not affect the broadcasting of the emigration programme. They want Mrs. Babic-Petricevic. The programme, a 24-hour radio and 8-hour television programme, was set up by the government of Ivica Racan. Ivica Racan came as prime minister to open the program. And 500 thousand kunas less, not only will it make it difficult for the programme to take place, but it is talking about the real interest of HDZ and Sanader's government to keep the emigrants well informed. It is one thing to talk about the need for emigrants to be informed, and it is quite another to enable money from the budget to do so. There's a big, huge difference between this budget and last year, between Sanader's relationship and the Racan government's relationship to this problem. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27524	Thank you very much. Let's move on. Mr. Representative Ivan Bagarić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27525	I thank you, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen, for the esteemed leadership of Croatian Radio Television. Listening to some criticism about television, or television, and at the same time responding from the opposition side of the bench as it was almost banned, then I thought, or I thought, that we had recently voted the Law on the Protection of Patients’ Rights. If we can't speak critically about television then we'll also have to vote on the law on protecting the rights of viewers to actually influence television because if nothing else, because 60% of the TV revenue I know is funded from the subscription. Croatian television is, in order to avoid confusion, for me a quality television, and it will be even more quality if there is a change in the context that Mrs Martincevic spoke of competently. You'd be back to this exhibit now. The Annual Report on the work of Croatian Television in the section of the Informative Programme states that the Directorate for Minorities and Diaspora is broadcasting "The Voice of Homeland", "Prizum" and "The Roots" as emissions intended for Croats outside Croatia. Since Bosnia and Herzegovina's Croats are not a diaspora or a national minority, it turns out that Croatian television is not talking to them. True, some contributions can be found in these shows, but according to the report addressed to the HTV Assembly, it is not official for Croatians in the neighbouring country. It is also not seen how HTV informs the Croatian audience about its own people in the nearest neighborhood. The public in Croatia has the right to be informed about their own people, about part of their own people, the sovereign people in another country, Bosnia and Herzegovina. About other parts of the Croatian people no matter where the world is and vice versa. Croatians around the world have the right and need to know about Croatia and themselves. These rights are guaranteed and Article 5 is replaced by the following: The law on HTV that regulates programming principles and obligations so that HTV, where it says that HTV in its programmes would have to satisfy public interest at national and local level. The obligation to produce and publish emissions intended to inform members of the Croatian people outside Croatia is also cited. This results in the obligation of the Council of the Croatian Broadcasting Council to ensure more full attention to Bosnian Herzegovina's Croats as part of its regular monitoring of the implementation of the programme principles and obligations laid down by law. At the same time, Bosnia and Herzegovina's Croats need space on Croatian state television in order for the entire Croatian public not only to be familiar with their culture, economy and all the opportunities and difficulties they live in. Disputing the rights of the Croatian people in Bosnia and Herzegovina on their own television in their own country could be the subject of such a show. I think that in public in Croatia one such show, or one such programme, would be monitored and of interest. If for nothing else because a large part of the Croatian population comes from Bosnia and Herzegovina and in these benches here, I think at least 10% of us were born in Bosnia and Herzegovina. The well-prepared research content with a critical view based on evidence would be interesting for Croatian audiences, especially in Croatia, then for Croatians around the world and for us in Bosnia and Herzegovina. How do such a programme make available to Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina and the world? Understandably, the Earth signal cannot cover Bosnia and Herzegovina, and the satellite program will be because it is encrypted. The biggest number of Croatians around the world is not a problem to buy, so to speak, access to the satellite programme of HTV, however, Croatian minorities in some European countries, e.g. in Romania, they are not in such a situation. Unfortunately, not even the largest number of Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina are able to include this spending item with their home budget no matter how much they need to watch HTV. Therefore, it would be expected for Croats, e.g. in Romania, as well as Bosnia and Herzegovina, allow HTV to be monitored at symbolic prices or free of charge. If the HTV Programme Council accepts such a proposal, it is understandable that it will conduct a study of justification to show the needs, possibilities, prices and other details of this. No matter what, I'm pretty sure of one thing. Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina until they get their own TV set next to those who are now watching need HTV. The realization of this project would open at least one of the many blind windows of the house in which they live to look at the world and see them better from the world. Finally, I really don't want to interfere with the policy of creating a programme or an editorial policy. I'm talking about needs. Some shows must really never be encrypted so that all Croatian citizens can follow them. Because of the lack of own TV, our people in the world are influenced by foreign programs in our comprehensible languages of private television, bad television, created after the collapse of the former state. Today without CNN, the Internet would be poorer. For us Croatians and Croatian citizens, HTV is one of the particular interests. If television is public, then public well, then it is for everyone's own good and it should be accessible to everyone. As city lighting or city park is open and accessible to all and no one is asking for a ticket to access this public good. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27526	Thank you very much. We have two replicas, the first Mr. Representative of Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27527	My colleague Bagaric, I fully agree with you that you should inform Croatians abroad about everything that is going on in Croatia, especially about important political events, but you see, they will already be better informed by Croatians in the country today, in the country. Because after this item of the agenda, this House will discuss the shift of Minister Zuzul. The HDZ deliberately puts that point, in itself uncomfortable, at the time of the afternoon when there is no direct transmission to Croatian broadcasting, but the Assembly is transmitted through this HRT Plus programme. It is cable and satellite television, and you see, the emigrants will be able to monitor this debate in direct transmission when we present all the arguments why Minister Zuzul should resign or should be replaced, and Croats in the country will not be able to do so. They won't be informed if they don't have cable TV.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27528	Mr. Stazic, it's not the HDZ that put the Council president on the agenda, and I am obliged to explain that HDZ has put on TV, and no Rules of Procedure has been injured, so I will not give you the word... I would like to explain that it wasn't the HDZ that put the president of the Parliament on the agenda. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Reply to the replica Mr. Ivan Bagarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27529	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. You know that the agenda was unanimously adopted and you had no objections to that agenda, so much for respecting the agenda. And when it comes to this remark of yours that you've made, then let me also let the audience say this, we know you in the assembly, we know you personally, we know your steps, and we understand why you're taking them in and setting them up. However, it is good that the whole world, the whole of Croatia, the public sees in fact that you have a more important, priority debate on what you have imposed as a problem, and this problem does not exist from the problem that it is, we are talking about the problem, and the problem is Croatian television at this time, it is an important problem for the Croatian people as a whole and what you are talking about is totally secondary and irrelevant and it is not exactly what you are talking about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27530	I thank you he has a replica and Mr. Representative Ivo Loncar here.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27531	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, so you can see my MPs when we play a little bit, so we'll miss the subject one more time and I'll tell you what the subject is today. Report on the work of the HRT Council and on the implementation of the programme principles and obligations laid down by the Law on Croatian Radio and Croatian Television Programmes for the period from 14 November 2003 to 30 June 2004. The source of all the evils on Croatian television is this puzzling Law on HRT, the former government has passed two nakaradnada laws on HRT and has changed it for a year. According to this latest domestic law that damages Croatian television, the Programme Council has been elected to represent the public in some way. Whose public and what public they represent there, this Programme Council has the power to elect part of the management and editorial leadership of today's Croatian television and these are the same people under whose leadership in early 90s has been persecuted and expelled by many honest, honest and moral Croatian journalists. They're people for all time, and they're people who serve all the regimes, and they're people who serve all the authorities. That's the problem, and that's what, unfortunately, my people, who are so fond of me on my left, don't understand anything in this debate. Finally, Croatian television is not public, it is not national, it is not state-owned but it is semi-commercial of eternal people who rule Croatian television. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27532	Thank you. Reply to the replica Mr. Ivan Bagarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27533	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, unlike the previous one, this reply was constructive, and I thank you for it. However, I can sort of agree with you, of course I understand what you're talking about and I hold that you're right, but if there are any changes spoken of by Mrs Martincevic, Croatian television will be much more quality and it will be much more public and much more public good for all of us. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27534	Thank you very much. Now he has the word Mr. Representative Antun Vujic here.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27535	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I was going to shorten my discussion to just one measure of things, but unfortunately, I don't have to comment on some of the statements that were heard here because the others were not commented. It's about cleaning up some of this government, the one. Since 2000 who? Who? You want to mention what kind of cleaners they were until then, you want to mention who was left without a job, do you want to mention reports of international organisations, monitorings, domestics, so to say associations dealing with issues that are listed only next, that the pressures of 2000 have stopped and that they seem to have started again before that, because if VAT is put into something that we might be charging and maybe not what it is but pressure and individual interventions that I'm not talking about. Second, there's been a lot of editing on the journal and other shows. I would warn some who have been giving their visions of how the shows should look and who think they are not represented enough to be too happy to be more represented from the opposition's point of view because it was the best propaganda for the opposition, so I hope you'll hear what some of them have been saying. I wanted to concentrate on just one thing but one more thing I have to say and repeat because it's extremely important, a colleague from HDZ mentioned it, I mentioned it in the introduction, I mentioned it a few more times. The Council for Electronic Media has been set up and a 300 million kuna fund for pluralism of the media has begun to be formed, only in figures to tell you it's somewhere between 600 and 800 possible employees of journalists not to work black but to work normally. The rule has not been passed, the government has passed by genosis which would otherwise not have been recommended by me, but so it turned out it proposed to this government and this government has appointed the Council of Electronic Media, this Ministry and I would ask Mr. Secretary to answer me why the rule is not being adopted to act according to what is therefore heard that one public request is not only on this side but also on this side because the money is already inside and should start doing so. And now listen to one thing I ask you to understand about the Law and to leave the rhetoric thing to the rhetorical happy or unhappy who speak of their discipline and their shame. Only two points are disputed by these laws or this HRT Act. One point, is the way the election of a council to which an alternative is given the way the Council was elected before and which led to a disaster and another point is whether reports should at all be considered by the Assembly or sufficient to be considered only by the Council. And the way we have passed this Law is expressed the will of this Parliament and of this state as a Croatian state which is the legislative body of the Croatian Parliament to place certain things under minimum authority and responsibilities. Whoever wants to tear it down is opening these two questions, not other questions, and that's why it's Mr. Vice President's responsibility, and now I'm also talking to you as president of the HDZ Club to think carefully when individuals come up with ideas about the new law, which really means a new law. Because all the other elements are not only consistent with external factors but are at the highest standards in Europe and such assessments we have received for legislation, but if it wants to change the law just to provoke the situation that new people are willing to put on what places it is then abuse, but it is not about me being abused as abuses, but it is about the damage that can be caused in this country, the public and the final arrangement of the state which is a propos, 99 million kunas of debt, losses, and now there are 60 million to be in plus, so when we already count on what it is, please give us to be responsible regardless of which side of this Assembly we are sitting on and that we are talking about the measure in a fair way and responsible way towards the public and those we represent in this country. It would be the fate of a new law some advocate, so I pray that that is the way to talk about it. The standard and method of election of the council, the Croatian Programme Council, is the highest current standard in Europe, which combines two factors. His full independence but also a certain responsibility that is realized through some way of considering the report itself, what else. The autogenetics of creating the kind of situations we've had with attempts to make politics from the council itself as political parties with attempts to master television, with direct interference on what's going to happen tonight, because we've had cases like this. Now we've got it all figured out. We haven't achieved in all television as we wish and we can't achieve it. We can't achieve it especially with ideas about how to edit inside and what to let go, what not to let go. It can be achieved by people on a platform that is designed to develop in the direction of autonomy, journalistic professions, primarily because it is autonomy, autonomy is independent journalism, not autonomy any kind of physical autonomy compared to thinking of all possible influences because they can be publicly expressed, but cannot have a significant impact. And now that we've achieved one liquid, which is the fluid of all of us here together and you sitting there and sitting here, some of you are questioning it without knowing what you're talking about. So please consider that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27536	Thank you very much. Here's when you asked me a direct question, I'd like to calm you down, I, as the president of the club, will carefully consider your views in changing the law, not touching the business law of the Parliament's legislative activity, of course. We have two replicas and two corrections to an incorrect quote. First, the replica of Mrs. Jagoda, and the correction of the incorrect quote was the first. I apologize to Mr. Evey Lonchar. Here's Ivo Lonchar's rectification of an incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27537	Well, I was very glad that my colleague Vujic, by the way, had become this upset by the former culture minister. He says, "Only two points are controversial in this law." It's all slow, Mr. Vujic. Before that, you've passed a law that civilization and the world don't remember, a nakarada that's done a lot of damage, this law too. Then you said, this law is the highest stage in Europe. Right and Communism was the highest stage of socialism, or the dictatorship of proletariat, and where did it end? It's a dispute between Mr. Vujic and the HRT program council, you spoke of it. Who's he representing today? Two-thirds of the members who are in conflict of interest are sitting in that Council. How can there be people whose movies are spinning on television, whose books are advertised there, etc. I don't want to talk. So they do not represent the public, we finally wish to have Croatian television to make it national, public and democratic we must change this law. I know it hurts you, because it's your authorial work, and you've called Mr. Jakubovic, who I've talked about before, and he knows about TV as much as I do about surgery, and I have no idea about surgery. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27538	Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect quote Mr. Representative Krunoslav Markovnović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27539	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, here I am correcting the inaccuracies of my colleague Vujic that the biggest cleanups were before and in 2000 everything was fine. In fact, we're just now on the Committee on Spatial Planning, etc. As already called, they had a report and a plan of statisticians, so they argue, the first people statistics claim that today's data, the exact data that is now being taken into the world's analysis, appear in statistics only two years from now. So what happened in 2000 is data from 98. What is said about corruption so far is from 2002. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27540	Thank you very much. There was a talk about a cleaning lady, he says otherwise. The replica of Mrs. Jagoda Martincevic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27541	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I answered the line so I could ask my colleague Vujic a question. There were speeches, you mentioned cleanups, so you mentioned the autonomy of journalism, etc. Before I say why would I ask you a question, I'll ask it. Do you know the difference between Chicholin and Cicholini? You probably know. Well, you see. Editors on Croatian Radio TV don't know that. Well, they're chasing, I'm gonna do it again for those who may not know, because it's still my profession, Aldo Chollini is one of the world's greatest pianists. Mrs. or Miss Chicholina is our former colleague in the Italian Parliament, but also a very cheerful lady. And the editors on TV announce the performance of Ald Chicholini, so they don't, they don't know, they never read anything, they chase things and do shame. Would you like to clean up such an editor or not? I would.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27542	Answer to the replica Mr. Antun Vujic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27543	... A colleague of Mrs. Jagoda Martincevic. [[speaks later turned on, can't be heard]] This conflict of interest that you're now talking about, and who you've been formulating in this way, perhaps some others might consider it, because let's just say the conflict of interest might be much greater among those who took their own time loans on television and no longer work on television, and now they're so terribly careful that no one else would be in conflict of interest. I don't know if you understand me. I hope those who need me understood me. I'm sorry I couldn't answer you better than you asked me to, but I think it's clear what I am, what I said and who I told and how they abuse and throw themselves here and muddy people. And they shouldn't be of some.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27544	Thank you very much. Ma'am, there's no replica on the line. But there's another replica of Mrs. Ivana Sucec-Thrakostan.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27545	Mr. Vice President, I didn't know first because I'd be afraid to answer the line, so from this kind of resolution tone, the wave of the index finger, and now the answer to the lady's MPs, I feel like I should be very careful now what I'm about to say. But I must say that I cannot accept, as a final condition, the facts that come out of the speech quote, "We are liquid, nothing can be touched, and when you touch and put not only in someone's mouth, but also in the head of an intention that has not been shown anywhere," so, Mr. counterpart. If and when MPs or government estimates that this law should be amended, we will all discuss it here. But as far as I can see, this Law, which is now in force, which is like a acquired liquid, is only in force since 27th of February 2003, so until then there was some law that was defended by those who brought it as the greatest possible gain. So all the laws are probably some kind of thing that evolves and develops according to the life that goes forward. Well, I couldn't possibly accept that these materials that we now have and this found state of the Holy Scriptures which I repeat to this Croatian Parliament only for the improvement of both Croatian television and Croatian public should never be changed. And I hope that in some parts that will improve overall relations and change it for our term of office. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27546	Thank you. Answer to the replica Mr. Antun Vujic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27547	It'll be more direct. I agree with you that the law was passed, so that after the law was passed, the law was passed. And that's precisely for the reason, which is that the first law that was passed was now passed I'll say it now while I might have been a minister I wouldn't have said it, by one dictatorship that proved absolutely unfulfilled and which led to great damage to... public television. And then we kept the interests of this Parliament and this state changed those aspects of that law, complementing many others, who created a new system of responsibility and were bound to a much more rational and certainly high standards, a high democratic standard based system of election of the Council, in which there could be no majorisation, in which it was chosen in a way that primarily, if both of them were able to say so, or if there were more arrangements for a common number of representatives, and if not to go 1:1 etc. And we still can't go from there. We can't, because nobody's smart enough to remember what we could do even better now. But we can't because no one's smart enough to remember what we could do even better now. However, there was a criticism on your part at the time that this would not work first, so it worked. That they couldn't choose the people they chose, so they chose the people. So ultimately, the business of television is fine. So what are we talking about now? What, what we want now, and a list of criticism, a list of criticisms may have been muffled on this side because we focused primarily on the essence of this problem. My personal identity would be quite abundant and you could agree with the gentlemen, with Mrs. Jagoda Martincevic around the entire list of such and similar gaffs. However, we have now finally come into a situation so that it can start to improve. Under the previous law, we could do nothing because the line of responsibility had no impact on the implementation of any policy on this television and neither could you in the Assembly discuss what you can today. So let's recognize the liquids in the liquids, and in the bad moves, bad moves.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27548	Thank you. Thank you very much. Don't be, please, nobody got the word, and now Mr. Representative Ante Djapic will get the word. [[The intruders don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27549	Mr. Vice President, gentlemen from Croatian Radio, colleagues and colleagues. The two-day debate, therefore separated for a week, but it lasted for two days on Croatian television, on these two reports says that the process of transforming Croatian television from, from, from, from, 1990 to, is still going on here. Namely, the transformation of media such as television from one media that was under the totalitarian system and which was well analytical in turning television into public and national security is a process that will still need time when we talk about Croatian television. We, of course, have already made positive assessments of this report on behalf of the Club. We believe that there is a good shift in Croatian broadcasting, but we also retain the right to exclude critical objects to what we consider necessary to be highlighted. In fact, when we talk about freedom of the media then today we heard both last time and such attitudes and a statement that Croatian politicians and officials can have their own personal position that something is wrong on television, but that it should not be talked about in any way in a critical way because it can also be considered part of the pressure on the media. I usually belong to politicians and MPs who I've never called a journalist in my life to express no dissatisfaction with what's been published either about HSP or about me or I've never asked for a conversation, an interview or anything like that. Therefore, I therefore believe that I can also warn some things about the wish that Croatian television, in the first place I speak about Croatian television because we believe that the radio has a better rating in our Club and in the party around its work, some of the facilities that need to be taken into account when we are discussing this. Namely, it has already been said here, I think that the debate of colleague Line Cervara is what I would say today, it is professionalism and objectivity and I would say self-control of editors and journalists that... and suggestive issues do not practically create politics in Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] They must be a service. They must be objective. They must give a clear, accurate picture of the situation in Croatian society and Croatian moods, not create politics in the way it happens in Croatia too often. So we need to set the criteria for what these are criteria in the programme orientation of Croatian television. ... We speak publicly and nationally. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So the public, therefore, means a faithful copy of society, thus allowing the ordinary Croatian citizen to have space on Croatian television if this is something of interest to the Croatian public, but of course, and all other categories, and on the other hand it must be of course and national, make sure that the work of Croatian television is in line with the principles of interest. In our bill of law, when we proposed the Law on HRT, you remember that, Mr. Director, we proposed the model the BBC has. So the BBC has in its work very limiting factors. There's no public television in the world if we're gonna talk about the public. But when it comes to the protection of British national interests, then they're very careful. Since the report in Iraq, and I don't know what not, you couldn't see anything happening to them, which would be contrary to their interests, and when it happened once that British journalists tried to react negatively to an action in Iraq, that the BBC director had major problems, and I think there were some deviations. What's he saying? This says that Croatian television cannot afford gaff with Aleksandar Tijanic. This says that Croatian television must take care of itself, use in the political sense and the case "Bralo" which is not mentioned at all on Croatian television. So these were situations where Croatian television could be national television. When she had the chance and the chance that she was the strongest medium, I use the term most dangerous here, so some people are bothered by it, he is dangerous in the case of Aleksandar Tijanic. Because, in that case, it has been shown that all Croatian citizens have been paid on Croatian television for an hour, for a large Serbian promotion. So here we are talking about the criteria for the establishment of the Croatian Television programme and in this direction I appeal to you to then take a much stricter, more rigorous account. This does not mean limiting the media, but often, freedom of the media, and often it is known that it was Voltair's saying to be behind high ideals, freedom, I will add here freedom of the media, often hiding very low, ground-based goals. So it can be put under it all, so it can be promoted and through the most important Croatian media is the strongest, and things that have no touch points with dominant Croatian values national. If you can still talk about it in Croatia, that we have some national values, I don't know, from family, from country, from the war we fought, which we, from our heroes and so on. So there is a whole range of values that we in Croatia at least assume the right party to still live well in the Croatian people and these feelings and these values should be taken into account. Thus, there were talks here on the main faults of the existing law where counterpart Vujic said he had two flaws, i.e. two issues. One of them is: should the report be discussed at all? I believe that it is absolutely necessary to discuss the report exactly in a manner and well-intentioned manner when we have what to praise, but very strongly criticize if we estimate that this battle in the commercialisation market of television raises the question I would say these other values and the fundamental one would say the role of Croatian television should be educational, educational, cultural, educational. Therefore, raising generations that, which last, come behind us and in this direction, it must not succumb to the atmosphere and to the kind of competition in which in one way that is completely unacceptable to me, and that is what I say freedom of the media is treated some values, some phenomena as the most normal, and what we consider our values is ignored on Croatian television or even knows how to be the subject of ridicule, that I do not now elaborate certain cases. So when we talk about HTV, I'm going to point out one more time, there's definitely a move. Kola Kovacevic spoke of some of the remarks that we made about, and even concrete names, should not in essence, names should not be mentioned, but we would like journalists who are involved, editors who work on Croatian television, as much as possible to be deprived of their own political feelings. So they can have their views, they show it to the vote when they have, etc. But in editing the emissions, especially the information program, from editing the Diaries, from editing some shows should be kept in mind that they must primarily be objective, professional, allow all sides to hear about a particular problem and then Croatian television will continue to I hope and speed up this process from the transformation of television that has been in communism for decades and clearly that this is not an easy process. It is logical that it was a cemented state from which both wartime and wartime were to seek both personnel and people and educated and fulfill this role of public service on the one hand, and on the other hand try to remain national. It's no shame to be both national and public. No, it's not a shame. I would say that this is our obligation, and Croatian television here has a decisive role when it comes to Croatian media space because it is a huge part of the press media in Croatian and electronic media, is not what would be said conditionally in Croatian hands but they have other content, other values, other kind of commercial, and Croatian television with all difficulties must not be overly responded to called commercialisation and then in this direction lose that fundamental direction, the fundamental direction and it would be the one that many colleagues and colleagues have talked about today. In that name, we support the report, but I say we have a lot of objects and remarks and we hope and expect that these remarks will not be taken maliciously but as a contribution to the fact that some things on Croatian television do not happen to us, and that I will not repeat these two more cases, that Tijanic does not happen again to us with all respect to the freedom of editors, inviting guests he wants, that I do not know why such a rush against these people, people, politicians from Serbia, where it has not yet been clearly defined, but has not been defined at all, or has been a negative relationship towards Croatia by their foreign minister who says that Mihajlovic was not a fascist, etc. I say, of course, to the use of those situations for journalists very challenging, as was the case with Bralo, who could have been very politically capitalized and also in the media. Well, I see the red light's on and I thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27550	Thank you very much. We have two replicas. The first is Mr. Representative Ivo Lonchar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27551	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. My dear colleague, Anto Djapic, spoke of the law, said that he could also support the law, so since this law is being talked about all the time, I will now tell another absurdity of this law. Under this law, the Director-General can sign the transaction up to 10 million kuna, and above that he has to ask the directorship, and the same principal is proposing that the director of Croatian Television, proposes the director of Croatian Radio and proposes the director of Music Production, and now if he would like to sign one transaction over 10 million kuna, he must ask for consent from those he has just set up. Here it is, I'm sorry there are no colleagues here, so I'd like him to comment on this. Here are the currents of this law that must not be touched, which is European, global, etc. etc. and only real damage to Croatian television and 3 and a half thousand employees there who work in that house. And by the way, as far as the program is concerned, I've said it a few times today, and right now, politicians can't get involved in the program. Politicians can't have an impact on journalists. I have personally experienced a lot of these days and lately, but I still have politicians not to interfere in the editorial policy of any media, so neither Croatian television nor any influence on journalists or the media, because where there is no freedom of the media there is no democracy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27552	Thank you. Replication response, Mr. Anto Djapic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27553	I hope my colleague Loncar didn't think that I was meddling in editorial policy, because it turned out that on my speech he answered the line, and I didn't normally say that I supported the law existing, but I said that we had our own bill that was based on the BBC that map of theirs about freedom of the media and the formation of that state television like the BBC, and in that direction I'm going to repeat again. Therefore, this law may not be good, my colleague Loncar knows better about the media than I do, may need to change it, but I have talked more about the programme and the criteria for how this programme is formed and I hope that the remarks we have made will help make this programme better in the future.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27554	Thank you very much. Another replica. Mr. Representative Franjo Arabovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27555	Dear Mr. Vice President, the speaker has been turned off and turned back on. Mr. Brahl and this gentleman I won't even say his name to. Do you happen to find it a little strange for this gentleman to be only 24 hours before the president of the Croatian government goes to Belgrade? That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27556	Thank you very much. Let's move on. Mr. Representative Josie Leco, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27557	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear gentlemen from Croatian Radio, colleagues and colleagues. At the beginning of this, I hope a brief exposure will be made immediately. I have nothing to discuss in the Parliament too, to give criticism, reviews, evaluations, praises of the Croatian Radio Television programme, but immediately after that, I ask that the mother be returned, and Croatian television to Croatian viewers. Therefore, I ask that my possible evaluation of the Croatian Broadcasting Programme be understood only to the level that every average Croatian broadcaster has, no less. Why am I asking that? It is simply that I understand the need for public television not to be influenced either by the ruling or opposition policy, and I confess here publicly to Croatian television that we are all party-class, no matter what we call ourselves, and that we are spoken of by a political stance. That is why we colleagues and colleagues have sought a solution in the spirit of democratic standards of the European Union countries to provide Croatian television, Croatian Radio with standards, democratic standards that will allow it to be independent of the daily policy of any party in Croatia. For this reason, I must repeat what changes in democratic standards have been ensured since 2000 on Croatian radio television. Of course, we were wandering in the last term looking for the best standards. The law is, the Law on Croatian Radio Television certainly solved the problem of independence of the directorship and programme council. Whether in the best way or there are better ones, of course we can always discuss it, but certainly there is a shift done. Therefore, the director and editors of Croatian Radio Television do not put politics or daily or permanent but the viewers of Croatian Radio Television through the programme council. Then Croatian television is materially secured as an independent institution. And yet another important achievement is that the tariff, the subscription of Croatian broadcasters, is not determined by the decision of the government, so this is the automation decided by the Croatian Radio Television Institute. I think these are achievements to be respected, simply it is the interest of the Croatian state, the Croatian people, that the programme is not governed by any political party. Whether history and experience is a good teacher, I think it is and in the last period was that it was about two, three, four or five years less and less of the influence of politics on the regulation of Croatian broadcasting programs, that it was less and less of an invitation to editors, journalists to shape something the way someone else wants it to be. The team's responsibility for journalists and the Croatian Television Programme Council is far greater, they cannot transfer their responsibility for ignorance, for failures, for business to neither the Croatian Parliament nor the Croatian Government, but they must look at the state of the house for themselves. With that title, it is not a problem that we are criticising a particular journalist and an individual editor but rather the problem from which positions we want to do so. Therefore, I publicly say once again that I do not want to have a greater impact on Croatian television than the average viewer of Croatian broadcasting. Of course, if we look at what the task of Croatian Radio Television comes from the Law, a valid regulation, we could talk about satisfaction or dissatisfaction, all three functions of Croatian Radio Television, but I assure you colleagues and colleagues that Croatia's broadcasting is also placed in a schizophrenic situation. Once she must respond, of course, to our requirements for public television because she has a subscription and a social task and the second time we force her to do more and more commercially, which is what we force her to do in that position. And I must in my court that it will be even more difficult, simply competition will strengthen, strengthen the competition of television programmes in Croatia's country in our country and strengthen the desire of politicians to influence Croatian television in order to sell the picture of themselves and their policy in the easiest way possible. That is why it is unusually important to give political support to the concept of neutrality of television and policy programmes, that is the difference we are having today's debate. That is why, when I appeared in the debate, I was in doubt whether to defend the principles and get a conviction that I am doing so to protect my political interest or my performance on television, of course it has nothing to do with it, it simply can't stand. It's like if I defend democratic principles and you accuse me of wanting to do something in democracy, it's nowhere in the world. So once again, it is not a problem to consider the business of financial or development of Croatian television, nor programming principles, nor criticism or praise, but the problem with the position from which they are referred, I am convinced that Croatian broadcasters and Croatian Parliament viewers fully recognize the interest of each of us when we are discussing. Therefore, Mr. Galic and the President of the Council, I hold your thumbs in your independence. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27558	Thank you very much. We have one correction to the incorrect allegations Mr. Representative Ivo Loncar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27559	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, thank you, fellow Leakey, for this last sentence, and I don't think any further discussion is necessary after this. My colleague Leco said the Programme Council is being set up by viewers, finished with a quote. Please list me at least 20 viewers in the Croatian state who have selected these 11 members of the HRT Programme Council except perhaps members of parliament from the former coalition government or perhaps from the then executive authority and, in particular, ask you to list at least three viewers who participated in the change when the former member of the council Professor Zelec went to executive power and another man came to his place. Whether it was selected by Croatian TV viewers or whether it was policy-chosen, we intend to do anything but thank you for that last sentence, after which it is increasingly clear.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27560	Thank you very much. We have a replica. Mrs. Bozica Šolić, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27561	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here, listening to the debate of Mr. Leka's colleagues, so the debate and his colleagues remained as if they had written this Report of Croatian Television, and Mr. Director sits quietly and watches and SDP defends the Croatian TV report. There is an impression in the Croatian public as if only you are satisfied with both the work and the report of Croatian television and in fact many audiences in Croatia are not actually satisfied. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27562	Thank you very much. Answer to the replica Mr. Representative Joseph Leko.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27563	Dear Representative Šolić, while pushing for the principles, I will defend them to the limits no matter what disqualifications you will use. Principles are principles and I will not give up on them, it is my request and I ask you to respect that you can make Croatian television as independent as possible from the daily policy even if HDZ or SDP are independent. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27564	Thank you very much. Next Mr. Representative Željko Pavlic, please be my guest.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27565	Ladies and gentlemen, the esteemed representatives of HRT. Let me briefly get involved in this debate, therefore, on the reports submitted. So as the debate ends, it is in fact more and more debated about the existing Law on HRT which is just to remind it passed in 2002 in the second month has not been two years since the adoption of the Law. I am the same vote for the adoption of this Law because I thought that we could solve a lot of problems that have accumulated on Croatian radio. Today I'm the same attitude. I believe, therefore, that the Law itself should not be changed and the problems that have arisen, which are therefore in the work of HRT, are the problems of implementing this Law. The implementation of this Act. So let me just say two examples in this context. The first, certainly example that here already several times will already be mentioned is the question of the educational programme. In the programming principles, it is perfectly clear that HRT and HTV products must produce or perform emissions intended for the education and education of children, youth and adults and for the emissions of scientific content. It is therefore evident that this programme is too small, it is sufficient to look at only the daily HRT programme, so in our newspaper, on the 1st and on the 2nd program there is almost no domestic quality emissions, especially no domestic production. It's actually a fun program for children who don't have a role to play to help children follow their classes, so it doesn't have any doactive function. So I can only read from the program from 8 o'clock first on the program are teletelebis, then 8.25 brum cartoon film, 8.35 animal cubs cartoon film, 8.43 detective cartoon film, 8.45 baltazar cartoon film, I think it's very good that baltazar is being broadcast. Then there's 8.55 god... A cartoon, 9 o'clock what freaks, 9.15... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] A cartoon series, etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So that's what our educational production is all about, I think it has to change as soon as possible. So I'm not happy that the facts are saying that there's actually a fall in production of this program. In fact, the report says that for the production of the programme, so for artists and documentary, in fact the programme for culture, science and education that index 2000, 2003 is in production... So neither has what was written come to pass. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I think it has to work to make that happen. Second, the second observation is also, there will be little patriotic locality and the same about one party, programming principles that say HRT must inform and educate the construction of cultural and natural heritage conservation. So, what's this about? I will take this opportunity to convey actually dissatisfaction, I don't know if Mr. Galic has received this written protest from the Association of Cultural Artistic Society in Međimurje County. First, several weeks ago, one event was held here in Zagreb and Međimurje in Lisinski. More than 10 cultural artists from Međimurje presented their works for the first time, therefore, presented the Mediterranean culture and tradition here in Zagreb, unfortunately it was not accompanied by any camera of Croatian television. There were no reports, let alone any transmissions or videos, and almost every day we have, we have festivals and easy notes, as it is already called on television that certainly don't deserve it, while one of these events deserved to be delivered, at least recorded in this context of preserving natural and cultural heritage. Next thing you know, I'd like to warn you of actually a key one, a key article, that's article 7. The law on Croatian broadcasting. So I will take the opportunity to even read it because there are many answers that have been asked questions about how journalists and Croatian television should behave so as to do their daily work. In Article 7, it is beautifully and clearly written. And I think journalists themselves should look more often or read this law especially on colleges that HRT and HTV are obliged to keep the public informed on facts, events, and phenomena abroad of public interest. Respect and encourage pluralism of political, religious and worldly and other ideas and allow the public to be familiar with these ideas. Unbiasedly process political, economic, social, health, cultural, educational, scientific, environmental and other issues, enabling equal interaction between different sources. Before publishing, check the source and content of information according to recognised standards of independent journalism. ... information and concentrates and make clear comments as a personal opinion of the author. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So this article of the Law allows journalists to do their job and therefore informative work, and this Law also enables journalists to present their comments as a personal opinion of the author. So journalists can't be and can't be just talking heads, but normally they have to be, have their own attitude, but it has to be clearly marked. Therefore, through the clear implementation of the obligations and duties set out in Article 7 of the Journalist, Employees both in HRT and HTV therefore fulfil their obligation to all citizens of the Republic of Croatia, as referred to in Article 2(2). ... public institutions of the Republic of Croatia, so all citizens. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And they also owe to their subscribers. Namely, Croatian television has a million 150 thousand subscribers, so it takes a month's subscription. And there I might have some objections also to the process itself or the process of collecting the subscription. In the very report as far as we can read, there are no major disturbances or sudden reductions in the collection of the subscription from the viewers, but yet HTV has concluded one contract with a law firm, with one law firm, so that they are legally bound by legal obligations in the event of a possible delay in some debtors. And what's going on here? I've got a procedure here that's been initiated by this law firm, a warning to the court. It's about a debt of about 200, not somewhere, exactly 290 kuna, while the cost of this notice is 124 kuna. So the cost of warning is more than a third of actually long. I don't know who's doing this right now, whether Croatian Radio or this law firm is making a lot of money on those who maybe two or three months can't pay the subscription. This is mostly about people with weaker property conditions who cannot pay a subscription at that very moment, and right behind that comes this reminder, which includes the costs of this notice. In particular, in this case that they were subscribers, they paid this fee of 299 kuna but nevertheless came up with an executive proposal in which these costs were further increased by 100 kuna, therefore, court costs and, if they want to complain, they have to pay another 100 kuna, therefore, as a right to appeal. I don't think this is correct for all those watching television, who have been paying a subscription for years and who may at some point not be ready or unable to pay that subscription, and I think you should think a little bit about what and how. Because I'm saying, in the Financial Business Report, there are no major deviations in the collection of the subscription this and some of the previous years. So, therefore, with the conclusion that it is the implementation, so the better law enforcement, and that will only lead us to meet the aspirations that we have towards Croatian broadcasting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27566	Thank you very much. And in an individual debate as last Mr. Representative Frano Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27567	I thank Mr Vice President, so I must admit that this debate today was quite interesting, that we could hear really different views on these reports that are ahead of us, so let me look back really, I will try to look back at the scale of things, I will also talk about the programming principles but also the audit report, and I will also look back at what has been heard in the discussions of various representatives from various parties. First of all, in terms of programming principles, one of the main programming principles is that emissions intended for the education and education of children, young people and adults and the emissions of scientific content should be produced or published. Under the new scheme, unfortunately the educational programme has been reduced to about 15 minutes a day. I will take this opportunity, I will take advantage of the opportunity as a representative of a group of young people, who come from an art mile, to talk about artistic education, the address and directorship of television and the programming council and also to the Croatian public. I suspect that anyone here from the MPs, except perhaps some super-informed knows one thing about the recent European competition held in Dubrovnik by Petrok Cek and Srdjan Bulat that they won first prizes. I think that probably no one in this assembly but me knows who these young people who won first prizes in a European competition held in Dubrovnik. Only two short information has been published in the information programme, which we thank them for the prestigious European competition that is most respected after the Eurovision competition for young musicians will be held in Dubrovnik. Not a mention of the achievements of young people in Croatia who can be a role model to their generation. Of course, there was unfortunately no tone of the final concert where these young musicians performed, where they performed works by Croatian composers who wrote special works on this occasion to be performed by foreign artists, or young artists, who will be harassed tomorrow, let's say, on stage around the world. That's exactly what this is about. Only the winners of the national competitions of the Member States could take place in the competition. So, the winners from Germany, Austria, etc., Europe etc. So these young people have long been in Europe, they lead our society by their activities in Europe. However, they are unfortunately neither mentioned nor at all... in the way they should have been treated. It's something that's worrying. Why? Because we fight every day with negative phenomena in society, especially among young people, when we talk about drugs, when we talk about deviating behavior, and these very young people, these young musicians, young dancers, anyone I talk about, they can certainly be a role model to their generation. These are young people who usually go to two schools. They attend elementary or high school, or some college, and go parallel with it to art schools, which means they don't have any free time, that they're dedicated, completely devoted to their calling and love for what they're doing. And do they really believe in the Programme Council that it's not worth the attention. Unfortunately, such an impression is gained, and I would ask, in particular, the director to see in what way this population is more present in the program. Similarly, I find it equally important to point out that a concrete educational program has lost those terms in which young people, students, students could follow these programs. Why? Because they're usually education programs in hours when they can't track it because they have school obligations. So, in the mornings most often on the second programme and in this sense everyone should make some changes, and you should see how they actually help them with that education without talking about adult education and everything that is needed through the programming principles that are very clearly laid down by the HRT Act to do in this area. Here I just gave one, one piece of action that could be better. Now I'm going to look back on the review report. In fact, I've actually asked you all my questions, so I'm asking the directorship and the public what would happen to one of the executives, for example. Some mayor, mayor, the head of the municipality acts in the same way as did some people who are responsible for Croatian television and public procurement. Let's just say what would have happened if some mayor in a county had made public procurement of more than 200 thousand kunas without publishing a public tender. Would the same medium that we are talking about today, Croatian television, consider it an interesting case, for example for information, for an informative show and whether it would also publish it as one of the major irregularities in the work of that executive government representative. I personally think you would. I personally think that even if such a case were to be presented as possible corruption, it would be presented as possible corruption because no public procurement for the purchase of goods has been announced. There is a law on public procurement, therefore it is known exactly how the law is called and when, in which cases, a public tender is called. So, if one of the mayors, regardless of which mayor, were it the mayor of the SDP or was the mayor of HDZ or the mayor of the HNS or, therefore, what would that same medium we're talking about today? I may have provoked an additional debate with this, but I find it inadmissible, and here we see in particular that from the review report that it keeps repeating itself. So I'm interested in what the actual directorship has done to avoid such cases in the future completely, that is to say, not to repeat them again. It also seems to me that the measure of things is that we should ask a question and that we should get an answer about how educated people who work on Croatian television are, because I think that is also the problem. I'm not sure that there are people in all the responsible places who need to have a certain expertise. So that's the question in which people are employed, whether they match those positions in which they are, in which they work, whether they have the right professional equipment. Unfortunately, my colleague Kapraljevic is not here, and I wanted to look back at his statement when he talked about ZAMP and HUZIP obviously does not know the standards, and obviously he does not know the Copyright Act, so then he speaks completely unsuspectingly about the subject, and I have to get up here to protect all those who create, who are really creators, and I really don't think he should be asking questions at all about the Law, the Law of ZAMP and HUZIP, associations that care about that this performance and copyright protection in accordance with the best standards of both Europe and the world. As for the debate we could hear about the Program Council. There was a very interesting observation of our colleague, colleague Caine, when he stepped up on behalf of the club, who said, "Yes, now the opposition is in advantage, because she put most of the Programme Council." Those were his words, and I quote his words, because I remembered them well and wrote them down. It's a very interesting observation. So the opposition is in advantage because while she was in position, she set up most of the members of the Programme Council, and now don't you ever think of touching something like that, I see that the air-conditioned colleague Caine, that's very interesting. So when we're in a position to set something up and don't let anyone touch it anymore, because it won't be our will, will it? So it's a sacred thing not to be touched. I also come up with one question asked by Mr Vujic, who said it was even questionable whether it was good to discuss it in the Parliament, about, brought our debate in the Parliament under question. We certainly need to discuss everything, including the HRT report. Why don't we discuss it? I mean it's the jurisdiction of the absolute parliament and when he talked about the laws again he mentioned that it was a super law only his two articles weren't very great.../Speakers speak out loud, they don't understand./...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27568	Finish it, it's been a while.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27569	We've passed that law and, like, let's not touch it. Well, we're the legislative authority. Does that mean you want to abolish the legislative authority?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27570	Thank you very much, Mr. Representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27571	Does that mean that? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27572	We have five minutes on behalf of the SDSS Club Mr. Representative Milorad Pupovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27573	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Chief Director and President of the Programme Council, colleagues and colleagues. I answered to say something that should last much shorter than 5 minutes about one thing I spoke about at the Committee on Human Rights and Rights of the National Communities, which, along the way, mentioned a colleague of HSP Kovacevic. If there's anyone else, and I haven't heard, because I wasn't in the hall, I apologize. It's about the next one. I'm saying, I thought I'd just talk about it, but listening to the rush, I decided to say one more thing. It's probably the wrong decision, but I'm gonna follow her one by one. As regards the possibilities for the realisation of the Croatian Radio and Croatian Television programme, we must regrettably conclude that technological assumptions have not been created for it in the space of the entire Republic of Croatia. Namely, I suppose that it could have been experienced by each of us driving by car, bus or anything else from Zagreb towards the sea, either once or by another road, when on one of the 100km of Zagreb, it already has difficulty with the signal for the 1st program of Croatian Radio, and the fact that on that road which is not particularly populated, the local radio station is almost gone. We have radio Gospić recently or I don't know when, but other radio stations between Karlovec and Knin don't practically have any. They are not, unfortunately, from Una to Gospić. And with the fact that the signal of the 1st Croatian Radio programme is not heard, or that it is lost or dimmed, or that I won't say distracted, but because of the large number of other radio stations from neighbouring countries, the fact is that under such circumstances neither the existing scheme nor the existing obligations can actually be fulfilled. The same can be said, of course, for other parts of the country where it is also impossible to hear the Croatian Red signal, and there are parts in which it is not possible to receive a Croatian television signal. And I considered it necessary to say something about it here, because it's the first assumption under which we can discuss what the Programme Council has to do with it. The fact is that we have not created assumptions that the signal of these national channels can be heard anywhere, and that every citizen of ours can receive them is something to go from. And now I'm going to say something that I'm actually probably smarter to keep quiet about. But I'm not sure I can, so I'll say next. By listening to the debate, you can't take the impression that the best conclusion would actually be this: We are 152 here, in the year is 365 days, it would be actually the best and the most fair if each of us would get two days each to edit the Croatian Radio and Croatian Television programme, and the difference, on weekends, that those who are particularly prominent in the editorial problem, to assign it to them. Not to name them here now. Because I really think we're out of line. We act about like fans in football or basketball. Everyone knows the best composition that should win and that best plays for national selection and we're allowing ourselves something that we couldn't allow anywhere or anywhere at all, even when we're calling for professionalism. Our profession, ladies and gentlemen, does not allow us to do this. And the debate in the Croatian Parliament on this is not about us having objections to individual shows, unless they are drastically in conflict with the Constitution, the Law and the Programme. And we use it here to show this or that wish, this or that party membership. So the representatives of the former government, Ministers of Ivica Racana, two months after they came to power, began to complain about how Croatian radio and television actually obstructed them, not to say anything else. And we... Maybe later, Hansel. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Yeah.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27574	This is not the intended form of communication.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27575	And you're here?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27576	Yeah, I'm here, yeah. I'm always here.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27577	In any case, I think the debate on this subject should be freed even these topics as many opposition as there are authorities. Anyone who comes to power comes with the possibility of having influence and having privileges. Well, if he still had the privilege of having a positive opinion of himself in advance, no one could possibly count or count. And this Parliament can't let anyone do that.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27578	Thank you. And distinguished representative Petar Selem, on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Club, five minutes of debate, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27579	Mr. President, gentlemen of the Croatian Radio Television, very short. I just have to realize that I was a little surprised, and for moments, maybe even more than that during the debate that took place here today. I think he was absolutely legitimate and that is why we are discussing the programme report of each of us here to give its opinion in the global programme of Croatian Radio Television. It's not about arguing about one, the other or the third show, about one or the other minute, two minutes, three minutes, but giving our opinion and our position on global programming orientation. That's why this report was filed and that's why we're here. Therefore, I think that I would say that even the nervous steps that went towards challenging the right to any debate with a particular thought that the team is jeopardising the freedom and independence of Croatia's readiotelevision, I think they can at least use Croatian radio television, because the creation of an artificial sanitary cordon in the other direction towards Croatian radio television can only harm it. I think any remarks relating to a programme that is justified, founded and not partial in terms of why my party received 2 minutes, and this other 3, I think any such remark can be useful for Croatian radio television. And there would absolutely be fenced by constant anxiety and constant attempts to actually disable the debate that is at stake. Clearly, the thought that our opinion, each of us, is private, reminds me a little of what we used to be, when religion was spoken, is the private thing of every man, so now he's at home praying to God, but not out there. My attitude is what it is. He is not exhausted by me being home with my wife and my children talking about it, but as a representative of a number of people who have chosen me, I believe I have the right to express this attitude here, repeating myself to the fullest extent that this attitude should be partially colored and petty in terms of why you and not us, why we, and not you. In that sense, I think that this discussion was only useful to the extent that indeed the Croatian radio television has given constant suggestions, constant warnings, consistent proposals that can only be useful to its programme. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27580	Thank you very much. Please Mr. Zdenko Jelak, president of the Croatian Radio Television Programme Council for a brief final review.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27581	Mr. President of the Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Listen, I have to admit, I didn't expect to, and I don't have the experience of sitting in one place and listening to different opinions, but I'm going to try and get along and say at the end and a few words about the Council's position. By listening to the presentations of all MPs there were critical tones, which is perfectly understandable and we as members of the Programme Council act in the same way or treat the programme staff in charge of the work of the Croatian Broadcasting Programme. I assure you that this position has already been shown somewhere in the 4th month of this year when the programme scheme came before the Council members where all the members of the Council were present, namely I think there were 10 of us, all 10 unanimously refused the programming scheme because we realized that it was not complete and we realized that it had to be much better and different. After that, it was still a TV leadership that had a temporary function. After that, a new programme scheme was chosen, which was accepted in the 9th month for the period from 9th to 3rd2005, is quite another one that was offered. This software scheme has been accepted with...... Program scheme, yeah. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Accepted with an indication of a public, open indication that they will be monitored, that they will be criticised and that they will be sought if in practice it is not what it is intended to be, that changes will also be sought, or changes. There is the Programme Council completely on our own and we are not exactly the best co-workers of Croatian TV management. I will remind you that the Programme Council has also requested some additional audits, that the Programme Council has requested a report on the use of funds under the 10% law for production outside the house, so what the law requires. So in this part we want to end up doing this, and we behave, implementing the Law on Croatian Radio Television. How pleased a person is with the work of the Council, unfortunately, is a personal attitude. I haven't heard from everyone in particular since the club exposure, I haven't heard that the Council has committed some kind of violation, that it has committed a crime, that it has done something that the law doesn't allow. But I think that's good, so I estimate, that it's a good thing that it's just that the work of the Council doesn't have any influence on any political party. As the councils elected in the last term, you know that, Parliamentarians chose us, they knew by name who he was, who he was doing, what he was doing, what he was doing, etc. We can't talk about whether there's a conflict of interest or not, whether someone's an actor, a publisher, a director of a theater, etc. It is known in the Parliament from the biographies that were before you. I assure you that there is no conflict of interest among the members of the Council, and the members of the Council themselves have asked for that provision of conflict of interest to be entered in the statute, and that is exactly what we will end up being very strict in the application of that 52nd member of the Statute of the Croatian Radio Television. This is a great experience, a valuable experience. All the remarks that have been heard here have mostly gone to the Council's programme and they seem to me more to me to go to what is happening at this point or what is happening in the last few months. We gave the report for seven months from 2003 and half of 2004. I assure you it was a very painful period of work by the members of the Council, and if you want me, I think you are all aware that it was too much of the responsibility of the Council to choose, to do something that the Parliament had done before, to choose the leadership of Croatian broadcasters. We have done so in full compliance with all the laws and I think that the next report of the Council that it will give, must and should contain a part, i.e. a maximum part, relating only to the programmes that the Council is monitoring. The Council of Croatian Radio Television, the Programme Council has contacts with the public via a television portal. We are all networked to all remarks that come from ratings to viewers' objections. All members of the Council are given daily as a report and this is one of the bases in which we are then opening the debate and discussing it on the Council. The second part of the public contact is as personal as you MPs have personal contacts, and the third kind of public contact just for three days at the Council that was called for Monday next, will be that the Council will use its business ability to nominate, or appoint one key of people who, experts who will deal with different programming areas and will be one major self-port to members of the Council to cooperate in another broader and more autonomous way, i.e. represent the public. There have been several speeches here, I have written and recorded, all these remarks that have been made here I will sketch them and set them up on Monday to let the members of the Council know those who have not had the opportunity to watch, convey and tell them what they are talking about and in what way they talked about the work of the Council. I am here all the time talking about the work of the Programme Council, not the work of Croatian Radio Television. It's two bodies. Finally, I would like to say that a very correct cooperation has been well established between the Council, the Programme Council and the Governing Council, the correct cooperation in the interests of the good programme and the interests of the viewers. Here's a little short, I don't think I could have been shorter. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27582	Thank you very much, Mr. Lefty. I would like Mr Mirko Galic's head director for the final review. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27583	Thank you, Mr. President. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen, for welcoming in such a large number the end of the debate on Croatian broadcasting. It's a good thing we're not tired...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27584	Maybe there's another reason.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27585	Let me just answer some of the key points of view that have been shown here and that because of the shortness of time and interest that exists, I know that for the continuation of this session, I leave many questions that I might be able to answer for some other debate or perhaps for a written form that I will use and answer every question that is asked here. It is understandable that when it comes to the Croatian TV programme, there are different opinions. There are also the most common ad hoc group that would be found on the street, at the store, at the game, at the concert, at the theater, TV is always the subject of slowness. It causes a normal dispute between different tastes of interest and desire if political motives are added to it, which cannot be avoided in a debate like this, then we get about the result we saw today. We may have received some commendations lightly, perhaps undeserved, but I must also say that some criticisms have also been given unworthy and unilaterally. The truth is we deserve both criticism and praise. That some things, some processes on Croatian Radio and Croatian TV have gone in a positive direction and as far as the program is concerned and business and about the transformation of the house, and that we have also had failures and inconsistencies and errors and non-professionalism, this is undeniable. We're discussing it more openly than you do because we know things better, but we're not one-sided. We know how to distinguish what is good, which leads in the right direction from what is not good and what we have to change and correct. I'd like to see our work in that style and especially our program. It's true that there's unprofessionalism, but I wouldn't, I used that term and that grade, but I wouldn't say it was some endemic phenomenon. That it is a law, it is an exception that confirms the rule of working to raise professionalism and to work on that in a free, independent environment, in an environment that is favourable we respect as many laws, professions and professionalism as possible. If we define professionalism beyond profession and non-professional criteria, politically or otherwise, we will get a bad result. I'd pray we don't go that way. It's the same thing is one of the big topics that's been repeated here over and over again, the relationship between public and commercial content. We have a new situation on the Croatian television market. Croatian broadcasting ran out of transmitters and connections, part of the problems that were being talked about here, probably stem from that, but not just from that. We have Croatian television with two channels of earth broadcasting. We have two strong competitive commercial televisions. We couldn't continue as though commercial television was gone, as if there was an unchanged situation on the market and we were monopolies. We would experience the same blows that have been experienced by public television in some countries, including neighbouring countries, Slovenia, Hungary, Slovakia, and I will not talk about the countries of the former Yugoslavia. Croatian TV, Croatian TV is strong, strong, powerful, stable and quality compared to them. We are all trying together, you with your criticism, but also with support, and we, with our work to keep it from questioning the position of Croatian broadcasters. It is true, and I accept all those criticisms that have warned that there is a need to strike a balance between public content that is characteristic of public national television and commercial content that cannot be avoided. There is no public television in Europe today that has not changed its programme, which in its contents does not take and develop more and more programs that are calculated to raise the level of view because the level of influence is tied between the other and the level of view. That is why we are tasked with establishing a balance that can be questionable or that can be centered differently in any case. As far as business is concerned, it was subject to minor interest, I would say that Croatian broadcasting in this respect is satisfied and I think that you could, if you read carefully and with good intention this report, also find reasons for satisfaction. Because only in the last year that has been the subject of this Development Report have we invested more than 200 million kunas of our own resources without State aid and without borrowing from banking or other financial institutions or suppliers. Croatian TV and Croatian radio are almost fully digitized at the centre of Prisavlje. We are working to expand the digital drive to all our centers outside Zagreb. In two years, and it will be over. The Croatian radio received digital reporting vehicles first after 25 years. Croatian TV 2, satellite digital vehicle. We completed 3 studies that began 10 years ago and where we worked on the system sometimes from the paint frame to have to collapse at night to build in the day because it was badly done and from there we had to bypass all the obligations of the Public Procurement Act because unexpected situations were emerging that forced us to take the shortcut. It is not our goal to ignore our legal obligations and procedures, which are laid down by law and other legally applicable documents. Therefore, I ask that the Croatian Parliament, both as founder and as owner, and also as the most interested body in Croatia, should respect the fact of the positive stable business of Croatian broadcasting and to support it on its own side. It's not for us to decide which way it's going to be. And finally, the audit. The audit is regular in these 5 or 4 or 5 years. The financial audit has audited every one of our reports, the audit is subject to every contract, not just the one over 10 million that can be available to each of you here to check it out, but every contract. I don't sign any contracts without the consent of an audit, an internal audit that has been introduced now at this age and that has never existed before. We want as clean a business as possible. I'm not saying there are no mistakes like there are in the program that are visible. Probably, there must be some in the business that are less visible to you, and to me too, but the general tendency seems to be positive with all the problems that are still waiting for us and the obligations that we have to make. I hope that many of the ideas that are given here today will be inspirational and program management and business leadership of the house to correct what is not bad, to complete what is good and that next year, no matter what role, there will be a year in which fewer questions will be asked, and to give more positive answers. Thank you again very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27586	Thank you very much to the director of HRT, Mr. Mirko Galic. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27587	And finally we have just one more, the report on the work of the HRT Council and on the implementation of the programming principles and obligations established by the Law on HRT and Croatian Radio Programmes in the period from 14 November 2003 to 30 June 2004. Report by the Directorate on the operation of HRT in 2003 and the report of independent audits, audits of financial reports carried out for 2003. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposals of the working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: 1. The report on the work of the HRT Council and on the implementation of the programming principles and obligations set out in the Law on Croatian Radio and Croatian Television Programmes for the period from 14 November 2003 to 30 June 2004 shall be taken into account. 2. The report of the Directorate on the business of Croatian Broadcasting in 2003 is received. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? I find that with 78 votes for and 3 abstentions, the proposed conclusion has been accepted. We still have the conclusion of the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities, which reads: The CROAT Programme Council is in charge of adapting the content and structure of the reports submitted to the Croatian Parliament to the law of the established obligation to report to the Croatian Parliament, Article 19(3), in conjunction with Article 5. HRT law. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Restraint? I find that the proposed conclusion was adopted unanimously with 81 votes. There is another conclusion of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget which reads as follows: It undertakes the Croatian Directorate to make a written statement of failures and irregularities identified in the Report of Independent Audit and to draw up a plan of necessary measures with a view to removing it, and secondly: The State Inspectorate undertakes to exercise control in the HRT in respect of the compliance and application of labour and employment regulations. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Restraint? I find that the proposed conclusion was adopted with 81 votes for, unanimously. Representative Ivo Loncar, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27588	Mr. President, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and Article 17, I would ask you on behalf of the Parliament to ask the Croatian Radio Television to answer all my questions that I asked them yesterday. So I ask you to do so within the scope of Article 17, and as part of Article 16, they are obliged to do so, so I would ask you as President of the Parliament to warn them about business opportunities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u27589	If this is in line with the Rules of Procedure, I suppose it is, then I will also send a corresponding letter to the Directorate and Head of Croatian Radio Television.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u30210	Let's move on to elections, appointments and resolutions, please the chairman of the board, Mr. Glavas, to explain the committee's proposals.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u30211	Thank you very much, Mr. President. First, I would suggest that Mr Frano Piploić be elected as a member of the Committee on War Veterans of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u30212	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. Please, let's get on with it. I am voting on the proposal for a decision to elect a member of the Committee on War Veterans of the Croatian Parliament, Mr Frana Piplojic. Please vote. Score. I find that with 100 votes for, 3 abstentions, without objection, Mr. Frano Piploić has been elected member of the Croatian Parliament's War Veterans Committee. Here you go, Mr. Head.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u30213	The next proposal is a proposal for a decision on the election of the Ombudsman. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia is an attorney-general of the Croatian Parliament which protects the constitutional and legal rights of citizens in proceedings before the state administration and bodies with public authority. The Croatian Assembly is elected by the Ombudsman in time of 8 years, and the conditions for selection, execution, delirquency and mode of operation of the Ombudsman and his deputies are governed by law. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Law on the Public Attorney, the General's Attorney-General, elects and resolves the Croatian Parliament. The occupier is elected in time of 8 years and may be re-elected. In accordance with Article 16 of the Treaty on the The Law on the Public Prosecutor's Attorney-General may be elected by a Croatian citizen, a graduate lawyer with at least 15 years of legal experience in the legal profession that has been pointed out in this profession and who is known in the field of protection of human rights other than the public. So far, the Ombudsman has sent a letter to the President of the Croatian Parliament and to the President of the Committee on Elections, Appointing and Administrative Affairs of the Croatian Parliament on 16 April 2004 informing them of the termination of the term of office by force of the law, since he was elected and entered into office on 28 June 96 and expired his term of office on 28 June 2004. Given that the eight-year-old election day and acting on duty, the vacancy attorney-in-law stands out, it does not need to be resolved. At the 6th session held on 26 May 2004, the Board of Elections, Appoints and Administrative Affairs of the Croatian Parliament discussed these circumstances and concluded that it was in the implementation of the Law on the Ombudsman and in relation to Article 91(3). The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament shall make an invitation to submit a proposal for the selection of the Advocate General. The call shall be made within 15 days of the day of the publication of the call for applications. The call was published in "The Evening List" since 2 June 2004 and in "The People's Newspaper" since 2 June 2004. In accordance with the publication of the invitation of the Board of Elections, Appoints and Administrative Affairs of the Croatian Parliament, the following proposals for the selection of the Ombudsman were received. This is: Mr. Željko Thür, a graduate lawyer, deputy, former deputy attorney of the police; Ms. Marta Vidaković-Mukić, graduate lawyer also; Mr. Nikola Muslin graduated lawyer and senior expert advisor at the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship and Mr. Ante Klarić, graduate lawyer, former staff attorney. All candidates shall comply with the conditions set out in Article 16. The law of the Attorney General. The selection, appointment and administrative work of the Croatian Parliament at the 15th session held on 18 November, so yesterday, it discussed those proposals and pursuant to Article 91(3) of Article 118(2) and Article 244. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament and in conjunction with Article 3. The Law on the Ombudsman with 6 votes in favour and 2 abstentions established a proposal for a decision with an explanation to be submitted to the Croatian Assembly, so that Mr Zeljko Thür, a graduate lawyer, was elected to the Ombudsman on 1 December 2004. As an additional argument, given that during today's day, a copy of some of the texts of the daily press has appeared in this assembly, from two years ago, trying to compromise the candidate for the Ombudsman, Mr Zeljko Thür, with allegations that he had committed or insinuated any criminal acts, I have sent a letter to the Ministry of the Interior during today's afternoon, where I have requested a reply from the relevant institution, whether any criminal proceedings have been conducted against Mr Thüra, or whether any criminal charges have been filed, to which I received a negative response where I have clearly and unequivocally stated that the criminal proceedings against Mr Thüra are not being conducted and that no criminal proceedings have been brought against Mr Thür. So I think it's necessary that you get information about how to give an immediate answer to any questions that are going to be asked here. Therefore, the candidate of the Committee on Elections and Appointment fulfils the full conditions for the post of Advocate General of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u30214	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Vice-President Ms. Djurdja Adlesic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u30215	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'm looking for a break on behalf of the HSLS and DC Club for further consultation on the appointment election.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u30216	Thank you. HSU, go ahead. Honorable representative of Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u30217	Your Honor, I'm also asking for a 15-minute recess for further consultations.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u30218	Okay. Dear Representative Miroslav Rosic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u30219	Thank you very much, Mr. President-in-Office of the Parliament. We're looking for a break too.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u30220	Your Honor, thank you. Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u30221	Also, 10 minutes is enough.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u30222	Dear Representative Milorad Pupovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u30223	On behalf of the SDSS Club, Mr. President, we're also looking for a 15-minute break.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u30224	Dear representative Milanka Opačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u30225	On behalf of the SDP Club, I've been looking for a break for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u30226	Dear Representative Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u30227	On behalf of the club, I'm looking for a 15-minute break.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u30228	Dear representative Ljubica Lalić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u30229	On behalf of the Croatian Peasant Party Club and we are looking for a 15-minute break because this is really something new. This proposal for a decision we got on the bench today. The largest number of MPs could not collect information and the largest number of MPs actually do not know about the proposal and therefore we ask for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u30230	Thank you. Dear Representative Jozo Radoš on behalf of the Club Libre.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u30231	On behalf of the Club of Representatives, I am also looking for a 15-minute break.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u30232	Dear Representative Luka Bebić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u30233	... [[The speaker is not on, you can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u30234	Thank you. I'm setting a 15-minute break. Ladies and gentlemen, let's continue with the session. I think this will be very brief. The clubs are all parliamentary clubs asking for breaks to take their stand on the proposal of the Election and Appointing Committee on the appointment of the election of the Ombudsman. In the meantime, I have also consulted the HDZ Clubs, HSLS, DC, HSP, HSU, others, and I have not arrived, and all these clubs agree to postpone today's decision-making, and I assume that this is with other clubs, so I will use my duties from the Rules of Procedure to postpone today's decision-making and debate and vote on the election of a civil defender. I ask that the clubs agree in the coming week, debate, agree and transfer their views to the Board of Elections and Appoints, so we will postpone the decision to elect and appoint an attorney general, to find one consensus on the choice of candidates. Thank you very much. There's no need for this other one. We continue on Wednesday at 9:30 with a debate on amendments to the State budget for 2005.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u30237	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The Committee for Selection and Designation and Administrative Affairs held its session during yesterday and made a proposal for a decision to appoint a member of the Committee on Local and Regional (regional) Self-Government of the Croatian Parliament. The proposal is to appoint a representative from the city of Split, Mr. Josip Alajbeg, on this committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u30238	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the motion for a decision. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Restraint? I find that the proposal has been accepted unanimously with 81 votes. Ladies and gentlemen, the vote is over. Tuesday, moment, Tuesday we start at 9:30. Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Guarantee Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and the European Investment Bank for a project to complete the highway on Corridor 10 with the Proposal for amendments to the Energy Act, the Law on the electricity market on energy regulation and the addition of the Fire Law remains in order. I'm asking the committees to implement these draft laws on Monday so we can start with these laws on Tuesday. This afternoon, we will vote after the cabinet meeting on the amendments and on the final proposal for a Law on the Rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families continue in order. Thank you very much. I'm interrupting the session. We're still going to pick out the vacancy attorney and deputy attorney. I'd like the chairman of the selection and appointment committee, Mr Branimir Glavas, to explain the proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u30240	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, before I make the motion for a decision on the election of a civil defender, I am obliged to inform you that the candidate for the occupier of the occupier's current deputy attorney, Mr. Zeljko Thur, sent a letter of November 29th stating that he was giving up his candidacy for the above-mentioned duty. So Mr. Zeljko Thur, who was a candidate for the occupier, because of the disagreement between the part of certain club representatives at last week's session, decided to give up his candidacy, and therefore the Committee on Elections and Administrative Affairs has reconsidered the candidacy of the new candidate, so the new proposal to this High House, and has decided at today's session that Mr. Jurica Malcic, a graduate lawyer, is being proposed as a candidate for the vacancy attorney. In the event of his election, the Ombudsman’s office begins to run practically from today or on the day of this decision. Mr. Malcic was born in 1942, he graduated from Law School. From 1991 until April 1992 he was a consultant at the Office of the First Croatian President, Dr. Francis Tudjman. Since April 1992, he has been Deputy Minister of Justice and Administration. On 1 September 1992, he was appointed Secretary of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and was re-appointed to the same duty on 9 April 1993. From 1 June 1993 to 10 July 1994, he was a member of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and Minister of Administration. He was then elected Judge of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia from 11 July 1994 to 11 July 2002. During that period, he was elected twice for the Vice-President of the Constitutional Court. He published a number of professional works in the field of human rights, administrations and local self-government, he is an author and associate of research and legal projects in these areas. Otherwise, Mr. Jurica Malcic was not a member of any political party. So the Board of Selection and Appointment proposes to the Croatian Assembly to elect Mr. Jurica Malcic as the ombudsman. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u30241	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the proposal of the Committee for Elections, Appoints and Administrative Affairs to elect Mr Jurica Malcic for the Ombudsman. Please, who's in favour of this proposal? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? I find that, unanimously, with 80 votes, Mr. Jurica Malcic has been elected as the attorney general. In accordance with Article 17 of the Treaty on the [[Applause.]] The Law on the Ombudsman today will be sworn in before the Croatian Assembly by the Attorney General, Mr Jurica Malcic. The oath is given in a way that the president reads the text of the oath, and then the Ombudsman, Mr. Malcic, after being called up, says: "I swear." I will therefore read the text of the oath: "I swear that in my work I will stick to the Constitution and the law and respect the legal order of the Republic of Croatia and that I will carry out my duty in a just, honest and conscientious manner."
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u30242	I swear. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u30243	Congratulations to Mr. Jurica Malcic, a senior attorney for the trust given to him by the Croatian Parliament, and I wish him success in performing an honorable and responsible duty. And now I call on him to propose deputy staff attorneys because the occupier is only authorised under the Law on the Ombudsman to propose his deputies to elect the Croatian Parliament. The deputies are due today. Here you go, Mr. Malcic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u30244	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, the distinguished representatives of the Croatian Parliament. First of all, I thank you for your confidence and for your support that is not as evident in this Chamber as it is in consensus with the Presidency of the Parliament. This support is absolutely necessary to me because it is known that the Ombudsman is the authority of this House and that he is drawing his authority and his strength exclusively from the authority of this Parliament. I hope I don't lose that support. What I can promise is that, in addition to these words, I will try to remind the Parliament constantly that, besides large national topics, there are small individuals, and it is the institution of the "ombutsman" that should be reminded constantly of them when they meet obstacles sometimes bureaucratic, especially when they are lost in the mazes of a transitional democratic state. That's what I just wanted to say before. As the president has said, given the legal deadlines, it is my authority and my duty to propose deputies. According to the Law on the Ombudsman, the attorney general has three deputies. My proposal is for two deputies to be re-named the former deputy attorney general. So it would be a matter of a certain continuity with reminding me that this House has accepted reports and is familiar with the work of the attorney general. These are former deputies, Mr. Zeljko Thur and Mr. Branko Tinody. For the third candidate, I propose Mr Dean Palić, born on 6 August 1957 in Rijeka, graduated from the Faculty of Law at the University of Zagreb in 1985. In his former work he worked for a short time in Hydropower and then as a lawyer trainee, and from 1987 to December 2000 he worked as an editor in the "Informor" newspaper, and throughout all these years he ran both the documentary centre and edited the section "Court Practice". He also organised seminars on legal and economic issues. Since December 2000 he has been working as a legal adviser at the Croatian Law Centre, an NGO established to promote the rule of law principle and establish a rule of law where he worked on a series of projects, and he has also been the head of some projects. I don't think that's enough right now. This is a new man, given that Ms. Marta Midakovic's former deputy, Vidakovic-Mukic has given up on doing the job, so please accept the proposal. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u30245	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. Since there are three candidates, I am voting in a row: First, to elect Mr. Zeljko Thur as Deputy Attorney General. Voting to raise your hand on the proposal, please. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Restraint? I find that Mr. Zeljko Thur with 76 votes in favour and 4 abstentions has been elected Deputy Attorney General. The second candidate is Branko Tinody. Who's in favour of that choice? Thank you. Against? Restraint? I find that with 79 votes for and 1 abstention and Mr. Branko Tinodi has been elected Deputy Attorney General. And thirdly, I am voting on a proposal to elect Mr. Dejan Palic as Deputy Attorney General. Please, who's in? Thank you. Against? Restraint? I find Mr. Dejan Palic unanimously with 80 votes elected Deputy Attorney General. The text of the oath is also coming, and I'm asking Mr. Deputy Attorney General to swear an oath. I'll read the text of the oath first. I swear that I will stick to the Constitution and the law in my work and respect the legal order of the Republic of Croatia and that I will carry out my duty in a just, honest and conscientious manner. Mr. Thur. I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u30246	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u30247	Thank you. Mr. Tinody.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u30248	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u30249	Mr. Palic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u30250	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-19-0.u30251	Thank you. Congratulations to the deputy attorney general on the trust shown to them by the Croatian Parliament and I wish them success in performing an honorable and responsible duty. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, it is now on the agenda - Proposal to launch a trust issue to the member of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, Foreign Minister Miomiru Zuzul. Given that he still has one very short time of urgency to meet with the Commissioner for Enlargement of the European Union, Mr Reno, I will set a break and we will continue in 30 minutes and start the debate, and everyone will be better prepared for the debate.
