ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u18884	Mr. President, fellow Members and colleagues! The mandate-immunity commission of the Croatian Parliament discussed at the 7th session held on 14 July of this year a request for the rest of the parliamentary term, which is in accordance with Article 14. Law on election of representatives in the Croatian Parliament of the President of the Croatian Parliament was submitted by the magistrate, Neven Jurica, representative of the Croatian Parliament, by an act of 9 July 2004. As Mr. Neven Jurica was elected representative as a candidate on the list of the Croatian Democratic Union in VII. the election community The Croatian Democratic Community is in accordance with Article 12(1). The law decreed that Mr. Vlado Jelkovac, as deputy representative in that election unit, would start acting as a representative instead of a representative of the Master of Neven Jurica. The Commission has established that the law lays down the conditions for the start of the stay of Deputy Deputy Prime Minister Neven Jurica's term of office as well as the conditions for the start of the conduct of his Deputy Government of Jelkovec. In accordance with the said Mandate-Immunity Commission, after the debate was held, it unanimously proposed to the Croatian Parliament the adoption of a decision on the stay of the parliamentary mandate and the start of the conduct of the parliamentary office of the deputy representative, which states that on 15 July 2004, it had begun the rest of the parliamentary term of office of Deputy Director Neven Jurica and that the parliamentary duty was in accordance with Article 9(2) of the Rules of Procedure. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament of 15 July 2004 began acting as Deputy Representative Vlado Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u18885	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate on the report. I'm closing the debate. I am voting in accordance with the proposal of the Mandate-Immunity Commission. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Abstained? I find it unanimous with 89 votes for the proposed decision. We're moving on to giving an attorney's oath. In accordance with Article 7. The Rules of Procedure, MP Vlado Jelkovac, will be sworn in. The oath is given in a way that the president reads the text of the oath at home and then the MP after being called up and saying "I swear.". I'll read the text of the oath. "I swear by my honor that I will exercise my duties as a representative in the Croatian Parliament knowingly and responsibly and that in my work I will stick to the Constitution and the law and respect the legal order and that they will stand up for all progress of the Republic of Croatia." Please, Mr. Vlad Jelkovc.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u18886	I swear. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u18887	Thank you. Congratulations to Vlad Jelkovec on his oath, and I wish him success in carrying out an honorable and responsible representative's duties and our former colleague, Mr. Neven Jurica, to succeed in the conduct of the same responsible duties of the Ambassador of the Republic of Croatia in the United States. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we will proceed with the session's work. - Final draft law implementing the Constitutional Court decision of the Republic of Croatia since 12 May 1998, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 140. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and when establishing the agenda, we accepted the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of this law. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure unites the first and second readings of the law. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, Labour, Social Policy and Health. You received the reports at the session. I ask the Minister of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship Branko Vukelic to further explain the proposal. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u18889	Thank you, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. Here is the final draft law implementing the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia's decision of 12 May 1998. A very short law if we look at the number of articles, only 7 articles, but a very important law that regulates this area and this problem that has been talked about a lot all these years, and which, in fact, here is not until this day, has finally experienced one of its solutions and a proposal, as is now in this final draft law on the implementation of the Constitutional Court's decision. The purpose of the proposed law is to compensate the beneficiaries of pensions, in accordance with the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia of 12 May 98, and the compensation would be carried out as part of a special investment fund that would be established for this purpose and whose members would be the beneficiaries of pensions, which would have shares in that fund. The establishment and operation of this fund would be regulated by a special law, in accordance with the rules on investment funds in the Republic of Croatia, and this law would be found on your benches in September this year. The proposal for this law precisely regulates the circle of persons who would have the right to compensation under this law as well as the circle of users to whom this law does not apply. The law also regulates the way in which compensation is calculated. As elements of the calculation, the amount of monthly age, early age, disability pensions belonging to the pensioner in the period from 1 September 93 to 31 December 98 and the monthly amount of pension that would have belonged during that period would have been taken into account if the pension had been aligned with the movement of salaries of all employees in the Republic of Croatia. So, during that period, it is known to everyone, pensions were only partially coordinated and, therefore, that difference would be to that total harmonisation of the subject and the compensation. The calculation of the difference would be taken from the amount paid under specific laws from 95 to 2000 which were in the role of increasing pension incomes. On the established difference that would have had to be established within a year by the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute, compensation on behalf of interest and the established difference and compensation on behalf of interest would also be the basis for determining the initial assets of a specific fund and for determining the share of each pensioner in accordance with a specific law establishing a specific fund. It is important to stress that the rights of the proposed law can be exercised by beneficiaries of pensions paid on the day this law enters into force and that the case of death of the users who have therefore achieved this right by virtue of this pension law may, therefore, have the right to this pension as heirs to the first succession order. The law sets out the deadlines for the execution of obligations, and that is one year from the date of entry into force of this law. And what is important to say, special means for implementing this law of the state budget are not necessary. Therefore, the model of pensioner compensation is related to the establishment of this fund and the introduction into that fund of shares of individual companies, companies or real estate. What would go to the burden of the fund is, the costs of the administration and the accounts that the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute will carry out on its own. Therefore, for each pensioner, an exact difference should be established which is then its share or share in this fund. The estimate of these costs is about nine million kunas. Therefore, the costs of the administration, given that a large number of pensioners who need to be individually, I repeat, are to calculate this difference. Here, I think this law is particularly important and I propose on behalf of the Croatian Government that the Parliament also confirm and make a decision on the adoption of this final law implementing the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia. That, I repeat, would solve a problem that has been going on for years. And I would say, that would also result in fair compensation for all those pensioners who did not receive a pension in line with the average salaries in the Republic of Croatia during the period from 93 to 98 and thus came into a socially unequal position, or were compensated for the difference in pension for the whole period. Here, so short on this law. I repeat once again, a law that is very important and which is the Croatian Government, this Croatian government has succeeded in agreeing with and with the pensioners to find a model that indeed this one big problem that lasts for many years is a quality solution and, above all, to the satisfaction of the pensioners and that this one compensation to this model is done in this way a fair compensation in these coming years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u18890	Thank you, Minister. Do the committee's reporters want to see it? Legislative Committee, Chairman of the Committee on Labour, Social Policy and Health? Representative Marko Turic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u18891	Your Honor, Mr. President, the secretary of state, the esteemed MPs and MPs. The Committee on Labour, Social Policy and Health held at the 12th session of the Committee on 13 July 2004 discussed the draft law implementing the Constitutional Court decision of the Republic of Croatia from 12 May 1998 with the Final Proposal of the Law, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the President of the Croatian Parliament by an act of 8 July 2004. The Committee discussed the law as a home working body in accordance with Article 75. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. Following the opening explanation of the applicant's representative, the Committee members supported the adoption of this law implementing the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia since 12 May 1998 as a law which is significant for the material situation of pensioners and their social security under the pension system. The proposed law constitutes a continuation of efforts to remove irregularities in the calculation of pensions incurred between 1993 and 1998, as well as the consequences resulting from this. It stressed that the standard of pensioners in relation to the standard of employees was in constant decline. In particular, since the pension period was partially aligned towards the movement of nominal salaries of all employees, resulting in an increasing lagging of the average pension compared to the average salary. The proposed solutions, the Committee members say, are necessary because all measures so far taken to implement the Constitutional Court decision are not sufficient to remove differences in the level of pension of individual generations. This Law proposes a way of compensation that is sustainable in the system of generation solidarity and thus achieves generational solidarity and social justice. It is particularly noted that debt or compensation is first mentioned. In the current measures only indirectly indicated, therefore, an important step has been taken in individualising access as the only possible proper way to determine compensation for each individual pensioner. With this approach, it is possible to remove the proportions between the amount of pensions belonging to the users from September 1993 to December 1998 and the pensions actually paid from 1993 to today. The removal of these reasons is in line with the economic development of the state, and the principles of equality, social justice and the rule of law. After the discussion, the members of the Committee have unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament for the adoption of the Law implementing the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia since 12 May 1998 in the text proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u18892	Thank you very much. I'm opening up the debate. On behalf of the Club HNS PGS esteemed representative Antun Kapraljevic and Dragutin Lesar share the time.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u18893	Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Here is what is said today, and in the opening statement, we need to precisely determine the debt to the pensioners. I'll tell you exactly how accurate this is later, and I'm glad that in the established debt we won't look at the glass ball anymore and bring educational methods of calculation, so that debt will no longer be walked from 20 billion kuna to 70 billion kuna, but we'll calculate the actual debt that the state owes to our pensioners, which is due to the famous situation when pension pensions did not follow the salary growth. But what's still a rather strange situation here is that we continue to use that glass ball in the calculation of interest, because here we've been looking at the glass ball and we've determined that interest is 2.3 billion kuna, so it reminds me again of the educational method, so let's say it's from the eye so much that we agree to such interest. However, the fact is that this Law will support the HNS and PGS club to individualise this debt and every pensioner will know exactly how much the state owes him and the state will know how much this debt is and how much pensioners have to pay. However, we have invested on this debt calculation a single adjective because the application of the wrong calculation of valorisation coefficients has led to a 38% difference, and we believe that the calculation for pensioners who retired from 1 January 95 to 98 is not correct because, on the basis of the correctly calculated valorisation coefficients, a new initial pension should be established and all pensions from 1 September 93 to 31 December 98 should be aligned with the growth of the average net salaries of all employees in Croatia and only thereafter should the debt be calculated for each individual pensioner. And because this amendment of ours corrects that mistake that has been put into the law, I hope you will all support that amendment. What, though, is controversial? It is disputed that we will not calculate the debt for the re-exploitation of what is looking at the ball in an educationally speaking figure we will not calculate the debt for 360 or 300 thousand dead pensioners who died in that perimeter and some will likely be so fortunate or those accidents to leave today, and before we declare this Law they will not have any right to debt. I know you'll say they can't even have the right to inherit a pension, but this isn't about inheriting a pension here it's about a debt that's real and it's about that debt having the right to get those who were bad luck. If not them, and they can't, then their heirs, which is why I find this calculation to include those who were bad luck. Because the whole time they lived, they took small pensions and helped their family, helped their children, helped their parents to survive that period by receiving the kind of pension they were taking. I therefore consider that, just as this debt is subsequently defined, it is possible to inherit in Article 5 that the heirs of the first inheritance order may also inherit this debt which should be calculated on those dead should be inherited by the heirs of the first order. And now we come to the point where we determine how much each pensioner needs to get from the state, when we determine how much of the debt the government is asking for the founding of the Fund. However, before the fund is established in any case, there is another very questionable thing that is proposed here in the Law, and I don't understand how negotiators didn't take care of it because it was necessary to allow pensioners to choose, to choose in which way they wanted to be paid. It means whether they want money, whether they want company shares, whether they want bonds. I know that many will accept the shares, but it would be fair and I believe that it would be more concrete if it were to go to bonding and to pay off in cash. Because some of the pensioners will want to get the money as soon as possible anyway. I suggest that that bill as it says in the Law that they will receive the bill, I suggest that instead of the billing, they get the solution, because they have the right to appeal if the calculation for pensions is not correctly calculated. In any case, they have a guarantee that this debt will be truly recognized. Some notice or some reckoning doesn't mean anything to the pensioners, we should get a solution. And with that solution, I suggest that they be asked, along the way, to make a kind of referendum, to ask them how they want to be paid. Do they want to be in money, in shares or in liabilities? And that's why we invested it in front of the HNS Club and the PGS amendment in which we're looking for a solution to be issued. And I'm sorry that the negotiators didn't consider such a variant. When we come to the question of the Fund, the Fund is quite questionable for a simple reason, which is unknown, which companies are entering that fund, in which way the fund will be formed, and it is clear to all pensioners that the companies that are entering that fund, that they used to be theirs, because they worked in them. And now they get them under debt. And that's why we'd be overjoyed if that fund did, say, INAs, HTs, electricity, water, and all those companies that guaranteed pensioners a debt. However, in this way we suspect that this fund could pass as many other funds, and what if this fund has nothing to pay the pensioners off of, is it going to be another pensioner scam? We don't want to be ominous birds, but we want to warn about the possibility that pensioners can be played this way. Please, Mr. Lesar, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u18894	Thank you very much. We've had one correction to an incorrect quote before. Dear Representative Zeljko Kurtov.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u18895	Well, my colleague Kapraljevic said that parents helped the pensioners. I wouldn't agree with that. I think only the children helped the pensioners.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u18896	Here you go, Comrade Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u18897	Thank you very much, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. With this bill on how to repay debt, the government and HDZ are trying to buy time, and fellow pensioners are trying to wipe their cheeks because of that agreement. Among the five evidences for your claim. First, don't be nervous while I'm talking, you'll have a chance at a replica. First, it's the Debt Repayment Act, but it's only one that's created because of the non-compliance of salaries in the time of 1.9. 93 to 31. 12. 98. And what about that debt that went missing from an irregular counter-conclusive salary account from last year's so-called. valorisation coefficient, at time 1.1. 95 to 31.12. 98. And that's why it didn't matter, when a man retires as much as he paid, how many internships he had, how much average wages were at the time, no criterion was there that determined the amount of pension the year in which man retired. It is stated in the explanation that this proposal and earlier disportation has been stopped. But what about the differences between 20 and 38% that were created? This law does not repay that part of the debt created between 1.1. 95 and 31. 12. 98. And in order for this to be possible for all those who have retired at that time, the new value of the initial pension should be calculated. Secondly, the pensioners will not get a settlement from the pension fund, but rather a reckoning, which is said to be inherited. This will likely be the only example in Europe that someone inherits a reckoning that does not have the possibility of a complaint or a second-degree procedure. Third, the special fund to be formed, which is the assets of the fund, who manages the fund, what is the activity of the fund and what are the rights and obligations of shareholders in that fund? What about those clues, what about that fund if we're supposed to uphold the law today? Secondly, the law goes, actually the fourth argument, the law goes now. It's a year's reckoning. The fund in the next year. And the dividend from that fund when? In five, three or eight years. Because the pensioners stayed and asked for money, not a fund, not a reckoning, and not a wait. Fifthly, colleagues from the Retirement Party gave up the requirement of harmonising pensions with the growth of average salaries to 70 per cent. And are you sure that in the application of this law there will be no interpretation that the growth of average salaries is not what statistics determine, but that someone will start to account for the growth of real wages. I don't have to prove to you what one is and what another is size. They say justice is slow, but available. Debt was created until the end of 98, 99. The Constitutional Court's decision is from 98. And now, we promise the pensioners again, maybe you'll get a reckoning, then maybe you'll get the papers, and maybe sometimes some swear if that fund doesn't fail. and if there are shares in that fund, or shares of companies that are worth something and promise profits, then why didn't we go to government bonds, where there's a guarantee that they'll get money, not a reckoning and shares? And for that reason, all those who watch and listen to this today, let them remember well, you have accounts and stock, money maybe, you don't know when. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u18898	Dear Representative Damir Cain on behalf of the IDS Club. Please, let's see some peace. It is on behalf of the HSP Club Pero Kovacevic on this list, but there is no application. Well, if you did, then. Pero Kovacevic on behalf of the HSP Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u18899	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. We're talking today about the fate of our fathers, our mothers, our grandparents, our girls, our girls, our neighbors. And what's their position? What's their position? According to the latest statistics, it takes them a year to settle the basic cost of living for 67,000 kunas. And how much of that do they make? I'll give you the information now. According to the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute, 85,000 pensioners receive an average of 322 kuna per month. 112 thousand 311 are pensioners who receive 770 kuna per month. 334 thousand 335 are pensioners who receive a thousand and 250 kuna a month. 220 thousand 473 are pensioners who receive a thousand 720 kuna a month. So, as many as they raise 12,000 a year, 13,000 kuna, and they need 67,000 kuna. On the other hand, they also support children who are unemployed. Here, that's what we're talking about today. You're left to the fact that HDZ didn't pay the pensioners back. What did you do? Nothing. You're right on that they didn't do anything, got this election. What are you doing? You only make political promises. Therefore, the situation is, and the only thing HSP has been there since the beginning was principled and consistent. /The noise in the hall. Just laugh. In 1998, HSP said it is due to pay back the pensioners one part in cash another part in bonds. And what are we...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u18900	Please, peace in the assembly. Gentlemen, let's take a look at something now. One moment, Mr. Kovacevic. Gentlemen, we have so many reported, we have an afternoon vote. Please stick to the Rules of Procedure and stick to the order or we'll continue tomorrow. Now there are a dozen corrections of incorrect allegations, practically the entire SDP club, etc. Please take care of yourself.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u18901	Let them tell it to the pensioners. I know the position of the pensioner. Feel free to give your corrections to the pensioners, both you and left and right, and what is the position of the pensioners we know well. We HSP representatives who have office days.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u18902	Gentlemen and ladies, MPs, please let the speaker say what he wants to say. Don't create an atmosphere that will lead us to continue for the next few days.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u18903	Look what the problem is. You are afraid of the voice of the public, the voice of the pensioners in this Croatian Parliament is the problem. And what you've done, nothing's done. Now let's go according to this law. The law should bear the name of the Reimbursement Act. It's not about the debt, it's about the debt, it's about the debt, it's about the debt that occurred between September 1st 1993 and 31st,1998. And imagine, that debt has not been calculated to this day. You didn't calculate it, you didn't calculate it. So give us, we'll figure out what debt it is. Debt hasn't been calculated today, and we're talking about this law that's just going to be calculated. So what people can expect when it comes to that. When it's going to come to calculating first. So let's be serious. At least we can figure out what debt it is. So it's a debt. It's not about compensation. It is a matter of maturity and of outstanding amounts of legal penalty. It's a whole other term reached and the unpaid amount. So that part is calculated and that's not your compensation, that's the debt. And therefore, the heirs of those 300 thousand poor people who died, who did not welcome their calculation of their successors are also entitled under the law of this country because it is a debt and do not limit it to the first inheritance order. It's about the debt. Debt is debt and is inherited under inheritance law and the Law of Inheritance is known how and how it is inherited. So that's the important part that we have to determine here, that's the most important part. So, all the pensioners are expecting what? To pay them back, right? To pay them back in a way that would be in money for what HSP has been at stake since the beginning with bonds and shares. And we agree that there is a fund but a fund only in terms that will cover those payments. So, that'll cover the cash, the bonds. It is known that the bond is due by day team and team and then the fund is the one that provides the necessary amount of money to pay for it. That's the word, it's another thing if a pensioner wants to take the dividend himself. It's the only real way for people, to get that part of their debt back and have a concrete solution that will ever come back to them. Now it's also an interesting legal situation for you to calculate interest here. The interest is calculated that says that it's 2.3 billion kuna, right? How to calculate interest and not calculate debt. Logic is the thing, so it's known how much debt is total and then the interest is calculated at least that's how we learned in both finance and high school, which is the interest account. Therefore, let us not use terms of compensation, limit ourselves to the first inheritance order. It's about the debt. The debt needs to be paid back. We can talk about these possibilities right here. So it's money, bonds and shares and set deadlines, set deadlines. In this way, we will contribute to the implementation of the Constitutional Court's decision. What's only good here at this point? It's good here under my law that the state finally recognizes that debt. The state means this law recognises the debt and it is good for the pensioners but the state has not yet figured out exactly how and how it will do so for each of the pensioners to get legal certainty that it will actually be done. Today it was supposed to be here and this fund law but it had to be established by this law that this fund was only a cover of meaning for the money that would be paid in cash, in bonds or shares. So, find out, in two months' time, if we're not at your disposal to determine what debt it is, we can give everyone a solution and we can make a solution that works because today a lot of people are looking at us here and we're mandatory to them and let's not use this in terms of political partying and this is how I did it because of what the HNS Club was talking about first. He was in power and he didn't do anything and now he's selling us demagogy how to do it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u18904	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, there are now the tenth from the SDP Club and the LS correction of incorrect allegations. Please, I appeal, I plead that this should come down to one reasonable measure. Dear representative Milanka Opačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u18905	Mr. President, I must correct Mr. Kovacevic's incorrect claim that the former government has done nothing and that it is now the first time that the pensioners have been admitted to debt. At the end of 2000, the previous Parliament passed a law saying in the first article that this law enforces the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia in accordance with our country's economic capabilities. According to economic opportunities, between 2001 and today, and under that law, 23 billion kunas were intended to be paid to pensioners for the next ten years, meaning 2 billion and 300 million kuna each year.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u18906	Thank you very much. Do the other representatives of the SDP Club want a correction? Yeah. Dear Representative Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u18907	I am correcting the inaccuracies of my colleague, Mr Kovacevic, which determines that nothing has been done in the past four years on the return of the pensioner's debt. Certain calculations have been made and a measure of partial repayment of the pensioner's debt has also been passed in cash by establishing a certain amount of increase. Also, on the day of the expiry of the Special Law on Supplements in Retirement, acts by the Government and the Fund were adopted to maintain that amount on behalf of the repayment of pensioners' debt. It is evident that part of the possibility is achieved and this depends on the economic power of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u18908	Thank you. Dear Representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u18909	It is incorrect, as said MP Kovacevic, that neither HDZ nor the right or left side of this assembly has done anything about it. The right-hand side has created a pension debt and this side has been returning it for 2 billion and 400 thousand kuna for the last three years plus a billion and 500 thousand kuna through the institution 100 kuna plus 6%.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u18910	Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, respected representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u18911	Mr Linic and the rest of the SDP have injured Article 209(1) and (2) and will likely later. I was saying there's no day today's debt calculation. You say there is! So where is he?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u18912	They did not harm the respected representative Kovacevic You made one claim, these MPs knocked that claim down, so it's not about hurting the Rules of Procedure. [[/Intruder: How did they not hurt?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u18913	And why are we passing the Law on... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u18914	Honorable representative Dragica Zgrebec, correcting the incorrect allegations. ... Please. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Mr. Kovacevic, I run the session properly. [[Intruder: So you give the lead session properly.]] You have made certain claims that other MPs have kept incorrect and correct. And don't insult me. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u18915	It is incorrect that so far nothing has been done on the return of debt to the pensioners. After a little while in the Peace Law, 100 kunas were paid plus 6%. In 2000, a Law bearing a date of 8 December called the Retirement Law was published to remove differences in the level of pensions achieved in different periods. The first article of this law calls for a decision of the Constitutional Court and in the second article is determined over a period of time to which an increase in pension should take place and amounts from 17 to 20 %. At the same time as the so-called. The small pension law has ceased to apply, its application has been extended to the following year and still applies today. So, a small pension law applies, and now 100 kuna and 6% have entered into the basics and this law that I have quoted applies. So it's incorrect that nothing was done.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u18916	Thank you. Dear Representative Zlatko Kramarič.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u18917	Thank you. Dear Mr. President, it is incorrect that counterparts Pera Kovacevic that only HSP has always had a unique view of debt returns. .../ The speaker went off and turned it back on. See that every time... The speaker went off.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u18918	Please keep an eye on the microphone for yourself, turn it off yourself.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u18919	No, it's not now, the microphone's bad.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u18920	No, you move it and put it out with the papers you hold in your hand.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u18921	Exactly, and since Kovačević is new to the Parliament, then I say all phonograms are available to him, he can easily look very easily to see that he really is not like he said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u18922	Thank you. On behalf of the IDS Club, Honorable Representative Damir Cain, please. Did you get that? Here you go. Correction of an incorrect allegation.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u18923	Thank you, Mr. President, I would like to correct the incorrect allegations of the HSP expert team because I assume that my colleague Kovacevic was speaking on behalf of an experimental HSP team. So, yes, that this law finally recognised the debt of the pensioners. In the previous assembly of this Parliament, at least a dozen times since then, the government has been responsible that the state has nothing to do with the pensioners, but the government has only confessed even though it has not made a debt to exist. He was coming back and now he's trying to come back. But therefore, your claim, your experimental team, is incorrect.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u18924	Finally respected representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u18925	Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor, Mr. Secretary, So the position of the pensioners is difficult, the position of the pensioners is ungrateful, the position of the pensioners is not promising and God will not be better for me once we adopt this proposal for a law implementing the Constitutional Court of Croatia's decision since 12 May 98. Why? So because we're fooling ourselves into doing something that's just not possible, we're playing trickster, magicians, we're getting out of hats actually what's not there. Unlike Mr Kovacevic, I do not care who is responsible for the situation. If it's the former government now, if it's the government's responsibility, I know it's not. However, I do mind throwing away unreal promises. Whether it's those promises that go into pre-election time that all the debt will come back, whether it's unreal promises we're going to hear during today. It bothers me when you create a psychosis that the debt will return to the stock. And here I have an article where Mrs. Jadranka Kosor, Deputy Prime Minister, is certainly a person who is extremely familiar with this problem 18. Six. In 2004, she said there's no stock for all the debt. I repeat again, there are no shares for all the debt. It's easy not to have shares now for all the debt, but shares that will be allocated to the pensioners will hardly cover a small part of that debt, and that's actually the central issue. What stock are we going to serve with debt to the pensioners? Are we going to do this to Victor Lenc, Tekop, the First Maidens of Rasha, Torpedo, don't know, Ricardo Bencic if they, if we can say thank you to them, then we can tell the gentlemen no thanks. The truth is we don't have a budget projection for 2005. However, the Ministry of Finance and here is the economy minister announcing a private privatisation in 2005 and debt to pensioners in an ideal case could only begin to return to 2006. Meanwhile, we heard 300 thousand pensioners died. The trend with that 22,000 a year is likely to continue. This law on the other hand, gentlemen, doesn't talk about anything. We have seven articles. Let's let the seventh one talk about where it's going to be published. The first mentions a fund that still needs to be established through a special law. The second one says who has the right to compensation as if we don't know it, but it's good to say it. In the third, the difference in pensions should be determined but the biggest delusion in which Mr Lesar spoke is also hidden, where, with the fact that he will be given to pensioners or to the fund under quotes "false shares" concerns the fact that the pensioners will not get a solution, that they will receive some reckoning which they will not be able to dispute with the competent administrative authorities. One word in this section shows that this Law is a great error. The fourth article again discusses the fund, in the fifth, the right to return in the event of death can also be obtained by heirs to the damaged person but not by those who have died so far means 300 thousand and in the 6th fund should be established in the first year, which will say that the first fee can be paid only in 2006 if it is clear then. Let's get this straight. The IDS absolutely wants to implement the Constitutional Court's decision. We'd like the money back, more specifically, for the pensioners to be compensated and God forbid this law to live. But we also have the right to doubt this proposal when already in advance Mrs. Jadranka Kosor, the current Deputy Prime Minister, claims that there are simply no shares for all debt. The remaining shares that are in the portfolio if we exclude public enterprises are simply under the quotes "invaluable". Let's just look at how they quote these shares of the hotel sector that we think is something God knows what the hotel sector is worth, which we think is something God knows what's worth. The hotel sector is over-indebted, no one in it, is interested in it, and only in 2003 through the form of guarantees the state has given its creditors about 250 million kunas. What is worth of ACI “Sun Hvar” it is already caperated. The IDS therefore proposes to settle the debt in the form of bonds. This proposal is far more humane than this, because the government is always behind the bonds, the government stands, the Parliament stands, and behind this proposal stands the market, which is extremely uncertain for all pensioners except that group of pensioners that will revolve around the fund. Mr. Lokner mentioned in the Croatian retirement list number 5 in May 2003, he called it compensation. It means that compensation for pensioners would be 40 or more billion kunas. Mr. Linic mentioned 60 billion kuna in a television show. Now the Croatian Party of Retired and Government are publicly mentioning 20.7 billion kuna minus 3 billion kuna for 300 thousand dead, amounting to 17.7 billion kuna, which would go 2.3 billion kuna, and the former government itself has recognised in the money of 23 billion kuna of this debt to pensioners. I get it. This country can't pay 20 or 40 or 60 billion kuna. In particular, it cannot pay off the pensioners' debt by harmonising or implementing that agreement between the Croatian party of pensioners and the Government and the HDZ, where pensions should be aligned with 50% of the average salary of 1.1.2005, 60 with 1.1.2006, 70% with 1.1.2007. Why isn't that possible? Except the state would go bankrupt in that. In 2005, three billion kunas should be returned based on harmonisation. In 2006, five billion kunas should be paid back under this Act means plus six billion kunas based on harmonisation. In 2007, five billion kunas should be paid back under this Act plus nine billion kuna on the basis of harmonisation, and current harmonisations in general mean that I did not mention the growth of average salaries. This will all come to an end on that people's "A promise of crazy joy", all for power, power for nothing. Finally, I say and no one in this country has received a mandate for the bank of Croatia. That's right. Something happened in the first five months of this year. Those 100 kunas plus 6% went into that base as well. She's something and increased. The untaxable part. Now it may return from the other side of the participation, so what was given will be advertised, but in a country that today has $25 billion foreign debt, where the deficit last year was, I don't know, 6.3%, where 22 billion kuna should be returned to, indeed, really hard to believe that something more is possible. And that's why I say Croatia can bring ideal, it can bring fair, it can pass the most moral law, but what it's worth when Croatia doesn't have and it's just so soon it won't have any money. What is far more necessary if an effort could be made to make the average pension grow and move closer to 50% of the average salary, and later on, more and more. And that's the point. And that's what I think he's asking for the highest number of pensioners. That he could simply live on his pension. Long yes, but long is I say second-rate problem. The first level is pensions where in Croatia someone said 71% of pensioners receive pensions below 2 thousand kuna and somewhere around 70 thousand about 500 kuna. And that's the point. We can say there was money or there was money to get the banks back. So these banks were sold for 5 billion kuna, which put 30 or 50 billion kuna into it. We can say there was money for guarantees in these private companies. We can say that there was money to rehabilitate agriculture or shipbuilding, but respected gentlemen simply don't have that money. We can sell out all the rest of this country's silver. I don't know how our public will react. We can sell out all the properties by the sea. I'm the only one asking myself the same question if that's a good idea. I know how citizens in Istria County react. Istarska County did not sell itself in 11 years or square meters of land, and all against the Vodnjak municipality that sold two particles of a total area of 100 meters while on the other hand, on the other hand, only in that area the citizens of Istria sold about 5,000 properties to foreigners. What does it mean to be accepted in public? I don't know. However, the following should be said to this occasion. We have another big problem when the pensioners are by the way, and that's what they are. New pensioners. What about those pensioners who were retired from 1.1.1999? From 1.1.1999 to March of this year, 256 people were retired and their average pension was 1453 kuna. That's when she was out. Unlike the old pensioners now covered by this Act whose pension is 1905 kuna, they will say that the new pensioners were initially damaged by 20% of the average pensions relative to so-called so-called pensions. Old pensioners. Who's gonna pay those new pensioners back now? Those other than small pensions cannot be actually or could not be entered in that second or third pillar. Profit with those pillars can be those who, for example, are 40 years old today. This law, which is in force in my court of the new pensioners, puts the pensioners in an absolutely unequal position and I expect that someone here, as well as someone, will press a constitutional suit in due time. The problem is also with their participation if some threats come true because new pensioners who aren't released if I'm not mistaken are around 400 grand. So for the end of the debt, it can be paid back. It can be returned, but only to shares of large, state-owned, public-owned enterprises. Croatian Telecom, INA, Croatian Forests, HEP and so on. It's our suggestion that the government try to service the bonds. If he thinks seriously he will, and if he gives the pensioners shares such as those that are in the defence fund in his time, then the same thing that happened with the Defence Fund will happen with this fund, which is that it will go bankrupt. It'll only make individuals around that fund, and everyone else just doesn't write well. I agree, everything needs to be done to pay back. But this may be the only way to do this, but it's not really promising. The IDS will support this bill but we also express the surprise why our proposal, and the original proposal of the Retired Mother, is not parallel to the debate with this Act. What are the economic parameters in this country I said something but what just astounded me when I listed teletext this morning, so when I saw that the Croatian National Bank limited the growth of bank balances because the foreign debt for the first 5 months, not by the first 6 or by the middle of 7th place, increased by $2 billion a month. The economic parameters are unfortunately bad, not exactly promising, although I am convinced that the 2005 budget year will be much easier for this government than it was in 2004. However, in 2005, citizens will not live more easily than they did in 2004, as they did in 2004, rather than in 2003. I want to note, however, the following. If there's a stock to pay back to the pensioners, it means to these old ones, then it should've been for those who were taken away so-called. acquired rights, the NOB fighters also sort of get to meet and at least their disabled. But what hasn't been done in the past four years, I doubt he'll be facing this marble now. Once again, IDS will support this Law even though I said it was not promising and we are afraid that in the end it will end up a great disappointment for 750 thousand pensioners or for those who would exercise the right to return under the allegations of the rainbow. But as the people say, hope dies last and for that hope IDS will give its vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u18926	Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative of Silovano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u18927	Your Honor, I'm correcting two incorrect allegations from my colleague, Agent Damir Cain. He said the debt is a second-rate problem that is not acceptable since I have opinions on thousands of tired people who say it is and how the current problem and how they are interested in both the social state and their rights and the rule of law to function. And secondly, it is not true that nothing was sold in Istria, and I ask Mr. Cain to check in the ranks of his party exactly what was sold in Istria, he will surely find out.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u18928	Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, Honorable Representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u18929	This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. In 1999, the Hrelja you know very well in Vodnjan, two properties of the Circle 100 hectares were sold to it in a public competition.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u18930	It's about hurting the Rules of Procedure. Not about the correction. Thank you very much, Mr. Cain. /Speakers speak out loud/
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u18931	Well, that's because they are. Because he didn't stick to the subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u18932	Mr. Caine, he has the right to correct an incorrect assumption that he holds a representative to be incorrect. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the respected representative Milan Meden.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u18933	Here I am correcting an esteemed colleague from Istria, otherwise I am not reporting for correction of incorrect allegations, but Mr Cain said that the benefits of the fund will actually have only individuals and not pensioners. It's just the ones who are at the fund. I'm gonna teach him some purely economic knowledge about funds. Investment funds are private assets owned by the owner of the shares managed by the investment fund management company, with the aim of making an attractive contribution to fund owners. The owner of the share, therefore, does not own an individual investment fund in the investment fund, is the majority owner of the proportion of the total assets of the fund depending on the number of shares it owns. So it's a correction to your quote. And I'll take the opportunity to make another false claim. Mr. Cain said that there are not enough shares in our country to get into the fund's service which is absolutely not true. This country is still very rich to be able to fill this fund and leave the funds behind. The main issue that companies have left in state ownership is raised.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u18934	Thank you very much, dear colleague Honeyn. Minister Branko Vukelic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u18935	Thank you, Mr. President, Your Honor and gentlemen. In view of these several discussions, I think we should repeat some things. I can say that those who have failed to solve this problem for four years and this Valda solves it now in the first six months that they are probably also disappointed by it. But still, I think we should all be happy and happy that we have a model that's come up with a bill that's come up with not so much as someone came up with and figured out how to solve it. But what was done next is a series of meetings each week with pensioners' associations, with a party of pensioners in the government where they tried to find themselves within the scope of opportunities primarily of economic Croatia. The way to resolve the question of this compensation. Not long. Because neither does the Constitutional Court's decision mention debt. We must remember the period of 93 and 98 and the situation and the stabilisation programme and the war years and the conditions that were then. The Constitutional Court has established what this Law also finds, which is therefore not fully harmonised pensions in that period with the growth of employee salaries. Part of it has been dealt with by laws and past years. So even in these four last year, but not in general. Here is a bill which clearly and precisely determines not the debt and the calculation of the debt but the deadlines of the right and who has it. And deadlines for who will at what time do what. And I repeat this law clearly defines who has the right to that distinction, who has no right to that distinction, who will calculate that difference, so it's the Bureau of Peace Insurance. At that time, the fund, or investment fund we're talking about, will be operational. And that's a year from now. Which means that by that year's end, a law on the establishment of a fund with a public definition must be passed and what are the shares, which are those properties and only the shares that enter that fund. So very precise and clear the first time is told who will do what and at what time. So here this Law does not regulate how much this difference is, but determines who will calculate it, for which period the laws will take into account when this difference is recorded in terms of and what has already been paid, or what is somehow corrected in relation to the ire. I also said and I will repeat to the fund that will be established by the basis of the laws that will be passed by this Croatian Parliament and which will enter the procedure immediately in September this year. So in this fund, there will be not only a small share of high-quality companies, shares of eons of companies that will, among other things, be defined in agreement with pensioners. And the mentioned ones are already crou media and through performances, and I don't think we should talk, we know we're talking about quality shares of IN and HT and I don't know which companies. Not about the shares of some failed companies. But other than the shares of the company, there are also valid real estates that can be, therefore, the value of the fund. So, first of all, I think we need to have a mind to do that, and it's not about fraud, deception, delaying, winning time, but clearly and precisely repeating, set deadlines, obligations, who needs to do what. It's clear there's got to be time and this year I don't think it's some kind of deadline that's just been said in mind, hundreds of thousands of pensioners who need to be accounted for. This calculation will be able to be done in an info-rammic way and through our information. But for a part of the people, it will also have to be manual, so I think it's a comprehensive job that a pensioner has to do and gives this deadline very appropriate to actually make that calculation at that time. And that reckoning is the foundation of the share of that pensioner that he was made into an investment fund. And I think that's clear and I think it's clear that this model makes it impossible for me to talk about the solutions people need to get. But we're just talking about the stakes that will be based on a reckoning for every pensioner. And every pensioner will know this bill and will also have the possibility to object to the remark, to seek possible corrections if he is not satisfied or if he has observations on the method and method of calculating what he will do. I think it is also clear to everyone that what Mr. Cain was saying here is to be serious and that given the situation in which Croatia is economically and so far away, and if economic progress indicators are still good at the beginning of this year. Or encouraging if we look at the trend in export growth and in relation to imports. And if we look at the increase in credit ratings, not in consumption, but in businesses. So we have good indicators. but I agree with the external debt or debt of Croatia still on a slight increase, and so the external debt that Croatia has is one of the elements for the serious man of each of us to say that we cannot go into solving these differences and the compensation of pensioners through bonds, because this is Croatia's new task. So we need to be serious, and there is a really great effort here and I really thank all the pensioners, associations and foreigners who really went from the starting point of the economic possibilities and opportunities of Croatia to find a model that will be the best, fair enough, fair enough and for the pensioners to compensate for that difference that they did not receive from the 93rd to the 98th pension in line with the salaries, without again bringing and not jeopardising and what we cannot endanger, which is Croatia, the budget and the situation in which it is economically. So I think that this model is the consequence of repeating, many hours of talks, agreements and I am convinced that pensioners and pensioners' associations have greatly analyzed everything this law offers, which is the way and the way it is, and that they are very well aware and confident that this is a serious job that the Croatian Government with full responsibility and Prime Minister and I as the competent minister and vice president Kosor who works on this team, we are doing and we are doing that to finally solve the story of these differences and the compensation of the pensioners for the period from 93 to 98 and before us is that law. I repeat he defines the deadlines, the terms, he talks about what and when someone will do, and I think through the Fund's founding Act there will be stories about what this fund is, how it will work, how it will work, what will be the underlying capital of that fund let's call it so on and so on. This is what follows very quickly, therefore already in the autumn and at the meeting of the Parliament in the autumn and before clearly at the cabinet session. So I don't think that we need to re-enter any doubts or questions whether it is or not, whether it is safe or not, I think it's quite clear that this law clearly defines holders of obligations, deadlines and what who needs to do at what time to get to the final solution to this problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u18936	Thank you. Six rectifications of incorrect allegations. First respected representative, Dragica Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u18937	I am sorry that this issue is politicised, so it is done by the minister and, in its politicisation, two incorrect allegations. The first is that the last government hasn't done it in four years, which is incorrect. It has been passed since the first year of office, the law has been applied and is still being paid annually under the law 2.4 billion kuna. And if this government had solved everything in six months is incorrect, we are only six months of discussing this law, in a year it will be a calculation and a fund formation, then there will be shares in it, and eventually they will have some contribution in a year for a possible payment or will quote, they must quote above nominal value or at least nominal value, and I have put three questionnaires when that time will actually be achieved.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u18938	My colleague Zgrebec nor did the minister say that the last government did nothing like you say, nor did he say that this government did everything. That's not true. You weren't correcting an incorrect quote. Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u18939	You've injured Article 209. Please read the phonogram and you will see that the minister said the last government in four years has done nothing, and this government has done everything in six months.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u18940	It is not true and it is not a matter of breach of the Rules of Procedure, and I do not accept that it is a violation of the Rules of Procedure and I am asking MPs, I will indeed have to abide by those provisions of the Rules of Procedure that, if a representative is called upon to correct the incorrect allegations or infringement of the Rules of Procedure, and this is not the case, that I should apply those provisions of the Rules of Procedure which stand. But I'm particularly warning you, it's about the last session of ladies and gentlemen of the council. Please take care that democratically and with dignity, we allow everyone to debate, to express their opinions, conflicts, to confrontation their opinions, arguments and reasons, but let us not use these provisions of the Rules of Procedure to correct and to compromise one another. Damir Kai's rectification of the inaccuracy.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u18941	Thank you. I welcome the government's efforts to try to repay the debt to the pensioners, it's commendable and if they succeed they need to raise a monument to the sky. But I can be denied by gentlemen, but I cannot deny Mrs. Kosor who says she has no stock for all the debt she claims to have...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u18942	Thank you very much. It's not a correction to an incorrect quote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u18943	No, it's not. Let me...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u18944	I can't let you and I won't let you. I give you a warning because it is not about correcting an incorrect quote but about commentary. Dear Representative Marin Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u18945	Your Honor, Mr. President, I am correcting Mr. Secretary's incorrect claim, regardless of possible different language terms, Semantic analysis, etc. An incorrect quote, Mr. Minister said, is about compensation rather than debt. It's Mr. Minister about the debt no matter what we call it, and I wouldn't want it to happen again that the government that made the debt until 2000 claimed that nothing was due to the pensioners, and that only the past government admitted that it was a debt made and that it would come back even though she didn't do it. You said it wasn't about debt. That's not true. I'm correcting that quote. It's a debt, and it's a huge debt. And if you've settled it in six months, we'll see very soon.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u18946	Dear Representative Mato Arlovic is correcting the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u18947	Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues, I will correct two incorrect allegations. The first is an incorrect assumption that trends, as Mr. Minister says, are encouraging economic development. Unfortunately, economic development trends are not encouraging, as all statistics show first that the rate of economic growth is lower than in the previous year was at the same time, and that by all activities starting from industry and beyond, the reduced growth rate in the concrete industry is almost halved in comparison with this and these trends are very worrying. Another incorrect allegation is that unnecessary funding from the state budget to address this problem, according to the minister, is the compensation of pensioners. That's not true. It continues to remain in force in 2000, and under this law, funds to pay the difference under this law are secured in the state budget and will have to be provided in the state budget for the resolution of these issues, as this law does not pass the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u18948	The next correction to the incorrect allegations is the respected representative Milanka Opačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u18949	I'm correcting Mr. Secretary's imprecise statement that this law defines the deadlines and terms and the bearers of business. That's absolutely incorrect. In this law, there is not a single deadline except for a year when a fund will be formed, so there is no other deadline, not one holder of the task, and at least there are stories about which shares and what will be in that fund.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u18950	And finally respected representative Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic rectification of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u18951	Thank you very much. It is incorrect that Mr. Minister said that this law, that this law allows an appeal, i.e. an objection, to react incorrectly, or possibly if the pensioner expressed disapproval or disagreement with the resulting difference, because this law does not foresee it at all. Eventually, if you explained it, and you said literally, you would be able to object. This law does not foresee, perhaps you plan to open a new phone line for such objections. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u18952	Dear Representative Davorko Vidovic on behalf of the SDP club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u18953	Mr. President, gentlemen representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. Here's a bit of a review by listening to the latest presentation of Minister Vukelic somehow re-emerges in my memory of last night's or yesterday's debate on violations of laws and regulations in this country, about an ethos that was established probably centuries ago. That hiducia was a non-compliance with the law, a matter of resistance and freedom, and that being rude to the state was something that was cared for because those countries in Croatia were always alien. So we realized that the rudeness of citizens and resistance to that state was due to the state being rude to the citizens. I must say that I am truly revolutionized by the bill, which is a new contribution to the loss of credibility of government and state, which is a new contribution to humiliation in fact by a large number of our citizens. He smiles and there's a lot of promises in the campaign and he can be promised. He may also admit that the promise must not be carried out, but must not persist in deception. Unfortunately, the bill that we are now getting on the table is a proposal that we know in advance, and I know it and most pensioners know it, will not solve anything, nor will it increase the standard of people who are objectively difficult in this country, and these are our pensioners. The chronology of the debt story is also known and long. This law that we are discussing today in Parliament only admits one thing. He admits that debt was made, that pensioners were damaged and the good thing is that it is the HDZ government because the government, the last government, had no problem recognising it or not recognising that debt. It's a good thing the HDZ government recognizes that. It's the only thing that's good and the only thing we can read from this law. Nothing else, dear minister, can be read out of this, not a single deadline, not a single act, because the reckoning that should be made is not an act. It's not a solution, it's a paper that doesn't have any value to anyone. But let's go back to chronology because it seems like a lot of people have already forgotten what it's all about. When the debt was made, the former, that first HDZ government not wanting him to admit something actually started on his return. They never confessed to him. First, three months from May 95th to October, I think, or September they were giving 50 kuna. That's the '95s. And then from October to November next year, 96. 100 kuna. To go beyond that, the calculation by which the former HDZ government calculated that the debt was 7 billion and started with 100 kuna and 6%. That's what this law admits. And a billion based on those 50 and 100 kunas and admits 7 billion based on 100 kunas and 6%. That's seven billion. This law also acknowledges that the government, the coalition government, returned to the foundation of the Law on an increase in pensions that we had brought in orderly and within the time limit as promised and agreed with the pensioners, in 1.7.2000, and whose payment started in cash, amounting to 2 billion and 400 million kuna, amounting to 9 billion and 600 million kuna in 4 years. So, in this bill of law, it's recognised in the explanation that a billion volley is returned, that's 8, plus this 10, 18 billion is returned. What else is there to return? Not knowing how long it is, it's not quite true. Don't you think we've sat together with the leading experts of this country and with the pensioners and calculated that debt? And we've come up with three amounts. One amount was 24 billion kuna, it was the debt that was calculated because the individual debt was not made. He was made according to the Pension Insurance Fund. Not individually, and that had, of course, repercusion then and the pension payments that were reduced. So we calculated, so 24 billion, that was pure money that was taken directly, so we did another calculation, which would have been paid off, so if it had been indexed, what would that be? Then we came to an amount of over 30 billion kuna. So what if it were that debt, that those pensions were paid in full, that they were indexed, so when all this wasn't done, what was the interest on that money? Then there were 46 billion kunas. Gentlemen, I'm asking you, what amount are we counting on here? Indeed, they warned people, it's absurd to say 2 billion and 300 million interest, and we don't know the principal. What 2 billion 300 million interest? We don't know the debt, we don't know the amount, we don't know who it's gonna be paid to. If it will be paid truly as a debt, and we insist that a solution must be issued and a re-retirement must be calculated, then it will bring constitutional such a solution to all those who do not get it. Because if it's a debt, it's also a debt to them. So we don't know who he's referring to, we don't know what the money is. We don't know how we're gonna get him back anyway. Will he return as you announce, save me, God, through the establishment of funds? So we have experience with PIFs, we have experience with defense funds. Did you repeat that scandal in the '90s one more time? I'm asking you gentlemen. You're mentioning about 18 billion kunas that we still need to get back. So 18 billion kuna is $3 billion, and the entire INA is estimated at 2 billion, and we still have 50% of that. From where, what stock? What companies? We have HMID and HMO, Croatian Pension Insurance and Croatian Pension Investment Company. The former HDZ government has accumulated a thousand 436 companies into these funds, they were worthless, it was a worthless portfolio where the Kutlers ran and picked up everything that was valuable and left the garbage in those funds, that the pensioners would get rid of it. We had to pay the Privatisation Fund to get rid of that portfolio because the damage we had from it was huge. What dividends are you talking about, dear colleague? Who's going to determine which one she nominated? We don't have a stock market. Will it be just from the first quotation on the stock market? What's it going to be? We promised the defenders of the stock and the workers of the stock. What portfolio? There's no money, gentlemen. There's no property. There's no money. Who will manage this fund in what way? They say head grays, not gentlemen, broker, the most capable experts have to manage the funds and not sit their heads if something is to be done. That's why I don't believe it, I can't even say like Caine that hope is the last one dying and that I hope it'll be something of it. I know in advance, and I can't act crazy and say that something will happen when it's known to be nothing. It started in 2000, just like you guys are gathering pensioners, and there's Mrs. Secretary and Assistant, and we sat down with the pensioners, so we told the gentlemen which model we're going to choose, they said don't just give us the papers, and we offered the bonds as a variant, not a stock. Bonds. They said no papers, and I said we're not going to paper because the bags will come and they'll pick you up and... buy those bonds of yours and you'll have nothing. The difficult position of the pensioners requires that the debt be paid immediately and immediately in as much money as we can. We could say 2 billion 400 million kuna, plus 100 kuna and 6%, 3 billion 900 kuna a year. This increased pensions I have to start because some pensioners forgot it, by 660 thousand people immediately by 20% and for the remaining 110 thousand from 0.5 to that 20 and 18%, respectively. 660 thousand people received a 20% pension increase, of the average 99th pension, we came to 1720 at the end of 2003. 560 kuna was an increase, and from you gentlemen neither lime nor by this, nor by that or any law. And what about that story, what about the promises? I, gentlemen, know that you will be punished politically in the elections for what you do. But I don't care about that. What's much worse is that in this way we spread the space of mistrust in all those who deal with public affairs and who want to do something for the common good. Don't agree to this because it's short of breath. What are you going to say in a year's time when you're setting up this fund then you'll say the first year of 9 million kunas you're giving, that our officials have to go through HZMO who have other jobs to calculate this individual debt, a year people are going to work on it is not a simple job, and in 2000, when we talked about whether we were going individually to make sure that it was right for people to evaluate it, so wait a minute, you're delaying the story because you're not going to solve the problem. We made a model that also suffers criticism, the problem of this model that we started with is, for example, because we said that this debt will be returned in 10 years, it's back because of these 100 kunas and 6% that we've done, it doesn't say here we introduced 10. 12. In 2002, as a life-long right, for the rest of our lives, it just didn't go into the ground, and that's how we osgiurated, so when that deadline expires that it would normally be paid and that it would be a kind of interest for that debt. Which is bad, bad because indeed one part of the pensioner who died and who will die without waiting for him to return is left without it. It's bad in our model, it's bad that those who are already dead didn't get it and can't inherit it. If you wanted to fix and return faster you could handle it, but gentlemen we will accept, issue bonds, issue solutions, calculate a re-retirement we will support such a proposal, everything else our people has for that expression is on will play
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u18954	Thank you. Six rectifications of incorrect allegations. First respected representative, Maria Byte.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u18955	Thank you very much, Mr. President, the esteemed colleague has made a number of incorrect allegations, one of them is that the new bill just confirms the unbelief of the government. This is an incorrect allegation because the law that is proposed just confirms the credibility of the government and the pre-election promises of the Croatian government and is also a colleague probably, I don't know whether it's a lapuse or he forgot when he said 50% of INE was sold. That's an incorrect quote that sold 25%+1 of the INE stock but unfortunately you forgot that you sold the rights as if 50% were sold. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u18956	Next, the esteemed representative Katarina Fuček corrects the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u18957	Mr. President, I am referring to the correction of an incorrect quote that has already been tried by a colleague and partially corrected by colleague Byte about credibility and colleague Vidovic said so. "The proposed law is a new contribution to the loss of credibility of government and state." The bill's proposal is just in favor of confirming credibility and your credibility is just lost because we still remember your campaign when you said we're gonna pay back the pensioners, we're gonna pay back everything, and then after you came to power, a difficult economic situation started and what you did a little bit you lost credibility because you offered what wasn't real, it was a loss of credibility to the government.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u18958	Thank you very much. Next correction by the respected representative Ljubica Lalić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u18959	I thank Mr. President, so I'm correcting the Prime Minister's allegations...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u18960	No Minister, you have reported for correcting the incorrect quote of counterpart Vidovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u18961	I'm correcting myself, so I'm telling the former minister now a colleague of Vidovic who said the Retirement Enlargement Act began to apply 1. 1. In 2003, that's not true. In 2000, the Retirement Law passed this Assembly and the Government then with Minister Vidovic began to apply from 1. 1. In 2001, so I don't understand why the former minister is reducing the value and effects of his own work.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u18962	Thank you very much. Next correction by the respected representative Krunoslav Markovnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u18963	Thank you, Mr. President. So here I am correcting the inaccuracies of fellow Vidovic says: "This law will not solve anything" which is actually more pre-election than the law, but I must say that in fact from Mr Vidovic's point of view it is clear that this work was ours, that this restoration was ours, our refugees and what is most surprising to me is that Mr Vidovic, very accurate and precise, can calculate our debts, and he does not admit his debts at all and perhaps that if we were smaller, we could now pay back more.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u18964	The next amendment is said to be a respected representative of Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u18965	I'm correcting three incorrect allegations from my colleague Vidovic. The first incorrect allegation by Mr. Vidovic that the individual debt was not made, never individually joined the debt settlement and the debt was made to the individual, that is, the fact. Secondly, he said the HZMO's worthless portfolio was that it was and especially now, however, it did not prevent the coalition government from seizing into the portfolio in individual cases. And thirdly, a charge has been made against the promoters, and I believe that pensioners' associations and the Croatian party of pensioners are involved in this proposal and that is active. They are said to persist in deception, which I cannot accept as an accusation by fellow Vidovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u18966	And the next respected representative, Niko Rebić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u18967	Thank you. It is incorrect that the proposal for this law is another delusion and loss of credibility of the government. What Mr. Vidovic needs to know is that this is the first government to admit, know and solve this big problem. And it's clear to everyone it's not easy for, and it's very clear, it's not easy for your authorities who have accumulated an external debt of over $25 billion. So it's impossible to actually service it, return it from the budget. What the public needs to know is that your government never truly wanted to pay back the debt to the pensioners, but by tactical moves by adding 100 kuna plus 6%, actually create an evaluation and extend, which is why the people in the election naturally gave you an account. I hope we can be more successful.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u18968	Thank you. Minister Branko Vukelic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u18969	Thank you, Mr. President. Here's a short one, but I'll do it again, and unfortunately I'll find that the first time I checked in, that I was right after all, because I'm sorry that in the entire SDP Club and Mr. Vidovic were revolutionized by the bill, revolutionized by the proposal to finally solve the whole story of compensation for the difference between pensions 93-98. We can agree or disagree with the suggestions on how to solve it, but I think we should all watch what this law actually offers and I think that really the law does offer no fog or anything that will not be or can't be, but what is also known to me and I'm sorry that, I believe that we are sufficiently familiar with what investment funds mean, how they function in the world, what everything through them can be realized. And I think this model of solving pensioners' compensation goes in favour of pensioners and all those who will have a share in that fund, that's for sure. The paper that calculates the difference has no value, the model of the law and the bill's proposal speaks precisely about how shares in the fund will have value, not paper. So I think that story is quite clear. You know exactly who he's dealing with and what he's dealing with in this law. And I don't think that this investment fund should really be tied to valuable shares, companies that are well listed on the securities market, with valuable real estate that really shouldn't be compared to any failed cases of any kind of funds or I don't know what, I don't think that's going to contribute to some sort of resolution of this issue, but to creating a disturbance among those who are most interested in getting rid of it. And interested, I think we should be that we are all the Croatian government and the Croatian Parliament and the pensioners to finally finish the story about the pensioner's compensation for this period, and this time I will repeat what I said last time, someone may not have listened well to me, in the bill of law everything that has been done over the past years on compensation, and with this law, this story ends entirely.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u18970	Thank you. Correction of incorrect allegations, respected representative Nikola Vuljanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u18971	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister was well and neat throughout his exposure using the term compensation at one point said debt. I'd like to correct that word "debt." It's not about debt. Debt is created when I lend you something, so I need you to pay it back. And they're going to be compensated for being deceived. To those who've stolen something, and it's a fact. The legislator made a nice note of it and called it the law. So it's about the compensation of those who are in this country, and a lot of the citizens of this country have been deceived, the ones most deceived in this country, the pensioners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u18972	Dear representative Ljubica Lalic on behalf of the HSS Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u18973	I would like to thank Mr. President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. So let me first of all at the Club of the Croatian Peasants' Party we are disappointed in the way this debate is being conducted. Since we know the situation in which the pensioners were found, these same pensioners didn't deserve politics over their misfortune. Here's the truth that it's a debt no matter what his name is, but the truth is something else that I'm going to explain in an explanation that follows. Before us is the proposal for a law implementing the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia since 12 May 1998, the simpler this law could be called and it would have to be called the War of Debt Retirement Act. That name would be understandable to any pensioner. This way many pensioners don't understand what it's about. And the pensioner is interested in one thing, how many states he owes, and when he gets that amount. Whether the answer to that is life's question to him gives him this law, unfortunately the answer is no. This law only promises that the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute will, within one year of the date of entry into force of this law, determine the difference between the amount of age, early age, disability and family pensions belonging to pensioners and the amount paid to them. The second promise is. That the compensation of pensioners will be achieved through a special fund established by a special law. What kind of fund is that? We don't know. Does this fund make up money, real estate, stock? We don't know. The only thing we know is that referred to in Article 4(2), which says that the established difference between the paid and the corresponding pensions will be the basis for determining the initial value of the fund’s assets and for determining the share of the individual pensioners in that fund. So there is no clear answer to the question asked by the pensioner. When and how much I will receive as compensation for what my country has taken from 1993 to 31. 12. In 1998? Instead of answering, new promises, and thus completely unclear. What will the assets of the fund do? I can make it cash, which is unlikely. They can make it real estate, but they can also make it shares, and not just those successful companies such as Hrvatski Telekom, INA, JANAF etc. The assets of the fund can also form shares of failed companies whose nominal value is significant and the market close to zero. But what kind of fund it's gonna be, we don't have to guess. But the people's proverb says, "whose snake was slaughtered, he's afraid of lizards." And that's why the pensioners are suspicious, because the government of that political option that this government belongs to also denied any debt to the pensioners. Moreover, one of the ministers at the time said that the pensioners themselves were guilty of low pensions. What is good in this law is finally acknowledging that pensioners in the period of 93-98 have been systematically stolen. Would today's confession be that there's no constitutional court decision and yet another significant factor I don't want to talk about right now? Probably not, and as I think about this proposal, we are reminded of the questions that the pensioners have raised for us when the debate on amendments to the Peace Act, under which the addendum to the 100 kuna peace area plus 6% was integrated into retirement and became an integral part of it. The pensioners asked how much their pension will increase and when they will receive 100 kuna plus 6%. We had to answer them that the proposed changes did not increase the value of any lip, or that they would receive as much as they had received in the future. We also explained that future pensions will be brought into line with wage growth. The pensioners were disappointed and all they could say was, so we're being double-crossed again. Whether they are deceived then and whether they will be deceived now is not my place to judge because they will judge it on their own and directly each person in their own name but what we must tell them has no payment taken, you have only a confession that you have been taken away and the method of return and the time of payment is wrapped in fog. And that is why we are assessing the cynical reasoning of the consequences that law-making will take place and that is why it is said that the adoption of the proposed law will improve the material and social status of pensioners. The improvement of the material and social situation implies an increase in the amount of money available to the pensioner. With these means, the pensioner buys food, clothing, shoes, pays communal expenses. Unfortunately, the mass of funds does not increase by this law and the promise cannot pay either bread, or milk, or even a TV subscription he was promised would not have to pay. There, just for example, we can conclude and see what the promises mean. I think we have to say that in the parliamentary procedure, we have another bill to pay back the pensioners, and I'm surprised that it wasn't said before that which was proposed by the IDS Representatives' Club that regulates the return of debt in bonds, that means in money with a precise delay in payment but in equal annual meals. It is unrealistic to expect that one-time payment is entirely possible. It's not possible but over a few years it's possible that bonds are hereditary. We are surprised that our colleagues from the Croatian party of pensioners voted against the urgency of the process of passing this law. We thought that they had agreed a better solution with the government and their coalition partner. Now that that proposal is ahead of us, we don't see a better solution. Furthermore, this recognition of debt and the promise that pensioners will be compensated in a vague manner, therefore the promise and recognition do not apply to all pensioners. Among others, pensioners who have made their pension according to the rules of individual farmers have been excluded from recognition and compensation. The peasants are re-classified as second-class citizens although their pensions are known to be lowest and less than 500 kuna per month. But they have no right to the difference between belonging and paid. Whether from this case we can read the relationship between these authorities and the peasants and agriculture at all. If the parliamentary majority, as suggested by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, rejected the proposals from the National Pensions Act proposed by the Croatian Peasant Party's Club and the Social Pensions Act proposed by the SDP Club, which should have provided such social security to this part of the Croatian citizens who are not capable of work and cannot, apart from their pension, achieve any other income and pension amounting to 200 to 300 kuna per month, we are now asking the Government how they will take care of just the poorest. Is it possible that they will leave them to themselves and to die by their voices? Socially sensitive government isn't so cruel. Furthermore, the recognition of debt and the promise of return does not apply to the heirs of the pensioner who did not welcome this recognition and promise. The provisions of this law apply to pensioners whose pension is paid on the day of entry into force of this law as well as pensioners whose pension has been suspended for employment purposes. Based on this article, let us consider the righteousness of the solution on the following example. The day prior to the entry into force of the pensioner, he moved from this world's life and his wife has no right to return what the state took from him from 1993 to 1998. On the other hand, on the same day, the second pensioner, for example, becomes a minister, a representative in the Croatian Parliament, or gets a job elsewhere, and has the right to compensation for what was taken from him during the same period of time. If we seek righteousness, it must also be evident through the proposal of legal solutions. For the sake of truth, I would like to point out that in the last term of office or more precisely in 2000, the Croatian Parliament has begun to apply the Retirement Enlargement Act since 1.1.2001 and to remove differences in pension levels achieved in different periods. According to Article 1 of that Law, the law also implements the Constitutional Court's decision of 20 May 1998 in accordance with the economic opportunities of the Republic of Croatia. It is worth noting that the basis of the law from 1.1.2001 will be paid to pensioners by the end of 2004 with 13.5 billion kuna indicating that payment in money over several years is possible and without the establishment of an unclear fund that is not known what it is doing, what will make it property and how the debt will be charged. Therefore, according to this proposal, the law which does not answer any of the questions asked by the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Peasant Party cannot give support to such a law.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u18974	Thank you very much. I shall report to the MPs and MPs that Article 207(2) is in accordance with Article 207(2). The Rules of Procedure expired time to apply for 10 minutes in 10.46 hours. We have several corrections of incorrect allegations. First, respected representative Maria Byte. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u18975	Thank you very much, Mr. President. A series of incorrect allegations the colleague said. I'm gonna make this bill right. It only makes promises. That's an incorrect quote. As representative and lawyer, Ms. Lalić should know that the law determines the correct and precise legal norms, not the fog the colleague is talking about, and if we bring him in tonight for what the majority in this Croatian Assembly will for, then he is binding. The laws must be respected and implemented and the Croatian Government is serious and responsible so that I think it has made a complete mistake in new developments on promises and fogs and laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u18976	Dear Representative Krumoslav Markovinović, correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u18977	Mr. President, here I am correcting the incorrect quote of my colleague Lalić: the peasants are re-classifying themselves as second-class citizens. Gentlemen of the HSS, that you are the value of the wheat and the corn that you have given irrevocably... To the companies, to share the pensioners, the peasants and the pensioners believe the debt would be much smaller. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u18978	Infringement of the Rules of Procedure esteemed representative Ljubica Lalić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u18979	I thank Mr. President, my colleague hurt Article 209 because he did not correct the claim, it was not an argument, it was a question. The question of whether the peasants are re-classified as second-class citizens and whether or not the issue is established also indicates that only farmers have a pension of 240 kuna and that no pension increase law applies to them or is received by those increases.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u18980	What's a rhetorical question, what's a rhetorical claim. Honorable representative of Jure Bitunac.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u18981	Dear colleague, dear colleague Lalic said the pensioners were systematically stolen from 93 to 98. I think that's one... , at the very least one... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] the claim. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We can talk about delegating, or stepping down certain of their rights, but we need to understand the position of the then government when it comes to the Stabilisation Programme and when it comes to fighting war and all other costs. So, you're usually willing to give a little bit of cobwebs and a lot of radical grades. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u18982	My colleagues and colleagues, please, when correcting the incorrect quote, leave out that usual supplement. Because that usual supplement always goes into one zone of something other than correcting an incorrect quote. Dear Representative Petar Mlinaric, correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u18983	Mr. President, in part, my colleague Markovanovic has already corrected me, an incorrect allegation has already been corrected, but I will add, Mrs. Lalic said, peasants are being classified as second-class citizens. If they were classified as second-class citizens, then you wouldn't have encouraged them, you would have paid off the incentives, and we did, this government paid off the incentives that you didn't have time to pay off to know.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u18984	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of HSLS and DC, Honorable Representative Ivan Chehok, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u18985	Mr. President, Mr. Minister and Associates, ladies and gentlemen... The place in cultural history became a protagonist, Bogolo's novel "Dead Souls" Chichikov, a slightly unusual character who walked... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Russia and to increase the value of its economy, he wrote down his own ownership in the value of the dead soul's economy in order to increase its value. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It seems to me, too, that the living value of national Croatian wealth and we, in our analysis, are already beating up the dead, unfortunately the capital of 300 thousand pensioners who will never wait to see their debt paid back. Not only that, but to live the value of our national wealth and that old stabilisation war government and this so-called. The reform government actually slowly beat up on the fact that the pensioners themselves said they beat up on the fact that they have a generation that unfortunately disappears and that every day they are less and less obliged but which is why we, ladies and gentlemen sitting here, and the young Croatian generation, owe very much. And out of respect for these generations, we need to discuss not so much today what someone has done but more about what we are all going to do together to correct that historical injustice as much as possible. And I think it's actually a theological question, even a little bit of alchemism, that it's dead capital in the future fund, so, from capital that we haven't actually recorded how to create living capital out of it yet. Or how to create a living value so that these people sitting here with our colleagues and all those watching us today can guarantee in due course that they will be compensated. And that's our key question today how to correct the injustice of not committing another injustice but that as much as possible by compensation so-called. By redistributive justice when justice was gone, when the funds were shared, when they distributed that today, at least with this redistributive later justice, we also satisfy our older generations, our pensioners. Today, it is generally thought that happy is the society in which different ages are happily co-operated, it is called in the philosophy of the co-existence of life in which young and middle age can live happily, old. We, unfortunately, and I must say this quite openly in front of HSLS and DC today we have a completely perverted state in society, on the one hand, our young people are authorized, I would say even authorized, do not participate almost in any prevailing socialist course that exists in this society. We have the highest rate of under 25 years in total unemployment rates across Europe. Over 40% of our total unemployment rate is under 25 years old. They are authorized and deposed of all the centers of political power and, unfortunately, most often, their politics is disgusted. And on the other hand, we have this older retirement group, which is unfortunately played, and we have to say it openly, and we have to admit it today, at least it was a stabilisation group, and I don't know what kind of war government they're being played. Equally exaggerated from all streams because, as counterpart Kajin has already shown, it is impossible or difficult for his colleague Kovacevic to live on 1000 and some kuna. And that there may not be local environments that help such as Varazdin or Zagreb to these pensioners and in many cities, Koprivnica, in many Bjelovar, in many cities could not live. They are not also present at the centres of political power, and unfortunately in those companies where the fund also has majority ownership such as Brijuni, unfortunately colleague Cain, there are no pensioners. Even in other, even other state-owned companies. So, unfortunately, we have a perverted, socialized state in which young people are exorcised, unemployed, older, played, underpaid, or not even paid for what they have earned. And today we are looking for a way out of this state, looking for exactly how young people who will create new values in the Fund will be able to compensate older parents, grandparents, those who have not only raised them, from whom they have listened to the first stories, who have taught them perhaps just how to be honest and just to others. And so I think that we must support this Law and also realize that in these few articles, in these few provisions we almost have no real analysis and that we may not have any solid information that we could get caught for and that we could say, “Here is a firm and certain guarantee.” I want to see our pensioners openly today in front of the party who has never lied to the voters, saying, “Dear pensioners, it is not safe when you get back that deep. It's not safe when these debts come back because even at best, hypothetically, that this fund has high yields and it's going to be 10%, it'll take 10 or 12 years if we count these 2.3 billion kunas more interest, it'll take 10, 12 or maybe 15 years to completely depreciate that generation. I want to tell them quite frankly. I don't think it's a good idea not to say that to the other club representatives. We're not sure, but the fund is in these circumstances when we don't have money, when we have a high external debt, when we have this rate of industrial growth, and when we have this rate of growth of gross domestic product, this is unfortunately the only way and the only way that they've ever agreed to and with which the pensioners' associations have agreed. Although there are no specific articles and mechanisms in these eight provisions, I think it is good to pass this Law because unfortunately we all know that in this Law... Home and recognition of debt must be legal text. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] If it weren't for the legal text, if we were just relying on guarantees that were verbally or declared or on political promises, it would all be replaced by the wind and it wouldn't be anything, and so it's good that this recognition of debt, this recognition that we're going to damage the pensioners has legal value that it's passed in the form of a law. And finally, I'd like to say that by paraphrasing Goethe who once said that a man becomes older the moment he starts to regret the sins he didn't commit, I'd say let's not all make mistakes and make these pensioners old just because they won't be able to repay the debts they didn't do themselves, that they didn't create themselves. Let's pay back our debts even in this form, and let's do it so that this older generation can hope, hopefully one day, even if that redistributive hand of justice settles what they've been compensated for.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u18986	Thank you very much. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u18987	Your Honor, Mr. President, gentlemen of the Parliament! I won't comment on this quote below, in front of a party that never lied to the pensioners. I remember the election in 2000, but the other guilty allegation says Brijuni and so on, suggesting it's like an Istrian County company, Istria. It's not true, it's the Croatian state. As far as I'm concerned, pensioners can be on all boards, including Brijuni, Brijuni, because that is, but above all, the problem of the current coalition, HDZ, HSLS, DC, HSU and so on. And Damir Cain is not on any supervisory board of any company.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u18988	Dear representative Marija Lugaric. Correction of the inaccuracy.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u18989	Dear Mr. President, my colleague, Chehok, said that under 25 years of age in the structure of unemployed young people, they take the highest share and that we are at the top of Europe and that we are specific. Part of the assumption that we are in Europe is completely incorrect. Young people under 24 are indeed the largest share of the unemployed, but it is so everywhere in Europe. It is currently 21.3%, and the percentages in Europe range between 17 and 26 and 28%, respectively. It is about being young and what is good, and they are also the easiest working group. And when we look at the statistics on how far they are at the Employment Service, it's mostly under a year. Statistics from 2003 that we received at the Employment Service yearbook show that during the year 2003, the share of these young unemployed fell the most and fell during the whole unemployment drop, and what worries me about what will happen in 2004. These statistics will be good to see in 2005 since all the programmes for reducing youth unemployment stopped, and we talked about it the other day. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u18990	And the esteemed representative Nikola Vuljanić, the correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u18991	Thank you, Mr. President. A colleague, Chehok, mentioned that Colloquial term again. Neither does the promoter benefit from the word debt. Let's agree to use those terms used by the promoter. It's about compensation for the stolen, for those who've been robbed of the money, and now they're getting their colorful papers back.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u18992	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Honored Representative Ivan Chehok.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u18993	Mr. President... Lugaric hurt his Rules of Procedure, Article 209, because she did not correct my allegations. [[Speaker not enabled]] I quoted it from our colleague Furia Radina's book, which clearly states that Croatia is at the top of Europe by the number of young unemployed.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u18994	Well, dear colleagues and colleagues, let's once realize that what your claim is, whether it's correct or incorrect, whether it's something true or incorrect from the correction of an incorrect quote, can't be corrected. State Secretary at the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship Ms Vera Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u18995	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honored MPs and respected MPs. In the hope that this announcement of mine or let me say intervention in part of the debate so far won't cause any ex post controversy and delaying debate, I'd like to actually use your exposure as a clagworth, Mr. Representative Chehok, in the section where you spoke of generation debt. That is why it seems to me that it is time in the context of this proposal to find out: Yes, it is, first of all, above all, in generational debt. What is more important is to say this proposal precisely because it is a system that needs to ensure social security and intergenerational harmony and generation solidarity and intergenerational solidarity that must take care not only of the past but also of the future, sustainability of the Generation Solidarity System. In that context, I would remind you, even though it seemed to me that there was enough in the explanation of this, to the geneasis related to the Constitutional Court's decision. The Constitutional Court did not question the situation at the time and the government's right to intervene with the disturbances in the macroeconomic frameworks. Therefore, it did not question the government's right to intervene in 1993 with regulations under which pension insurance was intervened. It was then done in a way that limited, limited availability of funds for certain purposes and coordination, inter alia, and pension coordination. Such circumstances exist in every nation's life here and there for the sustainability of the system, this intervention was necessary. However, after these extraordinary circumstances related above all to the Stabilisation Programme had fallen off then it was necessary to do something about the period when, not taken, Mr. MP, but it was not possible to give it a significant difference. Therefore, when these exceptional circumstances fell apart, it was possible and it was necessary, not perhaps, to consider what to do in relation to that social group and to bring them to a certain level and to comply with the principles of social justice with the principles that were applicable in the regulations while they were in force for the period when these regulations were derivated by government regulations. It wasn't made. this p-regular law, respecting as Mr. Minister said and as some other participants have said in the debate, respects all the efforts so far made to improve the situation of the pensioners. And he's dealing with the specifics, so the problem he's created is that he's partially synchronising his pensions. This is not about the debt as it can usually be spoken in layman's terms because it would imply the calculation of pensions recalculating pensions by determining the new amount of pensions so that they could speculilrait further what would be if they were. But if we took it hypothetically, it's possible we'd get to the point where we'd have to keep our salaries in line with our pension. What you admit is not simply in the realm of real possible or could be maintained by this system. And the Constitutional Court, by establishing and not questioning the government's right to intervene in that period, finds it necessary to make certain damage efforts. The Constitutional Court uses the term, therefore the Government had no other option but to use the term set out in the Constitutional Court's decision and reasoning. So it's about certain compensation. It is also that the compensation on behalf of interest is therefore not a matter of calculation, but of specification, interest account, but of ryan's compensation, therefore all in line with economic possibilities, both the decision and the reasoning of the Constitutional Court speaks. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u18996	Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect allegation, the respected representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u18997	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mrs. Secretary of State has said this is not about debt than it is about compensation. Legally, it's the most correct expression that it's a matter of maturity and outstanding amounts. And so comes the Constitutional Court's decision. So it's not about getting there, it's financial law very clearly. You've reached and you've earned an outstanding amount. So you arrived and the outstanding amount. There's only God above us. The amount not paid is closer to the notion of debt than the compensation. So you arrived and you didn't get paid. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u18998	And the esteemed representative Joseph Leco.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u18999	Thank you very much. The Honorable State Secretary incorrectly interprets the court's decision. Or it's an incorrect government proposal. There is a difference between 95th and 98th because the government's proposal said, following the end of the government's rule of law from 1 February 95th, the conditions for harmonising pensions according to the wage of all employees were obtained legally. So the legal conditions for harmonising pensions with movable salaries of all employees have been obtained and we're talking about it. So there are two legal situations, which the State Secretary didn't talk about, so she incorrectly interpreted the constitutional decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u19000	The Croatian Democratic Community Club, Honored Vice-President Luka Bebic, please welcome.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u19001	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Today by discussing this law I think the most important problem here is whether this law will solve this problem or not. This is where the doubts are raised today. Although there was a debate and a contribution to this other variant that wanted to solve this problem, even Mr Cain said that he had hope and that he believed. And he's so optimistic. Unlike the evil prophets we have listened to, doubting these intentions and suggestions, which are joint proposals by the government of the RH pensioners' associations and the party of pensioners. We're optimistic unlike those who aren't. And that's the difference. In doing so, there should be no doubt that it is undermining the period from 1 September 93 to 31 December 98. That's how it's been said here two or three times that it's been stolen, then it should be claimed who that thief is, and then shut him down. Or judge. And so on. And here we heard the argument that in the living circumstances the Croatian state was then, and it cut off the pensioners during that period. So it wasn't in accordance with the law. If a man were to judge what it means, it means that a great burden under these circumstances was borne by our pensioners in war by a large part of the burden. They are the category that is the most socially endangered, but they bear the wish they did not want the burden of the war effort of Croatia. What we can do, here's what we can do, is we're proposing a way to damage our pensioners. Unfortunately, not everything is possible, for reasons known, years of dying, and so on. What do we suggest? We propose to create a fund that will be transferred to the fund for quality shares and real estate to ensure that pensioners are reliably compensated in due time. For many, this due time will be relative not to say another expression. But we turned to solving that problem. It wasn't easy, there were a lot of conversations with the pensioners' association and with the retirement party. These negotiations were not easy, but they came from the reality of what is most important and faith that the creation of the fund would create such a real basis for the gradual compensation of the pensioners during this period that I was talking about. So it's gonna be eleven years now that these, uh, damaged pensioners have started, and now it's gonna be six years since the Constitutional Court made that decision. This has been in the power of the HDZ government for a year and a half, not to solve the problem, but to some measures mitigate the problem as this past government has mitigated the problem and in some ways sought to reduce those debts or compensations as you will. And this government has turned those 6% plus 100 kunas into basics and these are all measures positive with the effort to sort out this issue in some way. What stock to transfer to the fund? Quality shares of quality companies and quality properties that have their objective, real market value. The ability to manage this fund, the ability of those who will manage it, the management that will organise it and do it and try to increase the value of the shares on the market, is a question of uncertainty in which we go consciously. I am particularly impressed by the people who spoke to us from the retirement associations and the parties who have faith in it and have engaged in such a one why they do not present a risk certain, that this fund will operate successfully and that it will be a good basis for compensation and good business and capital multiplication that will be managed. We all agreed there was no money, money as money. So when he's gone and we agree he's gone, what do we do? What kind of alchemists would pay off a debt with money they don't have? They claim they don't, but they don't agree that anything is done to get at least sometimes that kind of money and value. So we're engaged in an experiment, though, but with some positive results that we're going to solve this problem in due course. This is where the debate was started, according to what was said louder, the arguments were stronger. It is not necessary to speak loudly because the volume does not affect the quality of the arguments, but we speak reasonably, realistically and try to get out of this. Injure pensioners during this period, the Croatian state has to do with the constitutional court's decision, and we respect that decision, and whether we call it debt or compensation is a minor issue if we solve the problem. We should've had the political will to go into this problem and the courage of the personal, those people who negotiated and we set out to do it. We ask representatives of the Croatian Parliament, we ask the pensioners who are waiting for the solution of this question to have confidence, trust is either there or there is no or respect the arguments of one or the other, but we have gone and set off from a dead end. We're on our way, because we were mandatory and because we have to admit that we did what we did, I'm not talking about reasons right now. When we talk about a period of 93-98, we can see the reasons. This may make us a little less comfortable with our own in order to express our responsibilities and the need to solve problems, but it does not deprive us of our obligation to deprive the pensioners. Inheritance of shares of some of these that are ironically ironic in this respect, shares are inherited as well as any other property except that it is specified here to be the first succession order, and what will be the first succession order is to which inheritance order and by law inherit according to the priorities of the first. In view of what Mrs Lalić put out here that unreal this is all we're saying, that it's just a hoax, so it's very interesting that Mrs Lalić and her colleagues, when this budget was being passed, asked for 3 billion, requests for the budget as real as it was, the Boja was not real, it's not, I want to say how relatively relatively the concept of reality is. What I think is just as unrealistic then was as real, and now what can be real isn't real. It's a very strange view of the question of reality. So, villains, prophets, I've never personally loved, and I don't think most of my club is what I'm talking about. I believe that the government with its partners representatives of associations and party pensioners has realistically judged our opportunities and realistically proposed this law. The law as soon as it is passed it has the fixed norms that are as precise as it is possible to establish a fund when it will be made clearer and more precise and more detailed about this everything we say and I hope that after 11 years the Croatian Parliament will finally begin to realise the debt and 6 years after the Constitutional Court has made its decision finally to define itself and to begin with this law to resolve this issue. So I ask the representatives of the Croatian Parliament, despite some exaggerating the resolution or contribution to solving this problem during their government, and reducing it during the other and vice versa, I think it is realistic that we pass this law and that we finally begin to do something permanent in the matter of resolving the compensation of our pensioners. I hope we get a majority in the Croatian Parliament for this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u19002	Thank you very much. We have six corrections of incorrect allegations. First respected representative, Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u19003	Here's the thing. Your Honor, Mr. President, gentlemen of the Parliament. Mr. Babic misquoted me. He said I had hope and that I believed that I said it. I said a little differently. That people say hope dies last and that hope will be voted by the IDS Club. But to be honest, I don't believe in that law. Why? Because there are no high-quality shares, that's the second correction to the quote. Although true, the fund still has shares in more than a thousand 100 companies, it is 50% of what entered into the conversion in the early 1990s, but gentlemen, in very much, but in some 840 there are up to 25% stakes. In some of them, there are only negligible percentages resulting from the breakup of ring contracts with small shareholders. And there's a majority in 160 companies, but many of those 160 companies ended up in bankruptcy or liquidation. The only high-quality shares are shares of public enterprises.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u19004	Thank you. Dear Representative Antun Kapraljevic, correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u19005	I will correct the part at the beginning when Mr. Luka Bebic said, the most important problem is whether there is confidence in whether obligations will be respected. So I don't know if the laws should be implemented on some kind of optimism or something that's written in them. In this law, however, we offer the pensioners a reckoning, and based on that reckoning, they have nothing. If we were offering them a solution, then I'd be as optimistic as you are. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u19006	Dear Representative Nenad Stazic. Correction of an incorrect allegation.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u19007	Mr. Luka Bebić says it was not easy to offer such a solution. And the truth is just the opposite. The easiest thing to offer is a solution that doesn't cost anything and the pensioners won't get a dime. Because today when this law is passed, the pensioners tomorrow, next month, next year they won't get a penny.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u19008	Dear Representative Zeljko Pecek, correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u19009	It's an incorrect quote from fellow Babic when he claims that we all agreed that there is no money. No, we disagreed, the best way to prove the budget rebalance is because 2 billion and 800 million kunas are increasing revenues. What we can't agree on is the need to set up a fund like this, which is obviously a coalition toy. I'll remind you, that fund existed before in retirement insurance, and it was ruined. One-third of the privatisation of all shares ended up in a pension fund, however, it is missing. By the same model, this fund will disappear, but we're buying time for the next two, three to five years and we're playing with that fund management.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u19010	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Zlatko Kramarić, correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u19011	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, distinguished representative Luka Bebić. Unfortunately, I started counting too late how many times you said the word "real," but you didn't convince me that these funds were real just the ones some colleagues were talking about before me. And these funds, unfortunately, have existed before, I don't know why the shares in those funds would be real, and let's not say they're real, real government bonds that we really think this debt against the pensioners and solve, and not like we're really promising something that's really not going to come true.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u19012	You have expressed disagreement with one point of view, not correcting some factual claim as incorrect.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u19013	Oh, for real, for real.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u19014	Oh, yeah. Dear Representative Davorko Vidovic, correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u19015	Mr. Bebic has incorrectly stated that the problem of pensioners' debt will finally begin, neglecting the fact that Article 3. The bill he's defending is said to be coming back, that 18 billion kunas have been returned by these laws so far. And you say finally. What's 18 billion? Nothing for you. That's an incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u19016	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Croatian Party of Retired... What? ... You're all witnesses, aren't you? ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] When so, respected representative Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u19017	Thank you very much. It is incorrect that counterpart Bebic said that with this bill the implementation of the Constitutional Court's decision begins. This law only makes it certain that pensioners will stop paying off what is being paid on behalf of the debt so far. ... No, that's the provision of Article 3. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u19018	Okay. Comrade Kramarić, what are you showing? ... It's not broken, it's got to be handled properly. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] Honorable representative Josip Sudec on behalf of the Croatian party of pensioners. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u19019	Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to say a few words about the law that lies before us. The Republic of Croatia took over the Law on Fundamental Rights from Pension and Disabilities Insurance in its legal system in an hour of independence on 8 October 91. And according to the Law as well as the Law on Pension and Disability Insurance of Pensions and other monetary incomes are regularly aligned with the movement of salaries of all employees in the Republic of Croatia. This was achieved in 91st and 92st and in section 93. In 93, a stabilization program was adopted. The government of Mr Valentiæ limited not only pensions but also salaries to workers and brought a number of other measures. However, we pensioners felt that these stabilisation measures were the only ones most damaged and that we were turned from pensioners into social cases. The peace was unfortunately halved. We sought, prayed and godmothered as representatives of the association to discuss the problem. Because on the one hand there was the Law, on the other hand regulations were adopted by governments that were persistently implemented. At the time, the minister, Mr. Parac, told us that we do not have the legal legitimacy of our associates. Then we took care of it and formed it, we formed a Croatian party of pensioners. We have set up associations and parties jointly disputed before the Constitutional Court which concluded the Constitutional Court's decision to suspend or suspend the pensioners in the period or during which they were suspended or suspended, in a manner prescribed by the Constitutional Court. The biggest differences were among pensioners who were retired or retired until 31.12.94 and the differences occurred between pensioners who went on retirement 95, 6, 7 and 8. Therefore, there were so many differences among these old pensioners that the Constitutional Court found that there was a need to intervene. Just as new pensioners are now different from those not subject to this present law, but it is certainly the subject of the discussion that these wrongs are being wronged, because pensioners who do not have a second pillar will share the fate of the first pillar, and that first pillar has limited actions. This Fund that needs to be famished I think it's a more permanent character that it's not just going to end up being compensated for the pensioners but that it's going to revive and act further by helping all pensions or those who are going to be retired without a second pillar in retirement. I have to say that I appreciate everything done so far, I was a participant when it was claimed that there was no debt, I remember well when it was said that the Constitutional Court was wrong or that it was on the rise, but now we now recognize all mistakes and all the good things. I have to say that we were happy with 50 kuna, with 100 kuna, we were unhappy when he passed the law to go according only to the cost of our lives by harmonising pensions, we gave him to the Constitutional Court's assessment, and the law on the return of part of the pension debt, no matter what his colleague says, but we call it a simple jargon, and we don't need to be ashamed of it, and the Constitutional Court said all that the state is doing to you is on the line of compensation according to the Constitutional Court's decision. So, we were patient, when we saw that we couldn't solve with one government, we supported the new government, I thank the new government has made efforts and corrected certain injustices that occurred just between the pensioners retired in different periods until 98, no matter how much Mr. Vidovic now calculates that this is a debt recovery, so it is a debt recovery if we calculate it, however, we in retired associations claim that there is no real debt recovery until the whole Constitutional Court decision, that this is all a partial solution to that problem. And there was no big difference on that line, Mr. Vidich, between what we experienced with you and what you say we'll experience here, perhaps. But we believe that we will not, you were present when the Prime Minister called us and said we can give this or take it or withdraw it from the procedure, so you haven't asked us much if we agree or disagree but you told us openly it's our option and we can't give it to you anymore. Thank you very much, you've given a lot, you've given in cash, and we're all grateful for that, but let's not too much about whether we're seduced or not now, we believe that the government will fulfill its promise, we believe that it will give quality shares and real estate, we believe that this Fund will succeed, wish the Fund luck to that fund, we wish that this Fund could liven up and the decision by the Government and the Parliament to participate in this fund together in its management and the process of its work. The accounts and solutions, gentlemen dear and the accounts have protection, so there is a Commercial Court, is not only a court of general jurisdiction by which those who will not be satisfied with the calculation or will consider that injured will be able to run for their stakes, and there is therefore protection before the Trade Court, but the greatest protection is that each pensioner will have the right to see his reckoning to make an observation and there are over 200 organizations already preparing to exercise control. Therefore, I think the controls will be secured. And finally, I call upon you all the pensioners voted for the different parties for their commitment, I call on you all to vote for this law, to bring it, to find a large part of the pensioners alive because I have to say that the average enjoyment of retirement is 15 years, 11 years have passed, therefore, very few pensioners will be welcomed but I want the injustices of the ID and if this starts to be done by the rule of law and social equality and justice then we welcome these solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u19020	I thank Mr. Judge. We have three corrections of incorrect allegations, first is Mr. Nikola Vuljanić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u19021	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. A respected colleague said the Fund would help new pensioners, maybe but it doesn't say anything. The text of the law definitely doesn't mention it, maybe he wants it, but maybe something and I know we don't know it, and we won't vote in the text of the law. And maybe just to point out three times a colleague has taken advantage of the euphemism of debt again. We must not use euphemism here in public.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u19022	Thank you very much. The second correction to the incorrect alleged Mr. Representative Antun Kapraljevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u19023	I have to go back to that finding that my colleague said which I think is incorrect, which is that the calculation and the solution are the exact same thing. NOT like that, all those who are ever in life, and we've all got a few solutions, we know that in the end he writes instructions on the legal remedy, he doesn't write anything on the bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u19024	Thank you very much. And another correction to the incorrect allegations by Mrs. Agent Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u19025	Mr. Vice President, it's incorrect that he told his colleague that the bill could be found in the Trade Court. It will not even settle the commercial court because the commercial court does not deal with it, but also this Law also deprives the right of administrative dispute under this law, which would otherwise be jurisdiction, or should that account have the form of an administrative act but this Law excludes it, so there remain any free phone lines, actually telephone but it is a question of whether it will be free of charge.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u19026	I thank Mrs. Representatives. There is another club, on behalf of the Club LIBRE Mr. Representative Jozo Radoš.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u19027	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and fellow MPs. The Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia's decision since 12 May 1998 opens a series of very large political, social and constitutional issues. As that decision has been made, I will try to talk about it, since there was no question about it. My speech, of course, does not question the need for this decision to be implemented, but as this decision has taken place, why this decision is so, and what that decision means for the future of the Constitutional Court's decision on such issues, I will say something about it. I think the best criterion for the relationship, for the assessment of pensions, is the best practical criterion, that is, their fairness is the attitude towards wages. In the world, you have a relationship between 30% and 60% of the pension and salary ratio. It is obvious that some of the countries that, therefore, have lower percentages of that relationship are unfair countries. It is likely that the constitutional principles of all modern world countries are equal in this regard. And if the Constitutional Courts were to decide in this way, probably half the world should go bankrupt. You already have 35 percent to 50% pension and salary ratios in Europe itself. What does that mean? So all European countries are based on more of the same and very similar constitutional principles. So the question is, how is it that this Constitutional Court has made that decision without the rest of the constitutional courts in the world making such decisions? All this opens up, of course, a series of very serious issues, and it is likely that this precedent will have very serious consequences for the future of political life in the Republic of Croatia. The peace in Croatia is coordinated in several ways. Either they do not comply at all, which is also a method of harmonisation, or they are in line with the cost of living or with the cost of salaries, or with the combination of cost of living and wage costs as was the case recently in the Republic of Croatia. Which of these methods of harmonisation can the Constitutional Court assess as constitutional, therefore legal, and which of these ways of harmonising illegally? If we recently passed a law harmonising pensions with wage movements, is it a 4-year solution when they were in line with the combination of cost of wages and cost of life, and so it was in one period of the 90s, is that an unconstitutional solution? and whether the Constitutional Court has a chance to say something about it, so it makes one decision again that will cost the state budget 10 billion kuna. So this decision by the Constitutional Court opens up a number of very, very difficult questions. For example, Germany's Bundestag decided on 11 March this year that pensions from the current 53% of the average salaries will come to 43% in 2030, because the German economic and fiscal system cannot handle those pensions. Is this in line with the constitutional principle of the Federal Republic of Germany which, in that sense, is probably very similar to the constitutional principles on which the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia made that decision. Therefore, a number of very difficult issues are raised, and this decision will also open a series of such issues, and the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia will again have much to do. If he's consistent, it can be very, very serious. Because I told the Constitutional Court that if they were made based on some logic, they would take half the world into bankruptcy, because countries that have, for example, that ratio less than 40% would have to pay huge amounts, in fact, should lock down the state's register. But now something about this law. This law says that, therefore, the return of debt to pensioners will be resolved through a special fund. Well, hasn't the past few months, or half a year since the government was established, been enough for this Parliament to pass a full law after half a year. Let's see what kind of solution that is. It's about a special fund, and then it's said in an explanation that this fund is going to be an investment fund. It's not in the law that it's going to be an investment fund. So, we don't really know any less about this fund anymore. The fund is obviously the fruit of a coalition agreement between the coalition partners. And now I have to go back a little bit to often the abuse of the objections of HDZ MPs both in this council and in the earlier session of the difficulties of the coalition government. So they often got involved, interfered, enmityd, and said that some, some decision, some law, is the fruit of bad coalition relations. This law is exactly what it is. This special fund, which we don't even know how big it is, or how it's going to work, and of course what the consequences for the pensioners will be for that fund, this fund is indeed the fruit of coalition agreements. And in order not to keep it all together in the fog, there is still a sum of 2 billion and 300 million kunas of money. So this pigeon on a branch that you don't know what it looks like, what kind, how big it is, is still being replaced by a sparrow in a hand that knows how big it is, is 2 billion and 300 million kuna. But he does not know exactly when to land in the hands of Croatian pensioners, or when to burden the state budget. And it's incorrect what it says in the light of the law, that this law doesn't, that it doesn't cost the state budget, except 9 million kunas for the calculation of debts, that's not true. That's not true. This law will create, however, we do not know exactly which of our state budget costs of at least 2 billion and 300 million kuna interest. How do you get interest if you don't know what the basic amount is? Well, apparently by political agreement, by political agreement, and that's the patching of that coalition hole, which couldn't have been patched up with the fund itself, but the pensioners logically want something in the hand of that very large sparrow. And that's why these two billion and 300 million kunas that are going to sit on probably supersede on a few of our next annual budgets. And so that's the reality of political relations in the ruling coalition if it can be called that, and that's something in itself that's not a problem. What's bigger than that is the question, what's going to happen to that fund? and could the Ministry of Economy and Labour in the past 6 months not have been able to formulate a proposal for the structure of the form and way of functioning of that fund? This is absolutely irresponsible work by the Ministry of Economy and Labour, or by the Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity, because by the name of that ministry, it should be responsible for passing such a law. What's another question that's being asked here is the question of the circle of pensioners who are going to get these benefits or debts and I'm really not particularly interested in termology in this regard. Is it not logical that those pensioners who have died at least since the Constitutional Court's decision, when the decision of the highest body of the Republic of Croatia has given them the right to do so in a legal sense? On May 12th, the pensioners acquired that right. Don't they have the right maar to die on the return of that debt or, of course, their first inheritance order as predicted for the pensioners who will be alive on the day of this law, not to go any further, that we don't go until September 1, 1993 when that debt is created. This is absolutely unfair and will likely be the first reading to be dealt with by the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia. If it is consistent, it will have to decide that, from 31 December 1998 to the date of adoption of the law, at least that category will have to be included in this law and, of course, this will mean additional costs for the state budget, i.e. burden on the liabilities of the fund. And, of course, the question remains how it will be calculated, whether it can be calculated at all, whether or not some other criteria that are not only technical, therefore measurable and exact. It will certainly be used because it is absolutely impossible after everything that has happened in the Croatian pension system in the last 15 years to calculate this debt without question. Will she be included in that debt? pre-indexation. At a time of great inflation, as you know, pensions have been in line with the wage developments in the last three months, and then after the alignment, it's been a month until their payoff. And of course they lost 10 or 15% of their value in those months, and such pensions awaited that in 1.9.1993, shouldn't that also be taken into account when it was calculated? So there is a big question of how this will be done and certainly the questions of the Constitutional Court will be addressed from the point of view of righteousness. And one more question. It is said here that the differences that existed between the people who did the same, the same salary received and retired from different dates, even the difference between those who went away in 1993 and 1998 full 38%, so two people did the same thing, the same pay received, the same age, they retired. The difference in pensions is 38% but this negative and this poor unfair process has not stopped since 1998. And here it's only about that period. He continued after that. An educational worker who retired in 1996 with the same years of internship, the same qualification, the same job, etc. He will receive, today, 2.5 thousand kunas of pension and the same man who retired in 2003, a thousand and a half kunas of pension. This law doesn't regulate that question. Therefore, the question of the fairness of that law is raised and in this segment. And finally, after all this, a colleague and colleague fundamental assessment of the law on behalf of the Club of Representatives of libre. This law is partial, it's just a very foggy hint of a partial solution. This is not a partial solution but a sign of a partial solution. This law is unclear. This law raises the question of fairness regarding the calculation of those pensioners and their children, i.e. the first succession order that died after 1 September 1993 or after 12 May 1998 and also opens the issue of justice, the issue of incompetence in the way of calculation. It would be much better if we got one whole bill if we knew exactly what that fund looked like. In this way, it is really hard to define for this law. By the way, we're thinking that the funds we're setting up are actually very, very problematic institutions. We have experience that's negative with funds, we're going to form with this fund two very large funds. The question is how these funds are going to work, the question is whether they will not have the same experience negative that they had before those funds. The question is, what's it gonna be? It would be much more logical if all the shares that are to be put into this fund were simply to be divided into the pensioners if they already existed regardless of their quality that all the money we can give and we want to give to the pensioners in the next five years and I don't know how many years they're giving to the pensioners as well, so I think we'd get more satisfaction from the pensioners, avoid the risk of these funds' bad business and do something else that's still more important, go faster along the clear ownership relations and privatisation that is in this country and so on and so on too slowed down. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u19028	Thank you very much. We have before the Minister's report a correction to the incorrect allegations. Ms. Representative Nevenka Majdenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u19029	Your Honor, Mr. Radosh said you don't know how the fund's going to work. That's not true. It is known exactly how and how the fund must function because there is a legal framework called the Investment Funds Act published in the "National Journal" 107/95, 12/96. and 114/01. And there is one more thing I would like to say is that 16 investment fund management companies currently operate in the Croatian market, which manages 37 open and 4 closed investment funds and which act successfully. I don't think Parliamentarians should abuse their immunity with negative judgments and suspicions because of the lack of knowledge about the functioning of funds, which makes direct damage to the business of funds.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u19030	Thank you very much. A proposaling representative, Mr Branko Vukelic, came forward. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u19031	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear ladies and gentlemen! Here's after the presentation and discussion of all the clubs I'd like to say a few sentences, but also what Mr. Radosh was saying now. I'd like to correct a few really inaccuracies. First of all, immediately clarify the story of the 2.3 billion kuna interest which will go to the burden of the budget, which is absolutely incorrect. In fact, this bill clearly states that these interest rates are part of and are added to the difference which becomes the fundamental value of the fund to be established. Therefore, it is not about any means to be paid from the position of the budget to the pensioners. The same thing is clear and I want to say it loud and clear. This law is not the fruit of any bad coalition relations of any party but is the fruit of the quality work of the Croatian Government and of the competent ministries with pensioners' associations and with the party of pensioners from the wish and commitment of the Croatian Government to finally resolve the problem of compensation of pensioners for the period from 1993 to 1998 when their pension is not harmonised with the average salary. I will also remind everyone that the 98 Constitutional Court's decision makes it clear that it is not illegal regulations that prevents pension coordination, but because of the circumstances that we all know why and how, but also how, the Constitutional Court has found that pensioners have suffered damage under such regulations and deserve, earn and receive compensation, i.e. compensation. And that's why you can't even say what Mr. Vuljanic's respected representative who I don't see here is now saying it's a fraud because fraud involves some kind of illegal shop. Therefore, it is about compensation, about the right to compensation, because during this period, pensioners could not use their right, or the right to coordinate pensions. And the desire and commitment I believe in all of us is to solve this injustice against the pensioners with one model, one way that will be for mutual satisfaction, within the framework of clear economic possibilities, the possibility of a Croatian state. Maybe that's what a sparrow in his hand is, but it's certainly not like the last four years of a pigeon on a branch. We have come to a solution here, in the given possibilities that satisfy both the pensioners and the Croatian Government and the good will and the conviction of both the Croatian Government and the pensioners, is that this time it is good and that it also offers a chance to correct that injustice, therefore, damage the pensioners, and on the other hand that such an investment fund that will have valuable shares of good businesses, valuable real estate, will be able to create and add value in the future, business, clearly with its work for pensioners for many years. That's what's very important and important and I think we should each keep in mind. And that is why I absolutely do not accept what Mr. Rados has now said about the irresponsibility of work, or about the irresponsible work of the Ministry of Economy, Labour, entrepreneurship or any other Ministry or of this Government, because here in 6 months there is no law prepared, I will say, we have prepared this Law in these 6 months, it is also in the making of the first session of the Parliament, I believe in September will come the Fund Act. So we're in those 6 or 9 months we're going to prepare two basic laws that will solve this problem. For comparison, therefore, we cannot invoke the irresponsible work of any ministry of this government which in 6 months or 9 months manages to bring those acts that failed to be passed in 4 last year. I don't want to accuse you now, say that someone is irresponsible in the past period, but I also have to object that someone is talking about irresponsible work these six months or 7 when I think that it's exactly what pensioners and all associations can say out loud and clear, say that we've been working really hard, almost every week we've met and negotiated and asked for the best solutions. Therefore, each of us would like to see the best solutions available in a very short or shorter time, but surely this is one appropriate time and that we are creating all assumptions based on September this year that by the middle of next year, the fund is functioning and that we are finally solving the question of compensation to pensioners for the difference between 93 and 98. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u19032	Thank you. But it caused 7 charges for incorrect, 7 charges for incorrect allegations. So, in my opinion, we could have gone without this. But good. The first reported a correction to the incorrect quote by Mr. Jozo Radoš.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u19033	Mr. President, Mr. Minister said that these 2.3 billion kuna funds would not be paid out of the budget but did not say where they would be paid. If you don't say where the funds will come from, then they can always be the funds from the budget. But more important than that, the minister tells us where those 2 billion and 300 million kuna will be paid. He didn't say, the minister didn't say where it was going to be paid just denied it wouldn't be out of the budget. Well, I'd like the minister to do that and a fellow retired says where those 2 billion and 300 million kunas will be paid.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u19034	There is, there's a line to the Rules of Procedure. I'm sorry, he's got a head start. Here you go, Mrs. Maria Byte.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u19035	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, my colleague Rados did not correct Mr. Minister's incorrect allegations and he injured his Rules of Procedure in Article 209(2) because he semi-limised with the opinion of Mr. Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u19036	Thank you very much. Almost every time we could, almost, I won't always say, every time we could say this. But since that's already inert, then we'll put up with a change of rules of procedure, possibly. Now for correcting Mr. Shime Luchin's incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u19037	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister said that no one broke the law, but that it was actually about compensation because pensions were not harmonised. If there was a law on pension harmonisation, then someone broke an azcon, so they didn't co-ordinate those pensions.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u19038	Thank you very much. Mr. Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u19039	President, it is incorrect, Mr. Minister, that, not only incorrectly but also very inappropriately when speaking about this subject, say that here you are now, with this bill of law, offering the pensioners at least a sparrow in your hand, unlike the former government offering a pigeon on the branch. You are not only offering no sparrow, no pigeon, no branch, no hand offering them one big, big nothing.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u19040	What are we going to do now that the heat is overcome by reason? The heat should be a little smaller. That's my advice. He wasn't fierce, he said it very coldly, he realized it. And we'll get past that heat. The heat is needed in some other, perhaps circumstances when man is conflicting, more intensely, and so on. Thank you very much. It's okay. Mrs. Ljubica Lalic, please. I didn't notice that. As soon as Mrs. Ljubica Lalic gets the word of the river, then you'll get it.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u19041	I thank Mr. Vice President, so Mr. Minister incorrectly said that the previous 4 years the previous government offered a pigeon on the branch, because that pigeon on the branch had given the pensioners 13.5 billion kuna in his pocket. And it can't be called a pigeon on a branch. Unlike this sparrow in their hand, which, apart from some phantom fund that the law tells them about, what kind of fund, what property it makes it, and how it's going to do business, doesn't offer lip, except for a promise of desert and some fiction about a fund that has so far proved to be very negative.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u19042	Thank you very much. The pigeon is a symbol of peace, so let's take it. Mr. Dragutin Lesar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u19043	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'm correcting the alleged Mr. Secretary, and I quote, "This proposal may be a sparrow in hand, but it used to be a pigeon on a branch.". Mr. Minister, this proposal is not a sparrow in your hand. It's a mosquito in a nettle. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u19044	I see that the fauna appears more and more in the Parliament, the different representatives, yesterday there was flora and today there was fauna. But let's move on. Mr. Anto Kapraljevic is also correcting the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u19045	I must correct the part where the minister said this proposal satisfies both the pensioners and the Croatian government. I don't know which pensioners, you might think of only three pensioners, but I'd like him to satisfy most of the pensioners, and the question is, and it would be very simple to please all the pensioners if they were asked. Do they want money? Do they want shares? Do they want bonds? That's not what they're asking, it's what they're offered for.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u19046	Also an opinion expressed, but let's be optimistic so let's move on. Ma'am, Mrs. Milanka Opačić, please. [[- Intruder: Luka! Luka!]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u19047	I am correcting the incorrect allegations Mr. Minister has said that irresponsible work in the past four years has been present in solving the pensioners' problems. I think, Mr. Minister, that you are primarily irresponsible and not to the former government, but to all those citizens who have been out of their pocket over 10 billion kunas in the past 4 years to improve the position of the pensioners and to pay back a part of the debt that has arisen under the Constitutional Court's decision.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u19048	There was no claim by Mr. Minister regarding irresponsibility. That's what you've qualified outside of the Rules of Procedure to talk about correcting an incorrect quote. So let's move on. Just so much so, we've finished correcting the incorrect allegations and we're moving on to an individual debate. The first as well as the first club is Mr. Dragutin Lesar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u19049	This is really fast. Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Wanting to save time, and also to allow others in this debate when I spoke on behalf of the Club I stopped by expressing the skepticism that I am the reckoning that the pensioners will be issued by the Mirovinski Fund serves as the basis of the possibility of inheriting the first inheritance order. For the sake of the interests of the pensioners on this subject, we must clarify and say that unless there is a solution that would on the one hand enable the pensioners to appeal and a second-degree solution, it is simply not possible to achieve this inheritance. And what's especially important is what's important. This bill does not really solve the problem that arises at the time when false or incorrect data were applied on the billing of salaries of those who went to retirement. And without establishing a new initial pension, there will be no correction of the injustice that has been done to them, and therefore, the proposings and colleagues of the Retired Party would ask that either their amendments or their third reading would, therefore, try to find a solution to that part of the problem. In particular, since the issue and the definition of the billing or the increase in pensions is not explained whether wage growth will apply, the growth of average salaries, and in particular the great danger is to begin to interpret the growth of real wages under that concept. And finally, if it is and if the state finally admits that it is a debt to a citizen, one man should be rested on the fact that, after receiving a solution that will determine the amount of debt each of them must have the possibility of stating in which form they wish to be compensated for that debt. Otherwise, it is a state-run coercion in a way to compensate for a relationship between citizens and the state. I want to believe that you do not experience these arguments this time exclusively from the title of politics or politics but only with the interest of allowing about a million people of Croatia to participate directly in the decision on how to settle their share of the debt from the state. That would be about like this. If someone loaned someone money after 15 years, the one who took the money comes and says, "I give it back to you in bags of cement, bricks or I don't know what else." If, therefore, it is recognised that the debt of the pensioners exists then either the state returns the money or gives each of them the possibility of agreeing or choosing how this debt will take over from the State. It's the minimum we owe these people. And finally, those who asked, and especially counterpart Kovacevic, why the past government did not perform, paid off the debt by apostrophe that the HNS Club was in last term in power, was not the HNS Club in power, but I remind him and his colleagues that the debt until today had been left by the government in which he was the assistant minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u19050	Thank you very much. ... One replica. [[Speaker not enabled]] Mr. Marko Turic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u19051	Dear Mr. Vice President, here I have taken myself to replicate a little to the gentleman, encouraged me by Mr. Honorable Lesar on this, due-religious relations, sacks of cement, and before we heard the left you did nothing, you're right-handed and I'm telling you you're guilty and you are guilty, and so am I. So this side is guilty. It's like a rainbow. It's not long. It's compensation. These are all the things we're talking about, but the source, the essence, I'm a doctor, a history, so what does it come from? What did he get this problem out of? I haven't heard that before. It says here someone didn't take someone, steal them, cheat on them and so on. Gentlemen dear! In challenging times, while this was happening, creating, the Croatian state was born under attack. It was supposed to be defended. I apologize for these elements. I'm really sorry to have to talk like that. But we have to do it for the Croatian public. The Croatian public knows. She knows that. She didn't just need a hand, a penny of a pensioner. And that's why they're so happy, almost with this. Not just these three representatives here, but the entire population. But the Croatian state needed a lot more for its defence. It took 13 grand to live and 13 grand to live. The 700 thousand exiled who came here did not ask for passports and these decisions, so on. They've been coming, they've been looking, they've had to be taken care of. And now that it's human when the Croatian state is standing, when it feels like it can then it turns to that group and says: It's true that you were denied. Now is the time, however potentially economic it may be. Everything else is a story that actually wants to cloud this basic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u19052	There's no correcting the incorrect quote on the replica. But there's a reply to the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u19053	Your Honored colleague of this argument to me in the replica you had to give to the Constitutional Court because in this law we are discussing the Constitutional Court's decision. Not that you have now turned to the pensioners, but there is a commitment of this state for the Constitutional Court's decision. And there was the beginning of the problem because the Constitutional Court decided that the laws that were passed were unconstitutional. That's the first one. Second. You said the damage to the pensioners was done because then Croatia defended itself. The damage was then done to Croatian workers through privatisation and wages. So while the different Kutlers were getting rich in this country during the defense, you have now confirmed that the only price for the defence of Croatia was to be paid by Croatian pensioners and workers. That's your problem. You don't understand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u19054	This one may be considered to have offended Mr. Professor, but I've already withdrawn this information, that remark from yesterday, Mark Turic when you insulted him he doesn't understand anything. You don't know if he understands or doesn't understand. And you can't claim it's an insult and I give you a warning.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u19055	Mr. Vice President, if I'm a colleague, I publicly apologize to him, it wasn't intended to offend him, and I accept the reminder. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u19056	Thank you very much. And now she has the word of Mrs. Representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u19057	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Mr. Secretary with Associates. The requirement to repay the pensioners by the end of the Constitutional Court's decision is not only a constitutional obligation but also a moral obligation for the former government and should be the first of the first obligations of this government.E And what is offered in this sense by this final proposal of the law, on the implementation of the Constitutional Court's decision. There's no solution. As many things are offered no solution in this country, one trap is offered to the pensioners. A whirlwind is offered, and as this whirlwind is summed up, the question is how many pensioners will disappear in that whirlwind or their rights without the right to inherit. Here it is logical that the party of the pensioners and its representative, although they want to confirm their credibility, should in particular be cautious, rational, but it seems as we heard from the representatives of the pensioners that they remain in the faith of the rest of faith. But the naked hope alone doesn't justify you tomorrow in front of the pensioners or all of us. If that hope doesn't have any real cover, then you know then you can't exoccupy that you believed because you knew and believed. And the provisions of these few articles are too clear. They are perfectly clear in their overall ambiguity, insufferableness, and in foggy. So, and what was given a little really and not enough but began to give during the former coalition government I would not now wish to repeat what my colleague Vidovic said. But it wasn't easy either, and then we had an international money fund, behind your neck, and they told you the country was in bad shape. If you want reforms, if you want development, you can't, and we're saying no, we can't, but we have to. And it started. You had the strength to wrestling, and that is one example of how the Ministers speak to international institutions, even in this regard. The principle of solidarity was even mentioned here. What solidarity. Solidarity in one empty hope. In fact, all of this will be left with a single tap. So even from what started, there's no speech. There is no speech here, or it directly follows from the provision of Article 3(2), which states that exactly what was given under the law adopted during the time and provisions adopted during the coalition government to be included in that debt and finally ceases then and ceases when the account is carried out. And then it remains from what was paid for, it remains a naked reckoning. And what a reckoning. No administrative act on a piece of paper. The naked letter on paper, i.e. the naked numbers, where the pensioner can be later, again and in that, from the beginning of the real achievement of his rights, remains neither the naked right because that right can be maimed, and most likely will occur, in that one account where there is no legal remedy. It's not an administrative act, we've seen that the retirement party is also confused, so it's talking about a trade court. What does a trade court have to do with that paper list? We know what its competences are. There's been a lot of chatter here, in fact, the impression that here's where all the pensioners are satisfied. I'm not going to talk here about pensioners who belong to other political options, who have never lied to a retirement party, I'm going to only talk here about those who believed the pensioners whether they were members or not, so it's often been popular here by the old HD to quote some private letters that we never came here to believe at all that they've ever come to an address that was issued as a address book. I will read here Mrs. Stefice K.'s letter of All Public Letter publicly published, sent to Mr. Jordan on the evening list, from Wednesday 14th of July 2004. We've been let down again. Mr. Jordan, how can you say about paying back the pensioners publicly that as far as the dying are concerned, there's nothing you can do about it. You're just like Mr. Sanader and Mrs. Kosor and they were loud at the pre-election meetings. If the late pensioner remains children who are being educated and who are receiving his pension, why not have the right to a debt. And now, I'm stopping reading now, so there's no doubt about it, now in article 5, there's speculation about these 30 days of reckoning, waiting for someone to die. Because it states the provisions of this Act apply to pensioners referred to in Article 2 of this Act whose pension is paid on the day of entry into the Song. Someone's entitled to that moon. It's only worth it because it's expected for a month. Someone else might fall off. So, continues Mrs. Stefica K. from Sesvet. "By your Mr. Jordan state shouldn't return what she took from the pensioners for their lives. That's why we voted for you. How can you say that pensioners are satisfied with what you've done so far? That's what the pensioners ask you, are they who voted for you? No opposition. Except you sold out to HdZ where he instructed us to dig through the trash. Mrs. Kosor is worried about a better standard of living, and she's thinking about how the children his parents died and getting 70% of his pensions. Obviously, we were wrong when we believed and so on. So you see here, you're talking about the fund, so then there's the investment fund going on here, there's a special investment fund law. Who ever here said it was an investment fund? Or you don't even know what the fund is. So there's a question of great faith in that fund. Billy, here's either of us here, especially right now, referring to the representatives of the pensioners, agreeing to pay off their payouts from this fund. No, you wouldn't. No, you wouldn't. always agree to something that's impossible. That's the problem. You see, so only in a few just a few articles it's obvious to be losing what's already been left out. D does not therefore become very questionable whether it will be paid, but I say there are no further obligations for the Government to be paid under the old law, in the case of the existing provision of Article 3(2) following the result of the reckoning. So, Mr. Minister, as long as the government is going to act as it performs an economic recovery, it is talking about reducing unemployment, these proposals of the law are being offered as improvements, as a major reform step in the achievement of that right, and it looks like you will be able to convince the citizens, especially in this case the pensioners with a greater need to perform, to open up the public cuisine in which they will therefore be the most retired.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u19058	I thank Mrs. Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic, and she, as a minister, has caused an avalanche to correct incorrect allegations and we will begin. Who said any injuries to the Rules of Procedure? I didn't see that. ... Let's believe it. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Maria Byte, representative of Maria Byte's injuries to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u19059	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleague Anticevic-Marinović has injured Article 214. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament because by its conduct it deviates from the general rules of conduct in the Croatian Parliament by insulting both the representatives and the Croatian Government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u19060	I don't think so, it's more intense, and the heat as well as the volume doesn't increase arguments than suffers from lack of it. Mr. Frano Matušić has a correction to the incorrect assumption. There are eight of them, so you know.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u19061	It's obviously a lot of incorrect allegations as soon as there's a large number like this, and I'm going to try to make two right. First, it was said that no solution was offered here, or a trap for the pensioners. That's completely incorrect. It is quite clear that it is a concrete and quality solution that has been reached in the agreement and discussion of the government and associations of pensioners and pensioners, and all those who could not and could not agree with them or talk to them can think as the colleague Anticevic thinks. Also, the government does not play any kind of employment increase, nor does the government play some other economic growth data. These are the statistics you so often call upon and so often take them as arguments, but unfortunately today they do not respond to you, but they do not respond to the Croatian public as well.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u19062	There's been more of this, more of your opinions, but what we can do. Mr. Krunoslav Markovovic also corrected the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u19063	In a series of inaccuracies, the vice president said: The provisions were hazy, but they began to be given to the former government. Too bad the pensioners didn't feel that they were given, I guess, because of the foggyness, but they realized that it was given to private companies of coalition partners, that it was spent beyond the law and that the great-grandsons of those same pensioners were also in debt.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u19064	It's also, it's Mr. Representative's statement of opinion as well. I'm asking you to avoid something like that. Well, Mrs. Maria Byte has a correction to an incorrect assumption.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u19065	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. A respected colleague said the Croatian government is offering not a solution to the pensioners but a trap, a push, an empty one, etc. This is an incorrect allegation, as the Croatian government has proposed to the Croatian Assembly the law in an emergency procedure, according to which the right to compensation is exercised, and the first succession order does so. That's the incorrect quote of a respected colleague. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u19066	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative Kajo Bucan. Mr. Representative Bekavac, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u19067	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. The quote I was thinking of correcting has already been corrected by counterpart Matosic and colleague Marija Bajt, otherwise Mrs. Anticevic would not have responded when she was not in the assembly.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u19068	We don't know why she came out, there's probably a reason, and that's not forbidden, so she could come out. A correction of the incorrect quote Mr. Representative Željko Nenadić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u19069	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary with his associates. The parliamentary representative said the coalition government of the Republic of Croatia has made an effort and has begun to repay the debt with great difficulty. This statement shows all the hypocrisy of her entire speech, which she sent here to the Croatian Parliament, and because of the public...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u19070	... [[The speaker is not on, you can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u19071	The correction is so much that the government, the coalition government did not make an effort, because we must remind the public that in 99, Croatia was in charge of $9 billion, 2003. Twenty-four billion dollars, the difference is $15 billion. If there was such a big concern for the pensioners, it is likely that in this debt created from 99 to 2003 they could find a part and return funds to the pensioners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u19072	The lady did not give instructions of 9 and 24 billion, so in this respect she was no correction and I ask that the words be hypocrisy and so on. He's no longer using it, because in a repeated case, I'm going to give you a heads-up. Mr. Luka's breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u19073	Mr. MP violated the 214th article of the Rules of Procedure, so he insulted the MP. Modern policy theorists say this component of politics in the modern world is business, so there is little acting. There we had a bunch of reactions to Mrs. Anticevic's statement that the government was acting on something, and now there are much harder words being used here, so I would ask the vice president to have the same archaic towards both sides. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u19074	Mr. Advocacy in Mrs. Anticevic's speech was a lot of insults that I qualified to be fierce. Listen, Mr. Representative, I'm telling you, you've made an observation. In the same Mrs Anticevic-Marinovic, there were many insults that I qualified to be fierce, and the heat was not prohibited by the Rules of Procedure. So I didn't want to use anything here, and don't accuse me of having a different archaic. I haven't had her either, and I've had quite a reason like I haven't, but in the next one, I said if she repeats that she'll get a warning, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u19075	Excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u19076	More correction to the incorrect quote Mr. Niko Rebic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u19077	I simply agree with those who say that every almost debate of Mrs. Anticevic is at the border of good taste. It is not true that Mr. Sudec sold himself to HDZ as claimed by Mrs. Anticevic. He only voiced confidence in the former government in a very high-quality debate, and this should not be. Well, for God's sakes, you've let down a lot of people, not just retired people, and that picture can't be embellished. She's as much as you don't want her to, the picture of you will remain ugly.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u19078	Also, Mr. Representative, it wasn't a correction to an incorrect allegation. I'm asking you to report for the replica. When you can talk about another, and you can contact the replica for any representation of an individual representative except for a representative of the club. You understand? I beg you, here's eight, it'll never end. Mr Emil Tomljanović is correcting the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u19079	Mr. Vice President, I'd like to correct the incorrect allegations of an esteemed colleague who said, you don't know what an investment fund is. That's absolutely incorrect, not to say it's borderline insult. Both this government and parliamentary representatives know what an investment fund is and what investment funds are, and we know especially what it means to read private letters for daily policy purposes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u19080	As a matter of fact, she has the right to claim that we don't know what an investment fund is. She has such a conviction that we don't know. And listen, what are you doing here? Don't do that. Ms. Zdenka Babic-Petricevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u19081	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen, a colleague who ran out after her exposure as well as...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u19082	She didn't run away. She left.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u19083	I guess she cared about the pensioner, so she went out to the poster. However, spoken words are not justified and are not correct. The whirl of ambiguity, foggy, empty hope, these words disprove this law Article 3. "For compensation", I quote, "the pensioner of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute will determine the difference between the amount of age, early age and disability and family pension belonging to pensioners from 1 September 1993 to 31 December 1998. Retirement payments under the Government of the Republic of Croatia Regulations on the establishment of the highest amounts, the mass of pension payments", etc., etc. So all that she has said, these words disprove this law Article 3. That's one rectification of the quote. Can I have another one right now or will you give me your word?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u19084	You can't because it is, you've wasted your time.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u19085	No, I picked it up twice, I picked it up twice.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u19086	Twice on one...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u19087	No, no, no, I've made a double correction to an incorrect quote. ... No, I'm not giving up now. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u19088	Ma'am, he can't do business. Wait for second chance. Wait a second chance, you could have used a replica, but you can't. ... You picked up, but you got the word and you spent all your time on one question, and you could have made it shorter so you could have two. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Here. No, there's no way according to the Rules of Procedure that on one occasion the correcting of an incorrect allegation twice. [[Let the lady finish.]] There isn't. ... Let's move on with the debate. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] For a word, the word has Mrs. Representative Dr. Ruža Lelic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u19089	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, distinguished secretary of state, colleagues and colleagues. Unlike MP Anticevic-Marinovic, I support and welcome the adoption of the proposed law because we all remember the decisions of the Constitutional Court of 12 May 1998 and of a general opinion, I would say, and the concerns which were at the time ruled that such a debt was impossible to return and that would lead to, in question, the functioning of the state and so on. The value of the proposed law is higher than it is in line with the pensioner's party. We see here that some would like to show that the pensioners are not credible and that they are not able to reason, and they say, they are graying their heads. And I would say that I believe those gray heads and that they must be wise and gray heads. So, the value is that it's consistent with the retirement party, and I'm glad we can read in the public press that the pensioners are satisfied with their co-operation with the government and that the government has respected everything that's been agreed upon. And I would remind you that it's that 100 kuna plus 6% that's included in the retirement base. That there was an increase in the untaxable part of the pension and that pensions line up with salary hikes. So I think that since the pensioner has a million and 19,000, then we can't ignore that opinion, that the government doesn't respect its pre-election promises. By agreeing with the pensioners, the government has shown that it respects them, respects them, deals with them, and agrees with legislative proposals. And the government has proven that it respects and respects both the defenders, that it respects and helps both the Hague and the suspects and the defendants, and that's why many people seem to mind and create this one, and it potentifies one anxiety. But we return to the time of October 1993 when the government adopted a regulation aimed at determining the maximum amount of funds to pay off pensions, and we recall that there was a time of exile, refugees, a period of renewal, preparation for the release of occupied areas, and the pensioners understood that. They were and are wise, patient, but persistent. And finally, what was a rock on the neck of all the governments so far, and they were trying to solve it, in these materials we saw it, what measures were all taken, but obviously they weren't enough and they didn't give enough results. The proposed model of setting up a special fund is certainly neither ideal nor best solution, but it is possible solution because we all know that cash payment money is not available. There was an opinion here that the debt should be paid back and we all agree, but it's not answered to the question of how it's possible to pay back. It is also said that we should carry out a referendum to make the pensioners known, and so on. I think they're all just unrealistic demands. I, when I talk about this debt of pensioners, would remind me of the number already presented, means of a million and 19 thousand pensioners of which we have retirement pensions of about 555, not to list these other figures, disabled 237, family 225, there are also 8 thousand 233 Croatian military pensions. We see that there are not so many and 33,000 Croatian defenders' pensions, including temporary fees from Croatian defenders. These are data from June 2004. Our unfavourable relationship of employees and pensioners has also contributed not only to regular retirement but has been increased by forced retirement, redundancies and company bankruptcy. I would also like to say that 73,000 pensioners receive a pension under 500 kuna. That another 105 thousand has a pension of 500 to 1,000 kuna or that 471 thousand receive a fee under a thousand and 500 kuna, receives a fee of 1,000 kuna and less and the data provided suggest that it is necessary to really improve the social security of most pensioners. The proposed law regulates the question of compensation for pensioners for the period from 1 September 93 to 30 December 98 and adds interest in the flat-rate amount of 2 billion and 300. I appreciate the good news that fund owners will be users of old, early disability, but also family pensions. Because it is often pointed out here that many pensioners have already died, so they will not be able to exercise their rights, and we know that our pensioners, here in the field, are fortunately willing to give up the most necessary to leave their heirs with some of it. It is also important to point out that this will be an inheritance under the proposed law, an inheritance, here, of the first inheritance order. I also support that these provisions do not apply to users referred to in Article 2(2). These are the pensions of military insurance, MPs, political prisoners because they are, and defenders, because these pensions are regulated by a special law, and they are more favourable safely or significantly more favourable than this group of pensioners I've been talking about. I'm only sorry that there are no individual farmers involved because we know that they really have small pensions and that the largest number of them in that category are in 73,000 who have less than 500 kuna but also the fact that the holding of agricultural insurance companies is a shorter duration that was introduced in the 1980s, and so that their contribution that they paid was significantly less than those who paid the employees, so it's a reflection of all that but it's certainly something that they should take account of and help. I'd just like to say here, we've heard a lot of stories here that it's a toy carrot on a willow stick playing, so I'd like to say that I'm really surprised to see one of those, that it's looking back because she's read and listened to some articles that we like to use very much money in Croatia and that it costs about 500 million million dollars a year and that 30% of the money has to be withdrawn annually because it's being spent, that we should follow and get used to how we always stand out in front of developed countries where most of the money or the cards or the Internet or the phone and others are being paid, and also here the big mistrust is being exposed to the stocks. So I think the shares of our future and the investment funds if the stock price is one today, doesn't mean that good business tomorrow won't be much higher, so I think.../ Interrupt on tape./... others do damages and investment funds and stock values. As the calculation of the difference belonging to users will be made by the pension fund and it is said to be around 650 thousand users, it will be a big deal for the fund, and I think that it will have to be careful that some injustices do not create some new injustices. Finally, I support the proposed Law and the establishment of a special Fund, and I expect it to fulfill its task and to repay the debt to the pensioners, which is our obligation and our duty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u19090	Thank you, Madam Representatives. I'd like to inform you that the President of the Parliament has decided to work without a break because we have a lot of reports and we're going to have a hard time, so. Ms. Representative Milanka Opačić please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u19091	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. Namely, there are some groups where I think we should avoid politicizing should avoid unargumented debate, we should avoid mutual arguments and hard words, I think that this population that we're talking about today, and these are the pensioners, and I don't think that they have much use for one part of the debate going the way it is today. I expected that today we would be discussing this topic especially by Mr. Minister with much more arguments and that today we will try to bring here a much better and more quality law which will indeed lead to the standard of our pensioners or better said in this case that the compensation of that population would indeed happen in its fullness. I was four years ago when we passed in this House the law on which, therefore, went to the partial implementation of the Constitutional Court's decision at the time, I advocated that this implementation of the Constitutional Court's decision be carried out as much as possible in money. In fact, I think it's one of the populations that is very important to get help right now, to get money right now, because at that point in time, giving me some papers and some rights that ask God if these pensioners will ever be able to make it happen to me, and then and today I have something that I think is unfair to that population, it's about people who, unfortunately, are dying more and more and more every day, and I can't wait for a half year or a year and let alone some larger period of time to achieve their rights. We were here some 15 or a month ago discussing the Social Pensions Act, and many of us then, my colleagues here mentioned pensioners who are very hard to live or who are even digging through garbage cans or on some kind of markets, so when we talked about them we remember them today and then I think we should discuss only how to take some measures and some solutions that these pensioners have their rights for which the estates have been abolished today and to improve their standard of living. So we decided then four years ago that we were going to pay off what we were able to do in accordance with economic opportunities, it wasn't easy and today the people who are putting together the budget know that it's not easy to find 2 billion and 300 million kuna to pay back this debt to the pensioners, but we did it, and I hope that this government will continue with these payments and thus do everything we can, therefore, in a way that is maximum in relation to the state of the budget and the situation in our economy to help the pensioners. Therefore, the citizens of this country all gave up a large number of their money in solidarity to pay back some of that money to those who once earned it by their work and unjustly in a certain period of time in this country were cut off by part of their pensions. Mr. Jordan said here in his speech: "We believe the government will give good shares.".
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u19092	There's no Mr. Jordan.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u19093	Excuse me, Mr. Judge. This is where he said we believe the government will give good shares. I must say that I cannot accept that we believe it and cannot expect third-age citizens to just believe in the government's good intentions that they will give shares, they are in a position to have guarantees, that they must have a guarantee and all of this must be written in this law and unfortunately there is no such thing as this law. Therefore, this generation cannot expect them to believe in a policy that could be called which would, but they must have in this law written down in that fund that the shares will enter and then know what they really expect within a year. Not to say that here in this law is not talking about anything, this Law is really just a good intention, but there is nothing in this Law, in several articles of this Law is spoken of and only referred to previous laws, previous regulations, preliminary decisions that should be followed, however, the only thing that is said in this Law is that within a year it will be established and started with the work of a special Fund. What a Fund, which the Fund, will be in that Fund about this bill, does not write anything. Is this about the investment fund, is it about the real estate fund because one thing has nothing to do with it, here the minister was talking about the investment fund and then the real estate fund, and therefore it's visible from everything that it's not designed at all, that it's not done at all and that it's still very unarranged, and I think that's precisely why this Charter is unacceptable because it guarantees the pensioners absolutely nothing but one good intention to pay them back. I have to say that we have a dispute and that in this law, pensioners get a reckoning but don't get a solution, so they don't get one piece of paper, which, in our opinion, is something they won't be able to do much with, they won't be able to fight their rights, and that's why we're asking that every pensioner is given a solution that he has the right to appeal on, because there's no possibility of an appeal on a single piece of paper that's not a legal act. On the other hand, I have to say that I think it's good, and that was the lack of what my colleague Davorko Vidovic said, that was the lack of our proposal, and that was that we didn't go to our own individual debt calculation. So here we can welcome that now every pensioner will get his own debt calculation. However, if we want absolute justice, then we will have to find a solution for those who died in the meantime, there are very large numbers. I think that the other day I read in a statement from retirement organizations, that somewhere I think about 300 thousand pensioners from this group who were supposed to get a debt back and that was abolished in a certain period that these people, therefore, died, were gone. However, they too have done their job in their own country and they have built this country and I think they are also responsible and should be given their right when there is a possibility that if a pensioner dies, that the right is passed on to the first inheritance order. I think it should be done for all those who, in the meantime, died. and on behalf of the SDP Club, we will propose this possibility in this law. And there's something else I'd like to say. In fact, we also have many pensioners showing up today during this debate at the club, and a large part of those pensioners have sent us a message that I think should be heard in this assembly, which is that the fact is that they should get their rights. However, as they think about their rights, they think the same way, and we need to make sure that they find it difficult to see their unemployed children, and that they should primarily take care that those children are employed, not that they often support them from such small pensions. And something else, in the pensioners, is, of course, one of their most important segments. However, pensioners also have other needs, have very big problems and I think that the state and in that part should do much more than it has done. and I'll just say that I was consensual when I saw that in the execution of the Croatian budget that we discussed two days ago, the 27 million-dollar intergenerational solidarity administration and 236 thousand kunas were spent only 0.24% or 65 thousand kuna for all programmes that go in favour of third-life citizens. This is about developing service activities for the elderly, where, for example, 5 million and 370 thousand kunas are spent only 27 thousand kunas or 0.50%, and for the daily struggle for older people from the planned 18 million kunas, zero kunas are spent and now projected a 30% reduction. Therefore, not only are pensions what citizens need, there are still some support that the state can provide to facilitate the life problems of third-aged people, unfortunately in this government, these figures show that these tracks are nothing, and therefore the pensioners are one population that needs to worry, so all their problems are solved, not just pension problems. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u19094	Thank you. There's a word Mr. Professor, Dr. Slaven Letica.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u19095	Dear Vice President Baby, the Honorable Minister Vukelic. I listened with great attention to the practical majority of exposure, especially the presentation of Mr. Joseph Sudec, which should in some ways be a moral imperative in relation to our relationship with this legal proposal. If you have observed it, it is because of the wisdom of life, not because of its obligations or coalition or obligations to its electoral body that it has shown sincere gratitude and to the old authorities that it assumed it has done as much in those circumstances, that this legal proposal will also be in favour of the welfare of the pensioners. I want to share first of all as a macroeconist that optimism. I think that funds and unpleasant experiences with funds are the incompetence of the earlier governments of the 90s to correct the problem of fund management, have created some kind of prejudice towards the roles of funds in economic life, even in the ability to fertilize them. In Croatia there are 19 thousand 466 all pensioners who have pensions greater than 4000 kuna. Practically means that Croatian pensioners are poor. In the pre-election program that I worked for the first electoral unit in relation to this subject, meaning debt to pensioners, I insisted that if the HSPs were able to decide on this, that we would not be able to repay anything to the pensioners because the economic opportunities were difficult. And I'm from medical school, and I know that practically for every pensioner, it's just as important health care, social security as it is to get that cash or some other kind of compensation, or the right to repay debt. In that sense, I'm a little bothered by the name of this law, it seems so bureaucratic. If it were some Bill on the Generational or Homeland Thanksgiving, it would mean, on a symographic and fundamental level, some kind of gratitude to generations that have survived several states, dictatorships, wars, work, create and lose less and more. In that sense, I think we need to make a few efforts. The first of these efforts was discussed by Pero Kovacevic and a large number of other debaters, to treat it as a debt and to apply the Law on Inheritance. In that sense, it would be essential to adopt those amendments that will certainly come to those who died in the first place also get those rights. We need to know that in Croatia we will now receive 3 large and powerful funds. The capital fund that exists in pension insurance that has a catastrophic bad administration that could, for example, solve the problem of privatization of the "Sunished Hvar" that has a fund, how many ministers? - A hundred million euros. We will have a defence fund that has about 500m euros, which can also be misused. When I see which people decide to set up a system of governance, I get a little scared, because many of these people know for different reasons. That's where we're going to get one big two-billion-euro fund. We ourselves must believe that the system of management of this fund will enable what Luka Bebić spoke about to fertilize it. It means the pensioners really get something from that fund. In that sense, I have a very concrete proposal. And it reads like this: what pensioners can get virtually absolutely guarantee that this fund will not be a fraud, is that they are given 25% and one part of the INA at their disposal. 25% plus one part of INA that tends, here you see Mr. Judge agrees, we under the INA Privatisation Act, we will be able to privatise that 25% plus one share only at the time of entry into the European Union. All trends indicate that the INA stock is growing. We already do not know who represents the interests of the Croatian state, or the Privatisation Fund there. We have several retired directors of the INA who were generally capable and honest people and from the left of the type... And all sorts of conservative right-handers. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We could put one man's INA supervisory board right now. I don't know what the estimates would be, but I think it's almost the market value of that 25 plus one share of INA, slightly less than 2 billion euros. And what would we achieve? In order to benefit from the dividends, around 50m euros could be made at an annual level in the years up to that privatisation. This means that every pensioner in Croatia would get about as much as the old government provided the pensioners. So let me get this straight. I think we have a kind of responsibility that goes beyond interparty bickering and a fight of a guy that you did or didn't do. I think that as a chalk we should take Mr. Joseph Judge's exposure, so that they and I talk when I talk about pensioners, I think about my mother-in-law. They express their gratitude to anyone who gives them a little bit, both in the name of that law and in the name of the future fund and in the responsibility of the government not to put some smudges, frauds, different types of people who will succeed in destroying this portfolio, so that it is one national project of general consensus, which will look at the political readiness of not one party or another but at the Croatian Parliament to fertilise this fund and to help develop the Croatian economy and to repay not only the material debt towards the pensioners but also the symbolic debt. And as for the right to health care, I ask that a little more serious consideration be given to this and that this type of protection of pensioners and the provision of health care is also seen as one essential way of repaying one generation debt to that generation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u19096	I thank Mr. Representative. Now he has the word Mr. Representative Silvano Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u19097	Honorable Vice President, Honorable Minister, Secretary General, Assistants, colleagues and colleagues! At the beginning of my presentation, I would like to warn my colleagues and colleagues of the Croatian Parliament not to be in Krlež's match without the need for representatives of the Croatian party of pensioners because I am quite sensual and recognize when something is said about people with reluctance. This goes to my colleague Anticevic's address and I'm asking her to appreciate it. I'm asking you to respect it because I've felt it and I'm just saying my honest feelings and emotions and we're not going to open up the polemics. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Furthermore, I repeat and underline for the tenth time one thesis that I speak on behalf of those who have chosen me. They are grateful to all governments for the efforts they have made so far to solve this problem. However, they have their right to believe that not enough has been done and that they are looking for a step more and are essentially looking for a final step. This law ahead of us is the result of an 11-year struggle between pensioners' associations and should be respected. Perseverance, perseverance, to come to the final result. This law is also a compromise because do not think that Croatian party MP Silvano Hrelja would not like to meet all the wishes that are being said here, which is that they have all the right and those who have died and those who are not to pay everyone in cash, but in negotiations we have met with the difficult problems of this country and of course we had to commit to the Constitutional Court's decision to do the damage and end the process in accordance with the economic possibilities of the country, and we would do so to this party who is in power and to any party that it is in power because our goal was to solve the problem to the end. So we should respect the compromise, a compromise that is consistent with pensioners' associations. This law therefore includes and does not exclude anyone who has made a personal contribution and here sits people who have made a personal contribution to partial resolution and I repeat, grateful associations are for this and I think and individual pensioners. Furthermore, this law does not endanger other entities to the users of the state budget in anything. So he doesn't take another to give to the pensioners, but he deals with the thought and the idea of creating a value that would compensate for the debt, so from which the compensation would be paid. So it can't stand the phrase that the Croatian party of pensioners is a parasitic party to seek something at the expense of another. I follow the good news and I know well that it appeared with the appearance of the Croatian party of pensioners as a parliamentary party in public press. We are definitely proving by this that we are taking care of everything and that we have the right to exist on the political scene of Croatia as an equal political partner and we are responsible for what we do and do. And believe me, here I give my word if something goes wrong here we'll honestly say it went wrong, that we can't get to the end we imagined. I think it's fair to treat your voters that way. This law is a function of satisfying the rule of law and social states and it is undeniable. To be completely fair, this law has been late for six years, and of course it goes to the souls of the former governments. And why is that? Because only this law individualises the settlement of debt compensation for pensioners, which has always been a prerequisite for a final solution to the problem. Without individual reckoning, there is no luck that we will complete the process and we have now made a bold step towards individualizing this solution to this problem. And it should also be said that we have brought down the trees and stones on this or heard today in this assembly on this law. This is only the first step in the process of solving the problem, so the first step not to wait, not to delay the procedure, so that as soon as possible it starts to count and to recognise it as such a debt and to enter into this accounting mechanism and to find out how much this famous amount of compensation is. Because I'm sorry to explain things to you. When this is calculated one group of pensioners will be overpaid, one will be paid completely and according to one group, I don't know what those figures are, there will be a debt. Because, you know, when we were returning or returning to a good cause, the individual debt was returned with a shovel, so it's the same for all of us, they were three months retired, and they were paid a hundred kuna and 6% full five years, and that's for every praise, because especially the next step because we didn't go into this process to cancel or ban the payment of 100 kuna and 6%, but we integrated those 100 kunas and 6% into retirement and now from that position, so without losing it, we go into the final calculation of this compensation. So that gives us both a moral justification and a position to do what is right and to do what is right. Now she's having trouble with the fund. I won't even be here as much as the promoter is talking about the investment fund. I keep myself in the framework of the law the way he does, and it's a special fund, and I'm willing to look very hard for the next three months and work on the literature to find an adequate formula to make this fund work best. I've been given some knowledge that there are also funds that emit mortgage bonds independent of the budget. It's just like an idea. Today we won't discuss it, nor do I want to spread the story. But that would speed up, speed up the resolution of this debt. Because, you know, skeptics will always be skeptics, but let them remember Newton's saying, "Give me a long enough lever, I'll run the country."". Give us real estate and stock not enough to cover the nominal, but to be fertilizing, that is, to change the purpose, we will return it, we will return it. And look, there's another saying that I'm happy to quote, and I'd like us all to take this as part of the process and quote one man who's in II. The world war in very difficult times for the UK said, "This is not the beginning of the end," let this be the end of all the beginnings of solving this problem and let us definitely end it. It will contribute to the present but also to all future governments that it will not be done. And there's going to be a pension problem. We don't need to open pillar I today, there's going to be a terrible, terrible lot of them, and that's what's waiting for us tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u19098	I thank Mr. Representative Silvan Hrelja. And the replica was answered by Mr. Ivan Bagarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u19099	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I just needed to say this now, what I'm going to say is, congratulations, Mr. Collar's colleague, on an honest and realistic step. Obviously, you're honestly representing the interest of the pensioners and you're more invited than all of us here to do so. That's why, ladies and gentlemen, we are following this step to the satisfaction of all, especially the pensioners. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u19100	Thank you, thank you very much. You can express satisfaction because the replica does not specify what is to be said. I inform the representatives that three committees are now working, and in part we can explain the relative void of our benches, you know, but I would pray for the public, because of all the representatives who have been staying in the cafe for a long time to shorten that stay in the cafe and to join us because it's a serious topic. It's like this my suggestion that no one has to accept. Mr. Representative Zvonimir Mršić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u19101	Honorable Vice President, respected ministers and associates, esteemed ladies and gentlemen. First of all, I would like to say as a young man and a young representative, therefore, a new representative, not a young but a new one, that I am taking responsibility for myself that from the future incomes of this country I think we should repay the debt to the pensioners. And I think that today we're all here agreeing that the debt should be paid back we're only arguing about whether this law defines whether this debt really will come back and how it will come back. By this law, I think that the Croatian party of pensioners agreed to convert cash into a guarantee card and we all understand that the guarantee card is no longer valid. Yesterday I was called by a gentleman from Dubrovnik, a pensioner and said don't vote for this Act because if this Law is so good, then why don't our MPs from the pensioners' ranks argue that their salaries are paid out of that fund. Why, then, the Minister of Economy and the Prime Minister do not solidize and insist that their salaries are paid out of that fund, but they promise us some ideal solution that we will get back our pensions or what the state has taken from us. It would indeed be truly sincere and fully convincing then that the leaders of this country also bind their destiny to something that is very socially sensitive, perhaps one of the most important socially sensitive issues in this country. I spoke with local representatives of the pensioner party this morning, otherwise more pensioners voted in Koprivnica for a list that I was on than for a retirement party and fine. Is it? So I spoke to the president of the retirement party and he told me that they were told that the party of the pensioners was put before the final act, take it or leave it. So they were not offered any great thinking or possibility of alternatives. What this Law, I think, is that the three hands of the Croatian pensioner party are worth a lot more in this HDZ Assembly than this proposed Law, and I think that they can be more entrenched in the interests of all pensioners in Croatia. What does this Law bring us? In fact, this Law defines that the notification will determine the difference between pensions in one period and pensions in another period and that this will be the basis for determining the value and assets of a fund that will be defined in the future. So, the pensioners will be compensated, they won't be reimbursed, they'll be compensated, and that compensation is not defined here in any way, whether it's going to be 1%, 2%, 100%, whether it's going to be 200% compared to what's going to be written on that note. For example, what will happen, let's be optimistic, radiate optimism, which will happen if the fund is really a great deal of business and if the fund's contributions are such that pensioners' shares increase to double and triple the value of what was written on the notice. Whether pensioners, pensioners, pensioners, or pensioners will only make that contribution, or they will be paid only as much as on the notice, the notice will be written. After all, it is not said here that pensioners will be involved in a future fund, it is not said that they will be established in that future fund, it is not said what will happen to the management company of that future fund, whether they will be able to decide who will manage that future fund or not. The word here is that the pensioners will be compensated for the burden of some future fund. Much more honest would be the intentions of Vlae, including the collegiate partner of the Croatian Retirement Party, if we had really received the whole package. 6 months was enough to draft this law, to draft the Investment Fund Act and to say which shares and properties will be entered into that investment, investment fund. After all, there is no telling whether it will be a closed or open investment fund, which is one of the very important issues. I unfortunately have negative experience with PIFs and PIF's privatisation. There is a company in Čakovec that is now in major problems of MTC where a PIF, i.e. a PIF management company, drew huge money on a monthly basis in the name of consulting services and finally when he pulled all the money, all the stocks were sold, or returned to the state. Today, the company is in bankruptcy, the fund management company will even allegedly receive 500 million kuna damages from the state or from HFP in the name of the stock price difference, spreading its wealth across the Adriatic and 1,000 međimurje will remain on the street. The same, same PIF management company was pulling huge money out of Podravka. For one consulting service, 15 thousand euros were withdrawn monthly from Podravka, and they did not finish the job they were paid for. Nobody, nobody, nobody. That's what I'm afraid of. I'm really scared of that. I'm afraid because pifovska privatization had an extremely negative impact on the development of the economy in Croatia and pifovska privatization had a negative impact on privatisation in the Republic of Croatia. What's going on here is one of the questions, how will the value of the fund be determined? Whether, for example, the shares entered into the fund will be determined on the basis of nominal value or market value at that time. Will real estate be entered according to the values in books, therefore, accounting or market value? These are very important questions that we unfortunately have no answer to today. We have no answer to what will happen with future contributions from the fund and will the compensation be paid to the burden of the contribution or to the burden of the underlying capital? Therefore, whether that investment fund will sell, buy or only manage what is transferred to it, then compensation will be paid on the basis of the contribution from these funds. Today someone here mentioned two or three times the Croatian Pension Insurance and Capital Fund. A huge fund, a huge fund with huge capital, with huge stakes in the Croatian economy, with a very large nomenclature that manages these companies, or sits on supervisory committees. In order to make this easier decision, the Ministry of Economy, or the Ministry of Labour and Social Care, may have helped us to subdue the data that has been happening to that fund for the past 10 years. How much market capitalisation did that fund grow, how many dividends were selected from the foundation of that fund? And what would be most important to me as an agent, and especially to the representatives of the pensioners, to see how many pensioners are sitting in the supervisory boards of companies whose shares have this fund and how much money is based on sitting on the supervisory boards belonged to those members, those representatives of that fund. Perhaps part of the debt to the pensioners could have been paid back that these representatives were sitting free of charge in those funds, and from that, therefore, from those fees they received as members of the Supervisory Board, that we were paying the pensioners in cash. The same question arises as to who will sit on the supervisory boards of companies whose shares are in this fund and whether they will take the money, whether it will be pensioners or they will take the money for themselves. The state needed on itself full responsibility. Maybe she should have really set up a fund, but for the risk of that fund, that fund's business needs to be borne by the state, and she was supposed to issue bonds to the pensioners, and then we'll say, okay, we'll make out of that fund's business so we can pay those bonds. Maybe it's not a bad idea for a fellow Hrelje to issue bonds for which the state will guarantee. That would, therefore, be the solution and then the pensioners could truly be safe. And finally, I'm a little worried, and I'm afraid this law doesn't experience the fate of the VAT Act and the Eco-fishing Law, or we don't decide here again to postpone its application before it really comes into force. I want to tell everyone, and especially the pensioners who supported me in the elections and who are watching this transfer today, that I am fully prepared as an agent to take responsibility for the pensioners in the future, them and their successors...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u19102	Finish it, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u19103	I'm done. Pay back the debt, but the debt in cash, or something that will be directly charged. And... Ma'am, you were sitting in the Parliament, I wasn't. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] And... Please, and an offer if I can make. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I am prepared to give two hectares of the country in the business zone in Koprivnica to this fund of management to open up an entrepreneurial facility there, to open up jobs, to open jobs because the investment fund and that out of income will manage it...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u19104	Thank you very much. You've been well past your time and it's nice to have two acres to give to this fund. Great. Here, I also personally thank Mr. Mr. Mr. Gristle as a two-hectare contribution that he will personally make. ... You're not the city. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] You're not the city, sir. You're Mršić. The word has Katarina Fuček for replica and two corrections of incorrect allegations, here.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u19105	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I listened very carefully to my colleague Mršić, especially when he introduced himself, I am a young man and I assumed that as a young man, a young representative, someone who lives in the course of time and supports new trends will surely support this bill that will also enable the establishment of a fund where they will later fertilise, meaning, shares that will be an integral part of the fund. Since the pensioners aren't just the pensioners of one party, they're all in all parties, I have the feeling that he's being held back again as a young man and a party staff to support this very proposal. So he prejudged some items by discussing it and asking hypothetical questions whether, why, how, when in fact this bill did not address the issue of the fund at all. He did not solve it, but he certainly knows who should and when to propose that law so that this debate of yours would be relevant.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u19106	Replica reply, Mr. Zastavnik Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u19107	Well, you, colleague Fuček, are absolutely right when you claim that this law does not solve anything, and I fully agree there, and I do not mind the party's discipline to agree with you. But let me, I spent part of my professional career on business dealings with investors and I know a little bit about investment funds in the Republic of Croatia, I know them. I know them, I know some capital management companies, or funds. I know the financial public and the financial market, and for this reason I have explicitly spoken these questions, or argued on certain matters. And it would really be a lot easier for us to discuss if we got answers to all the questions I was talking about. Because I repeat, pifovska privatization is in these two specific cases, but in many others it has a very negative impact on the development of the economy in Croatia. And it would be good to see how much the exiles got from the pifs when they invested their shares in the funds. So these are some questions that would be very easy for us, so it would be easier for us to answer these questions that this is asking. This is a statement of only one political will, this law and this law is a statement of one coalition agreement. He really does not solve anything, he just says that in the future, something might be resolved and perhaps sees the way in which it will be found and done. But let me know about the financial public but I know something small and I know how to manage funds.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u19108	It's not enough. You know as well as others. Now, there are two corrections to incorrect allegations. Mr. Franjo Arabovic, first.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u19109	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, I would like to correct Mrsic's imprecise quote at the beginning of his presentation. I'm going to quote him, "We all know that the guarantee card is no longer valid": That's not clear to me at all, I couldn't understand-- I know it's worth it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u19110	Correction of the incorrect quote, Mr. Agent Ivan Bagarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u19111	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I am correcting your inaccuracies on these three hands of the pensioners, as they are worth more or less to HDZ in themselves, etc., that is not true, but I am showing you this hour that these are not three hands but that these are three honorable advocates who support this government and that then the government's programmes would be compensated for the pensioners they advocate. It's one thing, and the other thing is really incorrect and hypocritically asking these people to give up their wages to prove they're fighting for the pensioners. If you're gonna play like that we're a little younger let's talk about you and me giving up that pay to help the pensioners.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u19112	You can't ask questions like that. If you give up parliamentary wages, no one has to give up especially mayoral if it's bigger. Mr. Joseph Leko, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u19113	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I think this is a really sensitive topic for a number of reasons. In fact, the sensitive population of the people we talk about is sensitive for reasons that for a long time it has been claimed that there is no debt or compensation, and we know who claimed it. And now we're talking about a solution that's not accurate, it's not fully designed, and then the Assembly talks about it in categories of optimism and pessimism. This bill of law can really just look pessimistic or optimistic because the final solution is gone, there is no proposal no material. I would really like to be realistic, so I will say that the value of this proposal is in the recognition of the Government of the Republic of Croatia or the HDZ Government that the debt exists and that the Constitutional Court should be implemented. That's the value, that's what the pensioners got on it. Second, it should be pointed out that Article 3 indeed determines that the debt is in question and that the compensation is in question. So debt and compensation, that's how the law qualify. But there is really one big problem, and I want to point it out. Debt is recognised and compensation is to be determined and given but it is not recognised that pension is a personal right, retirement is not a matter of collectiveity, not a pensioner's association or a pensioner's party, they may have the legitimacy to negotiate but we have admitted that there is a debt to the pensioner in the period 93. 98. who retired from retirement, early retirement, disability pensions and family pensions, we admitted. If this is a personal right, we will come without a personal attitude not to ask for the exercise of personal rights, no personal statements, no personal evidence. So here and there was a statement of a type of pigeon, a sparrow, a ray, of course they were all right, when there was no solution then it really goes into the sphere of speculation because of that I would pray that there is no spread optimism until we have a defined problem in general. He's heavy in my court and from a legal point of view. It should be given and determined by a solution to the extent that the difference is not paid. By period 93. In 98, when it is established, a personal statement must be made that the debt or debt is to be converted into securities and the decision that the securities will be in the fund, whatever the fund will be called, and then pray to God that this Fund will be financially issued but again we come up with a problem as long as the debt is paid when the debt is paid. Because the right and the property still remains, the securities have not been spent. I hope that Croatia's economy is growing and the economy is growing that during the period during which this fund, debt and fund will be able to reject more than the debt of pensioners. We're actually coming into a problem that we're not aware of because that's how we're going to create pensioners who now have a regular pension fund, maybe some pillar, in a pension fund plus a special fund in which we allegedly gave the best shares. Please, if we are aware to install this into the legal system of the Republic of Croatia, there will be other requirements justified to compensate for something that was not in accordance with the law. From the point of view of the debate who did what, it is not productive debates and surely the pensioners and citizens know it, but it should be said that the debt is paid and paid by means of payments, and in Croatia it is defined even by the law considered as means of payment. None of the assets are included in the means of payment. That is why I think that the Government of Ivica Racana has not only admitted that there is a commitment to the pensioners and that the Constitutional Court's decision to respect but also in accordance with the legal system of the Republic of Croatia in cash has paid back the debt. Of course it doesn't always have to be that way. But if we're going to be honest, and we're going to have to be honest, then it would be much better for the pensioners to be safer, for the state more in line with the legal system that the government guarantees debt recovery and let it set up a special fund. Even so, the right to do so will not be able to take away anyone when she has now confessed to it. Let the government find out what the shares are, set up a fund as it wants the fund to operate at the risk of the government and let the pensioners get a dividend from that fund. All in accordance with the Law, with the legal system and the legal certainty of repaying debt and compensation, absolutely certain. If we stay, the pensioners will manage the fund as part owners, as paper owners. We're going to learn really in a statement that some pensioners will have a privileged position with the state, because I believe in that fund, and I believe that the Croatian economy will advance and that this fund will be rich, I just don't know when. I don't know when. I don't know when. And no one knows when. Because as far as I'm concerned, the rye is prepared, but I don't know if the rabbit's coming. If the pensioners believe this each time per person I hope you will give him the right to declare whether he believes it, then bring a solution to every pensioner who is less paid pensions from 93 to 98, than it was intended by regulations to give him a solution, so let it be apparent whether he believes in a rabbit or not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u19114	Thank you. Mrs. Representative, Dear Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u19115	Mr. Vice President, Madam Secretary of State with an associate, colleague and colleague. In fact, when we discuss this law, we should in one acceptable way explain to potential users of this law what this law guarantees them. Here already, a colleague from the retirement party said that this should be the final step in this debt recovery process as we are popularly telling pensioners. In fact, in its first article, this law says, in fact, that recognition is, that there is a debt, that it is determined by the Constitutional Court's decision, and in further articles it shows the intention to possibly resolve it. He also acknowledges this law has already tried to find a solution to this problem, and that is what article 3 of this law says. Namely, I would ask the question here, because it's hard to find an answer from such engaged articles of this law, what does that mean for the laws that are now, which are now being applied? Article 2 states that the right to compensation will be granted by users of age-old age, disability, family pensions granted under the Law on Fundamental Rights of Pension and Disabilities Insurance, etc. all the laws for the period referred to in Article 1(1) of this Act are listed, i.e. the period for which the Constitutional Court has stated that pensions have not been paid under the law, i.e. from 1 September 93 to 31 December 98. But further in Article 3, what will be taken into account in the calculation of such a suspension of pensions, so to speak. In accordance with Article 21(2) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013, the Commission notes that, in the light of the above, it is appropriate to adopt implementing acts in accordance with Article 21(3) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013, the Commission should adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 21(3) of Regulation (EU) No 1305/2013 and in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Regulation. A small pension law, which is those 100 kuna plus 6%, probably those 50 kunas that were before that. It is said in paragraph 3 that it will also be the funds paid since 2001 under the Retirement Law to remove differences in the level of pensions achieved in different periods. If so, this would be followed by the fact that, when an account is made as stated in Article 3 of these differences, so account should be taken of what is at that time, so by 7 months 2005 at the latest, because by then the calculation of individual accounts for each of the pensioners in this period has gone into retirement, this would mean that no longer applies the Retirement Enlargement Act in order to eliminate differences in pension levels. What does that mean? Then will that law be abolished? If it won't be lifted, then there's a dilemma. Article 3 acknowledges that this law constitutes a repayment of the debt. And beyond that, it doesn't mean that after this reckoning, it's no longer a repayment of the debt. So there are a lot of ambiguities and dilemmas that we cannot read from a bill like this. A law that can be interpreted in different ways, indeed, and which is unclear then arises from a very big problem. Article 3 further states that each pensioner, or pensioner who left that period in retirement, will receive an account. Already here, colleagues said that it should not remain so in the law, that a solution should be made as an administrative act, a solution by which one who receives such a solution can actually be regretted. We therefore propose certain amendments to Article 4, where we would like to make that clear, that this is not just a matter of oral interpretation in the debate, or a presentation of this proposal of the law of the Proposer, in order for the difference set out in paragraph 1 of Article 4. The Croatian Pension Insurance Institute also issues a solution, and that this solution is also issued for the deceased pensioners to whom it is transferred to the first succession order. So all those who are in an even position, so those who will use this right to do so, because they are still alive and unable to use it, since this right is said to be inherited. And just a few sentences around this fund. Personally, I think you should say in this law what kind of fund it's gonna be. It's said here, it's going to be a fund in which shares and shares will be transferred, so it's supposed to be an investment fund. At the same time, it is said that there will be some real estate here, so it could be a real estate fund or a real estate management fund. So, just to clarify that there are no dilemmas that are actually going to form this fund, it would be good to already say in the existing law what, what this fund will be and what will be introduced into that fund, because we are only getting oral arguments here under this law. It would have been far better if we could have, perhaps not been in such a hurry, but at the same time we have this law and a bill on the fund. And maybe I'll just say something about the fund. So we don't know at this point how much money it takes, how much money it takes to get into that fund, because only after a year will we have a full calculation. After that, we don't know what's going to be the property of that fund? Whether it will be an investment fund managed by a company management company whose shares or shares will be entered into that investment fund. I've already told you if it's gonna be real estate, so it's gonna be a company for real estate management or traffic. However, it is important to tell our citizens who will get rights, or a solution to this reckoning that they will not really win, they will only get a reckoning or a solution, they will not get shares or real estate. They will receive money from what will be transferred to that fund during that period or during those periods when there will be a contribution to those shares, when a contribution to how real estate will be managed or when those shares, shares or real estate will be sold. Those who are a little more involved in stockholders and stock exchanges know that stock exchanges, speculative jobs, and that at one point, they can very high quotes, bring high yields, at another point can really fail and be worthless papers, and that is what there is and a potential risk in which way they will manage that fund, which will be the shares, which will be the activities, whether in the next five or ten years they will be pro-pulsive or will be activities that will be slightly deprived, which will have no profit and which will not be able to bear such contributions that could then be used to pay off such large funds, in fact for which our citizens are looking for. And in the end, I would say that we should not, no matter what happens since 1993, really should not once again pass a law relating to this population of pensioners that would mean a great disappointment to them. It would be worth more to discuss it more, to discuss it longer, to know all the elements of it so that we know what will be in that fund, how it will be managed, what shares will be in them, and that we can at least say in the next five years what will happen to these shares. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u19116	I thank Mrs. Representatives. It's Mr. Representative Milan Meden's turn.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u19117	Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, representatives of the Government, colleagues and colleagues! My colleague, Silvano Hrelja, from Istria, really spoke very precise, empty, comprehensively and clearly, but I will only remind you that the proposed law should remove the injustice committed to pensioners from September 1993 until June 1998 and due to inadequate pension alignment with the growth of minimum wages, there was actually a great delay in average pensions compared to the average salary. It was also found during the constitutional court procedure that pensions from July 1993 to December 1997 actually increased twice as much as salaries. This is not so long ago because we are certainly all remembering the proposal to assess the constitutionality of the law on the harmonisation of pensions that were then delivered to the Constitutional Court by the Retired Union of Croatia, then the Matica of Croatian pensioners of the Republic of Croatia, then the City of Zagreb, the Dubrovnik branch and the personal Mirjana Gertrud-Gerovec and Jovanka Nemet. In fact, they are dignitaries and pioneers of today’s bill of law and evidence of the existence of a saying that justice always wins. In fact, they became winners on May 12, 98, when the Constitutional Court abolished the specified provisions of the contested pension harmonisation law. Known circumstances between 1993 and 1997 therefore war, destruction, refugees, victory of integration of all occupied areas do not really justify injustice to pensioners but it is also difficult to justify the non-implementation of the Constitutional Court's decision. All the time since then, we have witnessed the politicalization of this problem, the repayment of debt, and this is happening here and in the assembly today. Mršić, who is now gone, spoke very critically about the past six months of this government and said there was plenty of time for making one whole law and calculating the debt. Since I have access here in a conference on the Internet I actually looked around relevant time four years ago at this time what was happening in the media and so that we could make a parallel when we talk about the same time this government or that government had and I managed to quickly find an inscription here from 18 May 2000 in the New List which is actually very similar to the same time, so I'm going to quote so that we all hear together here and the public. So on May 18, 2000, "The proposal for a debt repayment programme for pensioners, although it was obtained three weeks ago, the light of the day has not yet been seen. The same members of the task force that developed the programme are committed by silence. Obligations to the country's most numerous social group, therefore, are one of the most difficult problems that Racan's government has yet to face, due to pre-election promises made to pensioners. But resolving that tough nut could cost the country development. Unofficial estimates indicate that the state owes about 40 billion kuna and the nearest Ivica Racan cabinet has not even touched the issue yet. Social-economic policy is a key issue or test that Racan's cabinet must pass next month." So this was a quote from the New List of May four years ago. I also tried to see what happened after four years, so right after the election and after the votes were counted. 26th November 20003. Free Dalmatia, so right after the election. With three mandates, Croatia's pensioner party is the biggest surprise of parliamentary elections. When asked a journalistic question given that the debt occurred at the time of HDZ how realistic it is to expect a shift to the better... Sanader Prime Minister and Vladimir Jordan, president of HSU, says, "Look, if we want to go to Europe... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The laws will have to apply to everything. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The Constitutional Court has made a decision that must be respected. I heard Sanader at the pre-election rally said the debt could not be recovered from the budget. It is a significant step forward, he thus indirectly acknowledged its existence." So, after this politicization we've been listening to all day, I actually wanted to make one parallel of the meaning of the Constitutional Court proposal to date. Since then, Doctor Ivo Sanader has become Prime Minister of our Government, Croatia has gained candidate status, so I am talking about Europe and today I hope that all MPs will give full support to this draft law implementing the Constitutional Court. The law will finally allow the return of the pensioner's debt and hopes to finally remove the debate from Croatia's political scene. The key mechanism is given a provision in the law that speaks of the establishment of a special fund that will form and begin work within a year of the entry into force. The assessment of the situation and the consequences to be addressed by the adoption of the law under point 3 reads "The adoption of the proposed law will improve the material and social status of pensioners." My fellow Members and fellow representatives, gentlemen of the Government, will agree with me that the adoption of the law is not enough, although it is a very important instrument and strategy for the establishment of the whole but in fact a difficult job is yet to be set up and set up the fund and the calculation of the amount to be made for 650 thousand fund users or pensioners. Very often today we have actually heard here about the calculation of how it will be calculated, whether it already existed, whether it should have already been done by the former government, whether this government but indeed responsiblely argue that this is a simple job for IT experts who I believe exist within the government, if not certainly in this country impeccable. It is very important to set the algorithm correctly and this calculation should not last longer until the end of this year. That is my responsible claim, regardless of the amount of the pensioner's pensioner's claim. And also, I would like to propose for analysis and speed up procedures the findings and opinions of the court expert, Master Ivan Tkalec, whose statement was actually delivered in a public debate initiated by the Constitutional Court. So, we have knowledge, we're overly politicizing, I don't think that's mathematically difficult to do. Today during the debate, questions were raised which are actually the shares that would enter the fund's portfolio, and I think my colleague from Istria is particularly... And speaking in particular, they question the value of the shares. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Stocks are on the market, they change daily, so so will the shares that enter this fund. There was too much pessimism in the performances of colleagues from the opposition, but the main issue is that these companies remained state-owned and how to access privatisation measures, what transfers of shares in the fund's portfolio. First of all, the objectives should be economical, with the principles of profit-making from the rightful owner. We heard besides the mentioned valuable shares of electricity and INE, HT and Croatian forests, I must remind you that in the state portfolio there are remained and shares of complete shipbuilding, almost all agricultural combinations, and from tourism of nearly 30 companies that can still be sold through public collection of offers. Therefore, I responsibly claim that this... for this Fund. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And so is e.g. A newly founded company of Brijuni and a 75 per cent Riviera owned by the state, I see no reason that in the end... in the portfolio of this fund. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Why is the fund a real solution, investment funds are actually the most attractive way in which institutional and individual investors gain access to numerous and global markets and campaigns. The owner of the fund's share is not the owner of individual investments in the fund but is the owner of a proportional share of the total assets of the fund, depending on the number of shares it has passed on. So, in this case, it's our pensioners. Investment funds are managed by fund managers that define the types of securities that the fund will invest in either shares, bonds, instruments... the markets and in which measures these instruments will be represented in the assets of the fund. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And finally, I want to say, it's not about the ownership and portfolio of the fund, it's about the management of the fund. At the sites of the fund management company, the fund managers cannot and must not be placed politically similar managers, but people who are well-known in the securities business and have references, then the debt of the pensioners will be a significant economic potential and... Part of this political debate. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I sincerely believe that both the government and the HSU will follow these economic principles and the debate on the debt of pensioners will leave this assembly bench at the time of our term. Since we have a goal and strategy, let us not waste time because some 25 thousand pensioners die annually. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u19118	Thank you. We have two replicas. First Mr. Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u19119	Thank you, dearly respected colleague, speaking of those who spoke to the Constitutional Court on the basis of whose demands came to the assessment of the constitutionality he also mentioned the queen of the pensioners... and the winners and councilmen of this bill. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] If the majority of parliament wanted today, we could discuss the proposal of the Retired Queen on the same subject, which had not fully accepted this proposal, in particular because of that part of the debt in 95 to 98 due to the miscalculation of the initial pension. Secondly, 15 minutes ago, I also spoke to people in pensioners' associations in Medjugorje and a pensioner's party who asked me to publicly tell you that they do not accept this bill and that they are fellow Judge III. election units are asking to come to Međimurje and explain what this Law actually says. Therefore, it is incorrect that the queen is a messenger and a winner because their bill could not be discussed in this House unfortunately.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u19120	The answer to Mr. Milan Meden's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u19121	My colleague, I'm... prescribed the contents of this in the Constitutional Court, from the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia, where the queen is mentioned among other things. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, you will agree with me that the queen is certainly one of the princes in which they contributed today to discuss this, the proposal of this Law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u19122	Thank you very much. Replica Mr. Nikola Vuljanić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u19123	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. The fellow representative has been talking all along about the credibility and generosity of the state government, which will establish a fund in which such shares will certainly be able to compensate the pensioners for the injustice and return what has been violently taken away from them. I can't believe that the state government's generosity from the simple fact that if the state gave up the most valuable shares it has in its portfolio, it gave up a nice portion of its revenues for the state budget, which, of course, was not seen in yesterday's discussion anywhere yesterday. No one has any intention of doing that. No one has any intention of doing this current state power has the intention of delaying the problem, pushing it two, three, four, five years aside. Of course, for the first years, the fund won't have much income, so it won't be able to pay back anything, and by then we'll see, that's the real intention of the legislator of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u19124	... [[The speaker is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u19125	I spoke very crediblely as you admitted, I was talking about models of possible investment in portfolios but I also honestly believe in the operation of this investment fund and I'm only going to give you one piece of information that actually, just a moment, that the total investment funds invested in the first half of 2001 in the United States and Europe amounted to about 10 trillion US dollars and that actually these represent the largest movements of capital in the world market, and I also believe that this fund will.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u19126	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative Drazen Bosnjakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u19127	Mr. Vice-President, Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues have already been quite told today about the proposal of this law with a large dose of emotion that only speaks of the importance of this topic and the importance of the issues that are being addressed by this law. I don't think it's questionable, and it's not at all a question of whether there was a certain debt to the pensioners, it was indeed paid less in the period from 93 to 98 because it was the decision of the Constitutional Court that put one law out of force and it was obvious that in that period the pensioners were paid in less than they needed to be paid under the law that was then in force. And I don't think there's a need for a big debate. I also don't think that there should be a debate about who's to blame, whether someone's robbed someone, whether someone's taken something from someone but I think it's necessary to look at the situation that was actually in the country at the time, to see how Croatia lived at the time. So we would remember that we had high military costs, and high police costs, high costs for refugees, exiles, renovations, defenders, and on the other hand the conditions were such that there was no possible economic expansion in Croatia at the time from which the state budget would be charged and that it would be enough for everyone. Apparently, the pensioners unfortunately didn't get enough in that story, they didn't get as much as they needed but they weren't the only ones and the other categories got less. And I agree the secretary of state said it very nicely, it didn't get married but it just couldn't be given because it wasn't for everyone. And I think that we should concentrate on the law that is before us and that is the law that we can't say that he returns the debt, which we can't say that he says clearly the debt will come back in that and that and that way, until then and then, this is just the first step and this is the basic thing this law says in its article 1st compensation for the beneficiaries of pensions under the provisions of this Act will be achieved through a special fund. The Special Fund will establish a specific law to regulate its activity, rights and obligations in implementing the method of compensation. So all of these topics that we've been talking about, all of these questions that the fund should be like this, that the fund should be open or closed, one or another these are questions that will just come before us, these are issues that will be regulated by the law that we can influence. And I am particularly pleased because even in the making of this law and Party of Retired and Retired Associations have obviously participated very actively, and it is quite certain that such an approach will be in the making of this important law. And that's the law actually where we're going to have I expect the right debate, where we're going to offer solutions, where we're going to evaluate solutions that are going to be proposed because this is just the first step. Because it obviously takes a lot of work to do until that law. You need to calculate how much, how much that compensation is, and in one individual way. I agree with colleagues who have advocated the need to individualise the compensation that it is. And I think it will certainly be regulated in that law because no one can even push anyone into the fund and say you'll be a participant in that fund because the law tells you so. Some kind of act, some kind of document will have to be signed either by a solution or a settlement or a statement. Some sort of solution will have to be. So I have to say that there is really no reason why such a law does not support and I think that colleagues and parties of pensioners are very correctly discussed and there is no place for each other's accusations to be returned, the others are not because here we see in this law the compensation will be included and those amounts that were paid until 2000 in addition to the pension and what was paid after 2000 by the law adopted by the earlier Government. So these are all the amounts that went in favor of the compensation of the pensioners. So the efforts and solutions have both been made but this is now a process and this is the first act in the process that should be addressed in one more comprehensive and more concrete way the total amount of compensation needed. So I will support this law because I think it should be supported and that other law, the Fund Act, is what I expect to be a real debate and there will be real solutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u19128	Thanks a nice fellow we're moving on. We have one correction to the incorrect quote, colleague Buljanic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u19129	Thank you, Madam Vice President. My dear colleague said that we are in the context of the great needs of the state in the war and... We all got that, that we all got less. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] As we well know, it's not true, some of them got less. Some of them got more. Some of it's coming down more now, something's left. Some definitely got more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u19130	Thanks a lot, buddy. Next up is representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u19131	Dear Vice-Presidents of the House, the esteemed State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues! So we have a problem and we're trying to solve it. It's known what the problem is called, the debt to the pensioners, we know when the problem occurred. Between 1993 and 1998 when pensions did not comply with salaries. Why? Why didn't they get along? We hear here because of the need to finance the defence of the country. Is that right? At that time when pensioners were not paid off, when the pensioners somehow went away, the account grew, for example, in Filach for the need for defence of the land. The payments of our emigrants. That money wasn't used to defend the country. He's left that money on his account in Filach as a HDZ account. At the same time when pensioners were not paid their pensions under the law, some were rich. That's when they acquired their fortune about that very time. As we hear, something of this wealth is now collapsing. The fact that it was illegally built in the green zone. Spectacular. And as for those who destroy them, they judge their property for a billion kuna. And they started out as drivers. That's when they acquired, acquired those fortunes when they were taken to the pensioners allegedly for defence purposes. In these circumstances and circumstances, therefore, there was a debt, and there was this robbery of the pensioners. The return began modestly. 50 kuna and 100 kuna and she 100 plus 6%. Well, then from the year 2000, the law went a little bit better. So as my colleague Vujic calculated when we sum up all these 50 kunas and 100 kunas and 100 kunas plus 6% and this special law, there is some amount of 18 billion aproximative. Of what, 18 billion? From what total debt? Nobody knows that yet. There are 3 calculations and 24 billion total debt, and 36 and 54, no one knows. No one knows what is really total and how much of it is returned. Now. How does this Law that should solve this problem come to pass? I see him as one of the consequences of a coalition deal. Which is completely legitimate. The two parties agree to support each other. I mean, the deal's like this. That the Croatian party of pensioners will support the government of Ivo Sanader, and Prime Minister Sanader has pledged to repay the pensioners for the mistake. It is perfectly legitimate and it would be a good job for the Croatian party of pensioners and it would be good news for all pensioners if the agreement were to be implemented. However, representatives of the Croatian Retired Party stick to agreements, support the government of Ivo Sanader, support even when the government refuses, for example, our bill on one-time monetary incentives for pensioners. So when HDZ refuses to give pensioners greater incentives, then HSU agrees with that. It's agreed that they don't need to get any bigger incentives. Mostly HSU supports the government. And Prime Minister Sanader sends the bill. Is he paying back his debt? No, I don't. Debt doesn't come back. The law is being offered. And what will happen now that this Law is passed today? How much debt will be paid back? From tomorrow. When will this debt begin to return? Nothing, not even a lip. Absolutely nothing. What will the pensioners get out of it? He won't get anything. And that's what they need to be told. You won't get anything. You must understand that. Because what does the law offer? He says that in a year, a reckoning will be made for each pensioner and a fund will be established in a year. All right, checkout. A reckoning is made, and now every pensioner gets a reckoning and, for example, it says that the state owes him 10 thousand kuna. So what happens next? What's he doing with that solution now? It's not even a solution, a reckoning. Where does he go with his reckoning? It's called a fund. So he's with that reckoning, even if he's unhappy with the reckoning he can't even object. There's no one to object to. There's nothing to do with it. How about the money? No, not at all. He'll have a piece of paper that says the state owes him 10 grand. There's a fund that should solve this issue. And that fund is just fog. Because why is that fog? I'm not saying it's fog for being offensive to someone. It's an estimate of that debt at 24 billion. After minimal approximation. The total value, the nominal value of the entire portfolio, is estimated at around 20 billion. It means that everything gets cleaned up, everything gets mixed up, everything the state has and puts in that fund isn't enough yet. And nominate it. How much is that stock worth? You don't know that. It can only be found out on the stock market when it's going to sell those shares. But those same shares weren't just promised to the pensioners. They were promised both to defenders and workers. According to how many nominations there will be in that fund, no one has a clue. But the money won't be enough. The money won't be enough, and that's why the bill doesn't talk about repaying the debt. But one interesting term of compensation is used. And now you know what that compensation can look like. There's stock in the fund, there's as many as there are. There's not enough, but there's as many as there is. So then it's calculated by that reckoning for every pensioner what his share of that fund is. And he's given one piece of paper where he's told, "Your share is 0.000027%." And that's how you're compensated. Now you've become a co-owner of the Fund and we've gotten rid of you. Where's the money? Where's the money? There's no money. And that's what needs to be said to the pensioners, unusually, very openly, bravely and honestly. Don't count on money because there's no money. You won't get the money. You will get papers that you are ideal co-owners in some fund that will be worth not knowing how much. Will he make any offerings? We don't even know that. He can do business with loss. Well, that's possible. So you'll be in charge as co-owners. So I think it's all really expensive at this level that this law offers one fog and demagogy. Fog and demagogy. That it's a fog and demagogy, as well as an article that speaks of interest. Watch out and write down the amount of interest that no one knows the amount of the underlying debt. So someone wrote the sum, he remembered. That's how it sounds good-looking. Let's write that much. It's completely unrealistic. What's the use of this law? And for whom is that benefit? I think it's a benefit for two parties of the coalition. It certainly benefits HDZ because it offers an illusion of solving problems in public. For HSU because it tells its electoral body that this is a solution to the problem. But for pensioners, it's certainly not a useful solution. And that's why there's a line in the explanation that says it. The adoption of the proposed Law will improve the mathematical and social position of the peace-users absolutely incorrectly. The law will be passed today and the material and social status of the pensioners will not change but not at all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u19132	Thank you, colleague. We have three corrections of incorrect allegations. Mr. Kapraljevic, please be my guest.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u19133	I'd fix the part where Koelga Stazic says the pensioners won't get anything. I don't agree with that. Retired people will receive a reckoning that will not be resolved, but will receive a reckoning. And there will be shares that will probably be worth nothing, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u19134	Thank you very much. My colleague, Brnadić, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u19135	Thank you very much, Madam President. I would correct the incorrect angel of fellow Stazic who is in his famous style of debt does not return very patheticly, very theatrically, there will be nothing, where the money, demagogy and so on. So it's incorrect that the debt doesn't come back, the debt will come back. And I would just read Mr. Jordan's statement in his article of July 1st that the pensioners at the time of Mr. Vidovic's reign so that the former government had made amendments to the amendments to the pension insurance law that included all the points that entered into their HSU programme and which were entered into in the contract with the HDZ of the Lord were then not worthy of talking to the pensioners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u19136	We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Agent Stazic, please welcome.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u19137	Article 209 was broken, we didn't hear any allegations being corrected, or what was incorrect in that quote. It was a classic replica that apparently lacked courage.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u19138	Thank you very much. Another correction to the incorrect quote, MP Lelic, here are your colleagues.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u19139	Thank you, Madam Vice President, so I would like to correct the allegations of Agent Stazic, saying they are offering illusions. Which is completely incorrect. Here in law in the parliamentary procedure that brings the same and the establishment of a fund. The Ethic Fund's share has already been pointed out repeatedly that there will be valuable shares, valuable asset companies, and I don't think they're any illusions at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u19140	Thank you very much, dear colleague. Let's move on with the debate. A fellow representative, Ivan Chehok, please be my guest.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u19141	Madam Vice President, State Secretary, ladies and gentlemen. The cynical irony of it seems to me because... he once said, the only thing that can be done in life and do without money is debt. And I purposely cited this statement of his that I might warn all of us that irony and cynicism should right now be trimming their wings often too high in patheticness and receptiveness. And indeed, we who are considering today this fund-building law and the compensation of pensioners should be aware that it would not be a good thing and that tomorrow's responsibility is that today the only debts that have been paid without money have been retired. That certainly wouldn't be good. And that's why our responsibility doesn't stop and it doesn't end today with the adoption of this law, but I think it's just beginning with the adoption of this law. Our responsibility as a legislative body will only be confirmed in practice, as legislators, when we will discuss a fund that we today only say in law that we will establish. as the government's responsibility will be if such a fund really becomes a source of funds of value from which to be able to aliminate and collect debts. It is generally known that every society is created on the basis of organic solidarity. And it is quite clear that in the war conditions during the 1990s, Croatian society was created and our country's political community defended itself mostly thanks to this very organic solidarity. Where organic solidarity is something that then pervades all layers of sociologically and all life-cycles, so if you want all those citizens living in one country individually. And it is certain that the pensioners in this particular organic solidarity as an age group have become in some way a layer group. And the fact is, that's exactly what intergenerational solidarity we've had, and we've had the means of what dream we've been using for all these 11 years. Knowing that one day we will still have to think about implementing the Constitutional Court's decision and that one day we will have to think about making debts and paying back these debts. What is worst, unfortunately, no matter how and what actions this law will have, is the fact that in all these 11 years, we have actually turned all retired people into a socially depreciated skiupin into a socially shortened age group in Croatian society. And indeed we have all witnessed together... Croatian pensioners. It won't change we have to tell the pensioners by passing this law. Even if we could return all debts in the short term, unfortunately our pensioners won't live any better. This will not directly reflect their standard of living, in their material rights. Unfortunately, in their existential life prospects, that layer will continue to be pauperated, and in most cases, or gothic, as said, all will be an adventurous part of the social layer that I represent one socially short group. The efforts of the local environments I cited earlier to help some cities do more, some less. Certainly praise is worth it but these efforts are, in fact, too weak effects are almost undetectable, precisely given the fact that almost most pensioners are barely able to bring an end to the end. And that only thanks to great overburning and self-sacrifice not only to provide its existential minimum but most often to the management of what I have said before that young people are also aware that they are unemployed, that they are hard to live, even sometimes and helps younger people in the family and once again confirms what intergenerational solidarity is, in fact, a comprehensive organic solidarity. So I think that it is really only up to all of us who are going to discuss the fund, the statute of the fund, and all those who will have to transfer the shares of the fund to the real estate, and then imagine a ruckus, i.e. in such a way as to put the fund's business in order that the fund can be paid back to the pensioners as soon as possible. Unfortunately, it would be better if in a competitive agreement or at least in the light of all the phases of the negotiations that we have heard little about between the government and all the institutions dealing with the pensioners we have more specific information or that we have at least had promises that the shares will be transferred to that fund, which real estate, because I share the suspicion of the vast majority of Croatian citizens who, unfortunately, are unsettled by the experiences of the PIFs, who are unsettled by the experiences of other funds that we have already established and can indeed ask themselves the question of what nature will be the fund that we will set up. Therefore, by looking again at the pensioners in person, not wanting to say with various promises that these debts will be paid in the short, fast, and even in the medium term. I said already if the funds had high yields, the question is whether a total debt will be paid in this mass of funds that some MPs may be more likely or less, and listed 20 or 30 billion kuna, the question is whether it can be paid in the next ten years. But this way, at least the pensioners have some kind of guarantee that these debts are recognized, that they're recorded. Finally, it will occur that each individual can accurately determine the amount of that debt and that then the pensioner or the first succession order can hope that these debts will also be compensated for what the State owes. And I'd like to say more, I don't think it's about this law, but ladies and gentlemen, when we're talking about getting justice back to the pensioners, then I think we should correct another great injustice, which is our privileged pensions. It's a big injustice, and today when we're talking, I want to look at the pensioners again, I think it's a big injustice to have pensions like this. I'll say that my mother, who was a 35-year-old nurse, of which she worked 20 years with the most severe patients on TBC, tuberculosis patients, retired this year with a thousand and a hundred-and-a-half kuna pensions. And I, the sniffer who managed to sit in this House, will only have because I'm sitting in the Assembly high pension and privileged. I don't think that's right, and I think that all together, and I suggested that in the last term when I was talking about our pensions, I don't think there's any reason that we should be any kind of privileged layer in this society.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u19142	Thanks a lot, buddy. We have a correction to an incorrect quote. Mršić's representative, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u19143	I traded for the replica, so if I can.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u19144	He can do both.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u19145	Can I do it right now?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u19146	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u19147	First, I wanted to replicate to my colleagues in Czecho on his thesis that all the pensioners were on the verge of social survival, almost everyone did, but then he got right in the end. What I want to agree fully with him right now, I don't think all pensioners share the same fate because pensioners who work in the ranks of state officials, and in particular parliamentary representatives, don't share the fate of our fellow citizens who work honestly for 40 years and retire with thousands and fewer kunas. And we would be much more honest today if we talked, today when we talk about this fund to say that we are going to change the law and awareness of parliamentary representatives into equal status, that is to say, to align parliamentary representatives with other Croatian citizens in a way that does not make privileged pensions, and that is where I fully agree with my colleague, Czechoko. I think we could say OK then.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u19148	I'm glad you agreed, but you're out of time.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u19149	To correct an incorrect quote, it's not a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u19150	Your time is up. This wasn't a correction, this was a replica because you got along, you didn't make up. So it was a replica. Mr. Hrelja's representative, please be my guest.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u19151	I think my colleague Chehok missed two important facts. I can only correct a part of the thought he said, because by hanging out with the pensioners they precisely require the integration of all privileged pensions into a single pension system, point, I don't want to spread the story. Neither this reduction nor that increase. Integration and setting up certain relationships and that's true of the pensioners. Another thing is that I sort of complement my colleague, Chehok. When we talk about the Croatian party of pensioners and pensioners, if the Croatian party of pensioners were not here today, 100 kunas and 6% would continue to be paid, the law of difference, and in order for whoever died would have the right to have anything and that would go on for the next 10 years in advance and at one point would have said everything was paid. That would be us putting this into retirement, so now by passing the law, this Parliament, 100 kuna and 6%, and we're going into the final reckoning, and it's up to us to try to do what we do not only on one side but all of us to make as much as possible a better, more operational and more efficient fund. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u19152	Thank you very much. We have a reply to the replica, Agent Chehok. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u19153	Thank you very much to Mr. Hrelja for reminding him that the pensioner's party has advocated it, so I said that, all the institutions of the pensioners. And the value of the pensioners' party I think I recognized among the first in Croatia because I collated with them in the local elections and we got great successes.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u19154	Thank you very much. Vuljanic, my colleague, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u19155	Thank you, Madam Vice President. It is a fascinating amount of doubt expressed by colleagues in the functioning of the fund and in the fact that the law will finally be applied and fascinatingly, then, that the law supports it. It's a little vague to me, I'm not in... otherwise, as far as I'm concerned, I agree with these doubts expressed, so we question the government's good will to really pay the pensioners back their debt because the goodwill of HDZ existed after the end of the war. War is a state of war, we don't have to tell about it. After the end of the war would have been passed this law, the fund would have been already operationalized today, it would have worked if there had been good will. Well-willed, it was then exactly when the retirement party entered this House and when there was a political... before good faith there was no.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u19156	Thank you very much. Replication response. Be my guest.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u19157	... I suspect, I doubt it, so I am a respected colleague. I doubt it and that's why I'm asking for responsibility, but the moment I realized that all the doubts were scattered and that the former government that you were in would not return, we, as HSLS, came out of the coalition, and now...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u19158	Thank you very much. Representative Pecek. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u19159	Thank you very much. I'd like to try to tell my colleagues of the Czech Republic some of the delusions I've seen from his exposure. There are four reasons why we have such a bad condition in a pensioner. The first is that the shares from the Mirovinski Fund disappeared in the period exactly in the 91-95th year that we received through privatisation. The value of this fund was much greater than that which we are now planning to form. I'm going to remind the nominals of those 100 DEM shares have been changed for 10 DEM, of course some of them did. The second reason is 400 thousand new pensioners who are actually on strange terms and also for privatisation went into retirement, and they wanted to still work. The third reason is financial engineering. Let's remind ourselves of the loans that took place at the Peace Fund, in one day interest 1%, of course only some have had the opportunity to do so. And the fourth reason is the bankruptcy of banks where pensioners lost shares of banks, as well as deposits. But by this law, we don't repay the debt to the pensioners, we only create assumptions about the repayment of the debt. If we do this the way we used to, the assumptions are very bad. I'd like to say, in fact, that the cause of the debt is not the state's state's state's state's state's state's state's state of affairs, but the avoidance of the state's actual compliance. And if this fund were to be formed with a value of 20 billion kuna and very well managed by pensioners and made an 8% annual contribution, it would take them eight years to repay 13 billion kuna of debt, as the former government returned. So much for that, the numbers tell us so.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u19160	Thank you very much. And right to the reply to the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u19161	Thank you very much for the addition of my esteemed colleague, Pacek. He really explained four basic reasons and I agree with them. It is fortunate that the total debt return mass has not, for example, invested in the Rijeka Bank, a colleague of Pecek, because it would have disappeared.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u19162	Thank you very much. We can move on with the debate. Representative Katarina Fuchek. Here you go, pal.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u19163	Dear Madam Vice President, colleagues and fellow MPs. It is precisely from this increased or significant interest to discuss this law that pensioners are a very important group or structure of our society and are all interested in being adequately treated or adequately solved. Because these are our loved ones. They're our parents, they're our neighbors, they're the ones we know, and so we certainly want to live well or live better. Certainly they have been touched primarily on important topics, but also on political issues, that pensioners have become a political factor, regardless of their representatives in all parties. As a retirement party, they also became a respected political factor. Why? Because in some ways, their view has lost confidence that or that political parties are sincere in their intentions to solve their problems, that they are really fighting for them, but that they want to collect certain points. This is now the first concrete move to restore credibility to Croatian politics and the Croatian state. Because, even though it may not be a concrete and final form, it is still entering into solving a particular problem. As representatives of pensioners who have reached a certain agreement with the Government in this House, they certainly represent someone. I'm asking my distinguished fellow MPs to shut up because they're distracting me. So, fellow MPs representing pensioners must be representing someone. They got their vote and they got their trust. I don't know why this debate tried to argue. I also want to look back at the debates and arguments that were heard in these discussions, which is that this law offers nothing. That this law is fog, that it will not get anything in particular. And then, after that, concrete remarks were made that certain rights cannot be inherited, that they cannot inherit grandchildren and certain descendants. So why would they be interested in inheriting anything, if it's not good, if it's nothing, then we could ignore it. Then it's really nothing, but we've been so heartily demeaning the proposals because we've actually seen it because that's what a concrete solution could bring. As for the discussion of the fund, the property of the fund. Listen, who and every investment risk exists. Why don't you say, in the past 10 years and in the review of some economic movements, and also in the business review of funds that exist on the Croatian market, a certain continuity? The funds record both growth and decline. Normally, the owner is in the interest of quality management of the funds and therefore sets up quality management. However, certain advances must be discussed before that. I'm sure with this proposal, it's got to be the problem, because she's definitely coming. There are certain privatisation intentions and certainly there are certain shares that have their own values, which are highly valued, but each share, for each share, there is the possibility that it will grow. Just like there's a chance he'll shrink. I think it could certainly have been discussed in a better way, but they couldn't put hypothetical thesis "if, yes, if, why not". In fact, the market system is something that provides different and unsuspecting opportunities and why pensioners wouldn't fertilize and get more if they could. Well, maybe more than pay, but right now, this law doesn't solve it and you know it. It will only be discussed when there is a concrete fund law in this debate. But you've actually come out of the subject with the intention of demeaning it and derailing it, and the way is that this is the first and true concrete investment in the problem of the pensioners. Because even in the past four years, pensioners have not been satisfied with the way they treat themselves and the way they handle it. No matter what efforts were made, however, they were then involved in the elections and perhaps had other visions and thus became a political factor. Normally, everything depends on the economic movement, everything depends on the situation in Croatia. Everything depends on trends, it means a lot, a lot of things. However, these current indicators that we had the opportunity to discuss the budget were also positive. No matter what the rebalancing was, however, some indicators of positive trends were in sight. Perhaps it is not so spectacular, however, to achieve a certain stability is also a prerequisite for normal development and cannot be in one spectacular and one too short time. Well, my people, this government is only six months in power, and there are already some real and concrete moves in solving or launching certain problems. Regardless of the connotations you want to create, this law can also be called one of the concrete moves. Retired are millions of people, millions of people, millions of fate. These people go to the store every day, they buy something every day. If they didn't expect something from this, they wouldn't have given their representatives a mandate to talk, negotiate or come up with some kind of agreement. And it's just the beginning of solving a particular debt issue for the pensioners. Good intentions should also be appreciated, with good intentions it all begins. Good intentions then have their own creativity, have good ideas. So also this good idea of a model like this here is concrete in the proposed law. So I support and support this law every solution that in some parts will solve certain problems, improve life and offer something that will be truly concrete. This is really something concrete. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u19164	The correction incorrectly states the respected representative Vuljanić please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u19165	Thank you, Mr. President, I'd like to correct two incorrect allegations from my colleague. One, she was talking about inheriting rights. The rights are not inherited, the rights are personal, it's not about the rights, it's about the money, the money people took away without anyone asking them anything, no matter how much money the state needed. Another incorrect allegation, the female representative praises the system of shares by which pensioners will be able to gain greater value than those they have been kidnapped. So the government offers pensioners, not to offer them, but to impose a cube on them and no one asked them if they would gamble.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u19166	Honorable representative Antun Kapraljevic rectification of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u19167	I would correct that assumption when my colleague said this was the first concrete move to restore the credibility of the Croatian state, it was rather strange to me because no one had even expressed doubts about the credibility of the Croatian state, but in the credibility of the government. And I would especially like to point out that such a court hurts me directly because all the time Croatia is being identified with Croatia or in this case by the HDZ government and then we get statements from the pay phone when Prime Minister Sanader comes and says there are no larger Croats than he does, I consider myself to be an equal Croat.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u19168	The Honorable representative of the Korenika rectification of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u19169	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs. Fuček said that the adoption of this Law began to solve the problem of the pensioners, it is quite incorrect because the government has already passed and the Parliament's past assembly through the state budget began to solve the problem of the pensioners when around 13 billion kuna was given into the pension fund from the state budget quite certainly not enough but a serious and creative start to what is happening now, we will see the time will show.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u19170	We have three replicas. Dear Representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u19171	Mr. President, the colleague said that the pensioners were rightly suspicious of political parties' intentions and were thus politically organised, however, I just want to say that they were rightly suspicious of the intention of certain political parties, but they could read these intentions from their behaviour. So I'm going to say one example of the behavior of a party whose representative of the club is here at the pay phone quite loudly, I guess not understanding that a microphone is involved and later compared this law to how much I understood with a mosquito and one of the plants. In particular, his party colleague and senior official of the party specifically HNS is presently in front of the court and has been sued by the pensioners, and the pensioners from Dubrovnik, because in the 1990s he took millions of kuna to build a retirement home and that home has never been made and this is probably the attitude of the HNS towards the pensioners, this is the best evidence and best example of how HNS treats pensioners. If that's your behavior for us it's totally unacceptable and we find this government move very good and very concrete and quite realistic, and how you behave you've shown enough in these recent years.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u19172	Replicate response, distinguished representative Katarina Fuček.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u19173	Thank you very much, Mr. President. A colleague, Matušić, well-involved and complemented the problem and also the concise moves of individual parties who also received their mandate from the pensioners' votes. Secondly, the Croatian state and Croatian government are not being identified here or such a formulation was, but the Croatian government represents the state and I don't know why it should be built on such formulations, especially if they are somewhere to promote, to represent and out of the normal way that the Croatian government represents the Croatian state and the credibility of the Croatian government can be withdrawn as a parallel of the credibility of the Croatian state. Well, it's just a normal political finding. Secondly, this is not the one and only concrete proposal that has come to confirm this credibility, this is only one of a series of concrete proposals proposed by this Government in accordance with its programme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u19174	The second replica is the honest representative of Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u19175	Thank you very much. I fully agree with my colleague that there is a risk in investment and shareholders, however, debt to the pensioners did not arise because they would be carrying out risky investments, but because they were denied the right to part of their pension in the time of 93 to 98. So they didn't have any risky investments. Only 6 months of government and the first sign has already come, but the Constitutional Court ruling was passed on May 12, 98, and by the end of 99, when you lost power, it was a year and a half a day to regulate it by the same law as you proposed today. I publicly admit that every day I'm in front of the court when I go to work, and if anyone in front of a court of law isn't, we can only talk about judicial judgments and nothing else.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u19176	The reply to the replica of the esteemed representative Katarina Fuček.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u19177	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Lesar, a lot of things happened from 93rd to 2004 in Croatia, as well as in HDZ, and I think that these circumstances must also respect the decision that HDZ and President Sanader had the strength to accept this as a current problem and face it, and therefore, in these elections, it has also gained confidence. I don't think I can do for some of the things that HDZ has admitted to nonstop with accounts as if nothing had happened.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u19178	The third replica is Honored Vice-President Mato Arlovic, please welcome.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u19179	Mr. President, a respected colleague has stated that this is a very concrete proposal to address this problem, although there is a colleague named Fuček, who says is a stable risk of investment in the establishment of this investment fund. First of all, I'd like to point out that this isn't about an investment fund because it's about the law that it's about a special fund. The second question I would particularly like to emphasise is that for me, it is a very profound proposal that this bill shows that it will join the establishment of the fund. In this respect, it is proposed that the basis for determining the initial value of the specific fund will be determined by the corresponding difference in Article 3 of this Act or Article 1 of this Act, or that this will be the corresponding difference based on the outstanding pension that should have been paid in relation to the harmonisation of the individual pensioner. This calculation, which will be determined for each individual pensioner, will be his personal claim from the Republic of Croatia from the title of the debt that is in financial form and why someone could force someone to invest their personal claim in some investment, special or any other fund and take the risk, whether that property, or whether its claim, will give financial, give such or such a positive or negative effect. You forget your colleagues that, in fact, with this bill, you entered the sphere of counterconstitution already at the beginning. Because you have indicated that you will counter-constitutionally force someone who has personal property that you will determine on the basis of a claim for personal account for each individual pensioner that they must invest in something, which is in fact a violation of his entrepreneurial rights and the rights of entrepreneurial freedoms, and in such a situation it is not possible to resolve this issue. I think we should discuss something else. Will the Republic of Croatia and what shares will it single out? How will they determine and set up a special fund? And the second question is, to determine the individual rights of each pensioner and dynamics how will they repay that money or the value of such a determined right? There's no other discussion. Because this way the pensioners won't get anything.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u19180	Replicate response, distinguished representative Katarina Fuček.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u19181	Thank you very much. Once again, I certainly won't be able to discuss it with Mr. Arlovic, and I don't want to. But nothing can be triggered unless certain administrative and accounting actions are made that move the individualization of the problem, Mr. Arlovic, and that's what's important. Here's what I'm trying to say, and that's the first concrete move, that someone's got some kind of warrant to have within a certain period to do something concrete for anyone who asks of the state at the expense of it.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u19182	Thank you. Dear Representative Zlatko Kramarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u19183	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, dear ministers, respected colleagues and colleagues. Who knows who we're going to figure out how to do it, how easy it is not to say it's easy to make an injustice, and that injustice is then difficult or almost impossible to correct. and today after 11 years we face this fact, with this square of circles that injustice has been done, and then we try to depend on what party orientation we belong to to find an argument why in 93 years it was just the pensioners who paid the highest price of our stabilisation programme from the then Valentiæ government. And if it is necessary to say that there has already been in the Parliament in the public of the voices who have warned them and who have asked for this injustice to be done. And this situation has lasted 11 years now, because we don't know whether it will be today's day of passing this law and it has been interrupted, because here some colleagues before me have already said that some injustices continue, precisely because the methodology of calculating this debt has actually changed several times in the meantime, and then it really happens that people from the same job with the same age of internships depending on when they went into retirement have drastically less pensions. I think my colleague, Rados, has said one such piece of information, and as far as it's known, no one from the government has denied it. So we ask ourselves, what will happen to those whom this law does not apply, who retired after 98? It's just showing up, I'm saying all the problems of one of our transition states, this material property of ours, that's what I'm saying is that there are always those in society who have to pay a certain price. I think it would be good if colleagues from the Croatian Retirement Party said that this should not be discussed partyically, because in fact all of us, if a million and some citizens of the Republic of Croatia are retired, then they really belong to all parties, it is about our parents, our neighbors, about our acquaintances, about our citizens, about our citizens, and it would be very good, to avoid just such discussions that are not too productive and that are trying to focus on another political option. Well, then, could there be something done by January 98th? Has anything more been done on this since January 3rd? I'm afraid that as usual we miss this analytical approach and that we don't really know what this ultimate debt is again, there are several calculations, and I'm afraid if we really get back into that whole story unprepared, that this famous fund, that now we don't say anything of any value whether it will succeed or not, even though it seems to us from the Liberal Party that it won't give us any particular results, that we're actually going to find ourselves before some other elections again, and that we're actually going to compete with these unrealistic promises as it is in fact lately a custom in Croatia politics. But I would also go back to this Constitutional Court decision. I say, I always belong to those people who don't like to convince what one of us said in private and thought about that decision. But today it was very brave and civil and politically spoken of by counterpart Radoš, although he himself is as aware as all of us that the decisions of the Constitutional Court must actually be respected, and since 11 May 98, under the leadership of Jadranka Crnić, in fact, in some way all of those governments after that decision somehow put that hot chestnut in their hands, the hot potato pardon in their hands, and obviously we don't really know how to get rid of it properly, so so so so so far all the solutions are actually made by Matešina Vladina, and by Prime Minister Racan's Government, and I'm actually seeing this as exclusively palitative, pajalistic solutions. Because I say people, after all, we're all aware to say that injustice is done. And on the side here I put those cheerleaders who said that the debt actually doesn't exist, those cynics who said that pensioners cost us 200 kilometers of highways a year, and in some ways they showed this particular relationship to that population, that it's always, in fact, when someone's right to monopolize the state, that behind their party stamp they're actually trying.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u19184	Well, colleagues and colleagues, so please don't hear anything, you don't hear the speaker, you don't hear each other. Let's make it through today.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u19185	For what it's worth, I forgive them all. And now actually the situation has changed somewhat in the meantime, which are pensioners... become a political factor, which has come to a coalition agreement, and this coalition agreement actually obliges the Croatian Democratic Community to try to find the best possible solution, although in fact from the very ranks of the Croatian Democratic Community we can hear a whole series of warning and I could also say to the reasonable voices as the Deputy Prime Minister himself, that he is afraid that these shares, or this fund, will not solve all the problems of the pensioners. [[speaks off, can't be heard]] And also some other coalition partners have also expressed a high degree of skepticism that actually, that actually behind this solution there is absolutely nothing and that it is actually one very much as some... theorists say, a very cunning move by Mr. Sanader and Schuker, they want to take care of their backs and create the impression that they have done everything they can, i.e. that they have fulfilled one of their pre-election promises, but without any major damage to the Croatian state. What we may find a little harder to understand here are pensioners who actually agree to one, or representatives of pensioners sitting in the Assembly who agree to one such game. I would also tend to those who are prone to in, and in due course to be honest, I want to be denied and God forbid something that's possible gets done sooner, but to get it, not to be a promise, not to be a stock that they won't be able to cash in because in fact, in this whole story, it's started to go from this flossula that there's no money for the pensioners and it's predicted that the shares are invested by those who have money and not the poor and the old people who need each kuna for their mere survival. It's the same thing as offering these shares to the unemployed instead of offering them jobs. I think it's a very skillful replacement of the thesis and if the fund is well managed as the representatives of the pensioners announce then the stockholders will not get dividends. One who manages well does not extract profits from companies but invests in their recovery and development and the real I say shareholders do not count on profits but on the growth of the value of shares. That's the point. Now I wonder, and when the majority of the pensioners realize it, then you'll have a situation very soon that they'll want to sell these papers at all costs because they're very clear that they can't put on bread and that they can't live on those shares. And it's this natural sequence of events that we really need to talk about here honestly and see if the government has any solutions on them. I'm afraid there isn't and we'll get back... And try actually for cheap money or be God why buy those shares of theirs. [[The speaker is off, you can't hear it.]] And what I'm also saying now would have skipped the whole one story that came down to the fact that we had the 1990s inflation of pensioners, that the structure of actually employee and pensioners' relations had changed significantly, and if it is now data that all employees in the Republic of Croatia are being paid into the existing pension fund by 12 billion kuna, and for this service of all these current pensions, we need 25 billion here, and I've been trying to calculate here all morning how it is possible and how it is possible to convert them into 25 and we haven't been able to calculate it, so maybe Minister Vukelić himself in that aid calculation. Perhaps we haven't all the elements in our attempt to calculate. So I say once again on behalf of the Liberal Party, I plead for one, however, that this euphoric tone is easily reduced, to be honest with this public because it still looks at us over a million pensioners who are in all parties and in no party who are also expecting us to correct some of the injustices of the old, to prevent the doing of new ones, and to try to finally find a methodology that will satisfy precisely that it is a population that has achieved national wealth and that we must have...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u19186	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u19187	Just a moment to finish my sentence.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u19188	Well, you can't finish one long extended sentence. You as a professor of literature know that a sentence of what it should be like and especially that sentence after three times the time has run out doesn't make any sense anymore. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u19189	Thank you very much for this warning.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u19190	Please. Ladies and gentlemen, for a moment now, we would just like to interrupt the debate on this subject. We're continuing the debate. Dear Representative Niko Rebic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u19192	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! This is one of those bill proposals that is life-interested in a number of retirement populations and their families. I believe that each of us has someone in the family who has worked full-time and today has such a pension that he can't make ends meet and that actually offends people's dignity, so with the right question they've worked for and why they've been paying for a number of contributions. Conscious of the situations in which the country was in wartime they patiently waited for a better time or recognition that they were legal and that the regulations of the Government during... From October 93rd to January 95th, the provisions of the positive rules for the harmonisation of pensions. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Pensions are harmonised below the level of pay, however, the provisions on the regular harmonisation of pensions are not... not put out of force. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In February of the 95th expiry of the Government Regulations, the conditions for harmonisation in relation to the movement of salaries of employees were met. However, the increase in a large number of pensioners compared to the number of insurance companies simply did not have the means to reconcile pensions. They are deeply aware that they are suspended by protecting their interests and defending their rights have come to the Constitutional Court. The full satisfaction and reward for their efforts and perseverance in protecting their rights were given to the pensioners by the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia. Since the Constitutional Court Decision, this is the Third Government, today it is quite clear that the original two governments had no real desire or way to repay the debt to the pensioners. It's true to say, there were tactics with additions of 50, 100 kuna, 100 kuna plus 6% to a pension and so on, but I repeat a serious approach that the debt was not fully returned. This is therefore the first government to, despite all the difficulties it has inherited and whether this should be repeated in the legacy, has been given the most in charge of the transition country and yet has had the courage to catch seriously the problems of the pensioners and propose a draft law on the implementation of the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia since 12 May 98. Realising that it is almost impossible to repay the large amount of debt to the pensioners from the budget and also to service the dues and obligations without prejudice to the functioning and stability of the state, this bill is adopted. This proposal would set up a fund in which the assets and shares of public undertakings established no later than one year after the adoption of this Act and the Ministry of Economy should adopt the Fund Act within a year. It is clear that all of us who have lived a good part of our lives in the former system look back on our funds, it does not give us security, but in Western market countries it works very well. I am convinced that given the struggle of members but also the value of assets and shares, this will soon become the strongest and richest fund in the State. What will be extremely important for the success of this Fund is the choice and quality of the management staff, i.e. management that will manage the stock of the fund in a quality way. If this condition is met, there is no doubt that this is the most effective way to repay the debt and I would say dignity to the pensioners. It is very easy to agree that there should be no policy and no bidding on this matter. We can bid at the height of the debt, at the rate of interest in the calculation. We all understand what the former government has done about the debt and what it says, it intends to take the current power. Who's more honest here, you know. That is best said by those who are most interested in solving this problem, and these are pensioners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u19193	Dear Representative Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u19194	Mr. Vice President, ministers, colleagues and colleagues. Transition periods always have injustices and in injustices remain a deprived part of citizens and a special group. The Croatian transition except for its success, the problem, was again met with the Homeland War. And then when we talk about what groups of our citizens who have really been denied and I would say to the victim of injustice, they are primarily workers, among which I count workers and workers who have lost through failed conversion, poor privatisation results and, of course, all spent during the Homeland War. They were certainly followed by pensioners who, at a certain point, were also suspended by government regulations for the legal payment of pensions. Of course, there are also families of the dead and the victims who have also stayed together with part of the exiles as a category in Croatia during this transition period which is the result of the injustice and which we will have to think very much about. I have to mention people with disabilities who couldn't get rid of themselves at that time and especially those with disabilities in World War II. And of course all those who have lost some property and everything in me would say the price of organising Croatia to lead our defence home war. These are all categories of citizens who have suffered the injustice of the 10th year, the 15th years each government will have a responsibility in the future, to try to see how to make up for some of this injustice and some of those damages financially. And there is the answer to making up for these injustices, these are Croatian deficits because it is money that unfortunately we are unable to create with our own gross social product, so we have to use a number of times the deficit instruments to solve the injustices that are in the 1990s to 2000s. I'd stick to the category of pensioners who are subject to the law that's under discussion today. This injustice began to be resolved in a certain minimum in the period from 98 to 2000 with certain cash compensations and continued to be resolved in 2000/2004. When we talk about trying to solve these injustices in 2000/2004. Then I must say that the decision to secure the cash compensation was very difficult. In 2000, the deficit of the Croatian budget or consolidated general balance was over 8.2%. Fully halted economic investment activity and very difficult to get into new deficits but precisely the difference between the average salary of around 3100 kuna and the average pension of 1300 kuna. She didn't give any other options but to simply start with a law that would provide cash returns. And that's why the law that was passed at the end of 2000 decided to increase the deficits by 2 and a half billion kuna a year. Simply too low the average pension that did not provide a minimum existence for pensioners. This is why money compensation had to be approached at the time. Although there was no money, there was no battery of their own, the deficits were created, and therefore the debts. Of course, the same decision of the former Parliament was, and, the former assembly of the Parliament was bound to leave the Ministerial Law in effect after the end of 2002 and to make 100 kuna plus 6% permanent compensation. Again, it is an obligation to compensate those who have suffered damages in transition and are aware that it is necessary to leave it in cash in order in some way to speed up the average pension growth. That's what's been done so far. What does the new Law suggest? I'd like to talk about his good side first. And the good news is that today we can make it very clear to the citizens of Croatia, and especially to pensioners like those who have suffered damage in the transition that the debt has not been recovered. And the debt will continue to return. Because the debt story has somehow been established over the past few years, but it is very clear that the return is not over. And today with this law, we're sending that message. Another quality of this bill is to finally speak for the first time about individual law and individual amount that should belong to each pensioner or one who has suffered damage. That's the second quality of this bill. And of course what's worth it is a deadline, that within a year, those individual rights will be established. That's the good side of the proposal. They should be supported, too. You have to fight. What are the bad side of the proposal and what do we think that, personally, I think is bad in this bill? If we have already established that the good side is that the debt is not recovered until the end, that it is necessary to identify the amount of compensation or debt in any way that any of the lawyers will want to interpret it, then I believe that the worst thing in this Bill proposal is that we have not determined that the administrative act, that the solution will be that will enable each individual to determine its amount first and give him the right to conduct proceedings unless he is satisfied with the administrative act. And that's what's the biggest drawback. What I think we should resolve in today's debate is the basic foundation of this Law. Secondly, since we have decided to return individually, I think we should also establish a commitment to those who have died. Because if those who are now going to get that right will somehow have an heir in the event of death, then those who have died should be defined by this Law. And that's something we need to determine today. It's something that must be in the integral part of this proposal. What's bad is also a question of the fund. But I think it's premature to talk about it, prematurely because we don't have a proposal and we can only guess. What's the bad side of the Fund? Here you see the poor side of the Fund for me personally is not enough stock, not enough property, perhaps a weaker portfolio of shares. It's all to be resolved. When we talk about that law, I think we'll settle it. But practice is bad. The defenders and especially the victims of the Homeland War have been solved by the Fund. What did the practice show? These victims got 1 and a half percent nominal value. The funds were taken over by those who managed them for one-and-a-half percent compensation. They became the richest people. But tomorrow, the fund will give them some new shares. That's our problem. Practice. That's what we're especially afraid of. But I think what's wrong with that part is we'll have a chance to talk about it when we see the law itself, so hopefully we'll be able to solve all these shortcomings. But what I think should be solved today is a solution as an individual right and the right of those who have died. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u19195	Thank you very much. Dear representative Mirjana Brnadić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u19196	Thank you very much, sir. Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen! We're all tired, we've got a lot of work to do, so I'm gonna cut my exposure short. And first of all, I would refer to a brief review of the opportunities of 1993 when the government adopted a Regulation establishing the maximum amount of funds to pay off pensions. I'm sorry there's no fellow Trainers here to listen a little bit to what I'm going to say in this brief review. It was a time of terrible aggression between the Southern Army and Chetniks in the Republic of Croatia. Thousands of exiles, refugees to be cared for and fed. The Croatian army that was to be trained, strengthened and eventually defended and restored all occupied areas. During the postwar period, it was time to rebuild the destroyed economy and destroyed homes and intensive reconstruction and return of exiles. The pensioners understood this and waited patiently and calmly for all governments to find the opportunity and the means to repay their debt for outstanding pensions. The former government had a good will and did what it could and knew. But she didn't end up doing what was expected of her. I must also point out this occasion that this government was the only one who had the courage to bite into this hot potato and in a quality way to propose a final solution. We therefore have before us the proposal for a law implementing the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia's decision since 1998. This solution may not be ideal, but considering all the circumstances in which we are brought with the consent of the Croatian party of pensioners. This solution is another proof that this government is carrying out an election promise and that it respects the coalition agreement. This is also proof of the government's seriousness in implementing the Constitutional Court's decisions. The quality of the proposed solution will be based on the quality of the shares and the value of the real estate which will be managed by the future fund, which will certainly be one of the strongest funds in Croatia and managed by pensioners. I must reiterate once again that the purpose of the proposed Law is to remove the proportions of pensions paid from 1 September 1993 until today in accordance with, or until 31 December 1998, the economic development of the state and to preserve fundamental constitutional rights and principles, which are equality, social justice and the rule of law. A lot of statistics on the number and structure of pensioners have already been presented here. About the relationship between the pensioners and the number of employees who are very unfavourable and who I wouldn't repeat. But colleagues and colleagues make sure that this government through economic programmes and through measures to increase employment will give an answer and a positive shift in the near future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u19197	Thank you very much. Two replicas, a respected representative of Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u19198	Well, I'd say this meets the pre-election promise of the HDZe because in the election campaign, the HDZ said the debt to the pensioners was gone. And it is quite certain that HDZ did not need most of the parliament in a way to enter the coalition with HSU that very likely this agreement would not come to an end so we should talk about it. YES, the coalition, so it didn't even allow HSU's entry into the House to come to this law and repay the debt to the pensioners. It's just the coalition and the coalition agreement between HDZ and HSU. It empowers. If HDZ could have found other partners, for example, in this House, there would have been no return to the pensioners, then HDZ would have fulfilled only one of its promises and is talking about a pre-election campaign that there is no debt to the pensioners.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u19199	The reply to the replica of the respected representative Mirjana Brnadić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u19200	Thank you, colleague Mršić, on the contrary. In his pre-election campaign, HDZ stressed that it would push for a pensioner's debt to be paid back, and on that very trail, he also concluded a coalition sproase with the Croatian party of pensioners and certainly did not seek you out as a coalition partner.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u19201	Replica, a respected representative of Miroslav Korenik.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u19202	Here among other colleagues from HDZ are often liked to call on a guarantee card. I, as far as I remember nothing from the reduction in the amount of the pensioner's subscription, and along the way, a colleague said that, we're just going to wait a long time, it seems, that's the problem. In doing so, I must say, my colleague has said that this proposal of the Act is also adopted with the consent of the Croatian Party of Retired Persons. It is a suicide to tell you that there are about a million pensioners in Croatia, and there are only three representatives of the Croatian party of pensioners. Here's my mother, my mother-in-law, my father-in-law, certainly the ones I've named, they certainly don't support a retired stranger. Because, in fact, they think they've been fooled by this bill for too long.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u19203	The reply to the replica is a respected representative of Mirjana Brnadić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u19204	Well, colleague Korenika, if the three representatives of the Croatian elderly pensioners are the only ones representing the party, then it means that you who are here are the only members of that party in Croatia. I wouldn't put it like that.../the speaker turned herself off... very tendingly speaking.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u19205	I suggest that the replica be as small as possible. Dear Representative Dragutin Pukleš here.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u19206	Thank you very much. Look, gentlemen, we're discussing here today a law that, let's say, is conditional on calling the pensioners back. However, it is only one segment that affects the overall position of pensioners today in Croatia. Croatia is a democratic country, but you see the democracy of a society can also be measured by the degree of sensibilities towards older people. Further in democratic society, there are rights that can be used or cannot be used. Our population has these formal rights, however, that one large part of these rights are financially inaccessible. Why is that? It's not just because we didn't pay the pensioners back and we did what we did, we did something else. We have totally disavuiled the entire pension system with partial procedures and solutions that have simply created such a mess in that system that there is no longer really a man can manage it. We have ten species and several kinds of pensions. Of the regular, disabled, which are not disabled by new, old pensioners, privileged, benified, so there is simply one complex of very intertwined and complex issues. However, such a disorder has resulted in such a system creating one situation in which the same categories of pensioners, who went into retirement in different periods, were created, and it would normally be that for the same work and full time and the same basis should have at least the same pension. But it didn't happen, it doesn't happen today. Furthermore, such a system has led to a greater decline in pension growth compared to wage growth. And such a continuous way of alimony of pensions has brought all pensioners, not just this category in which we continue to spread into one sad position today. You see because of what we discussed today is only one segment of the total position of the pensioners, and we're figuring out one way to mistake that segment. Well, then we have to move on because we're not done with it. We have made a small shift in previous Assembly sessions by adopting those laws that we have adopted on the way pensions grow in the next period. Now we're dealing with the issue of conditionally speaking of that debt, we're about to coordinate pensions to a higher level. In fact, not only that, but we are at the door of the European Union. So please, it is our duty to remove pensions to one era so that people who use pensions at a time when Croatia enters the European Union can simply survive these pension levels. This is how things move and how they're standing right now, it's just gonna be impossible, and that's why you see another big deal standing in front of us. It's not simple, but it can be done. Let me say something about this question of debt itself. Be careful not to comment on anything about the law at all. The law is as it is made according to the grades of our associations and us in the party of the pensioners, it is some kind of optimism that could have been done at all. And a question of debt. Whether to pay back in cash, or through this fund. I think it's clear to everyone today that they don't need to talk to anyone about some kind of cash debt repayment. Especially those who impute it in debates. Because the state of our foreign debt I won't talk about internal debt is such that it simply doesn't allow in these times some kind of cash payment. So I would dare say that even if one part of the debt in cash is offered to pay off we would have to refuse and say, if that part of the cash should be given for this other part of the increased pension that applies to all pensioners not only to those who need to be paid back. Therefore, solutions through the fund are the only possible solution at this point in time in our thinking and our evaluations. Was it possible before otherwise likely that, but there was no good will to do so. Surely we wouldn't be talking about it today if there weren't any of our MPs in the Parliament. These are the questions that are also related to this segment that we are discussing today. Still, let me say one more thing. By listening to this debate, you can't take away the impression that let's say in a good part of here that has an understanding of these problems, and that can only encourage us, and then we'll expect you to support what we've done together with our partners that we've made an agreement with, we've found as the only possible optimal solution and that it's certainly commendable that we've managed to make such a deal. As far as the question is concerned, how will the fund work? I think there will be plenty of time to discuss the functioning of the fund, its concept, its success, etc. Let's discuss it when we have the law on the agenda and that there will be plenty of opportunities to really look at and tell everyone what it really means to each individual. We think it would be declassified now to enter words of what happened, to be, if it were, what would happen, etc. So we're in front of a segment that we need to solve in the context of solving the overall problem of pensioners' positions. That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u19207	Thank you very much. Two replicas. Dear Representative Joseph Leco.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u19208	Mr. President, dear colleague Pukleš insists that, in fact, he advocates that the risk of cash that the state recognises under this law is due, turns it into a belief. It needs a commitment that the state has and recognises by this debt that it carries the risk, creates the fund, is responsible for its business, and guarantees each pensioner a debt, not that pensioners take the risk through the legal person whether it will work, will not work, it is a great risk. You don't even have the right to do that on behalf of everyone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u19209	The reply to the replica is Honorable Representative Drago Pukleš.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u19210	I'll be free to remind a respected colleague, however, that in this presentation I mentioned that we'll be very much talking about what the fund is and how it's going to work, what its concept will be, and how each individual will be found in that fund. So I don't see any reason why it wasn't explained.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u19211	Thank you. Second Replic, Honored Representative Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u19212	I couldn't agree with my colleague if it wasn't for the HSU's representative in the Assembly that this wouldn't be discussed because much before the government IDS proposed a more high-quality Retirement Act to pensioners. Unfortunately, then suddenly this partial proposal came up and now we're discussing it, not a better IDS proposal, but hopefully we'll discuss the IDS proposal and then we'll be able to face these two proposals. And another about foreign debt. The foreign debt was let's say 22 billion dollars at the beginning of this year, but at the end of the HDZ and HSU coalition, it will be 31 billion dollars or it will increase the share of the gross social product from the current 73.7% to 78.1% of the gross social product, although everyone swears that the share of foreign debt in the gross social product should be reduced.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u19213	The reply to the replica is Honorable Representative Drago Pukleš.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u19214	Thank you very much. Well, look, there's no point in discussing the law that my colleague mentioned, because that's the first working-group version. These work versions are probably just not on the market yet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u19215	Thank you very much. Dear Representative, Vice-President of the House Mato Arlovic. Here you go. How? ... I've got you on file for debate. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u19216	... this bill for several reasons, regardless of what I have many objections to it in both formal and substantive terms. [[Specially enabled.]] First, the first reason he made me happy is the fact that now the majority party in the Republic of Croatia has finally admitted that there is a debt to the pensioners. Secondly, it follows in itself that no political parliamentary options are available in the Republic of Croatia today, which no longer recognises the existence of such a debt, thus creating an important political assumption that access to resolving this issue in a lasting way. The fact that until now, whatever we did, whether it was 50 kuna or 100 kuna, until this law from the last term of the Croatian Parliament, or last government, was actually an attempt to partially repay the debt, but there was no permanent solution to the issue of debt returns to the pensioners. I'm talking about debt, not compensation, and there was no question that made sure that the issue of the Constitutional Court's decision was resolved more permanently. The third reason why I am also happy is the fact that it is an old population that is at the end of its human, or life span and that there is really no point in waiting for this population and that even though at some point it was, let's say by means of a measure of the executive power, it is subject to a part of its claim or of its income that it was legally entitled to, in fact, in part and itself, agree to temporarily show a higher degree of solidarity at the most difficult moment for the Republic of Croatia and for all its citizens, in fact for the defence of the country. When that moment went by, it was necessary to immediately approach harmonisation because the fact, and as the Constitutional Court has also established, that the government of Prime Minister Nikica Valentic when it adopted this regulation on non-application of the provisions of the Law on, the Pension Law on Harmonisation at the time, did not put those provisions out of force. And that it remained a commitment when that regulation ceased to apply as the Constitutional Court and found that a practical new harmonisation was to be carried out which should have been made possible in the final line exactly what it is intended to achieve, which is to bring pensions, pensions received with pensions that were to be harmonised, to be accepted, in coordination and with pay movements at that time to which the time of application of the Regulation established by the Constitutional Court in its decision of 12 May 98. And if we look at it from that point of view then we should say that no matter what we think when it is determined that it must be determined not by an gro but individually for each pensioner because it was the right of a single pensioner to bring his pension into line with the growth of wages in the economy at that time. Second, when it is determined that it will be his claim to the State and that it will be a debt of the state towards that individual and third, it should be determined how and how it should be returned. I agree and probably everyone agrees that it is not possible to return all these money to pensioners and to pay them all at once. We need to find an appropriate solution to how to pay for it. But in that category, pensioners cannot only be covered by now living pensioners but must include all those pensioners who were alive at the time of coordination, from 93 to 98, by the end of 98. Therefore, this bill that we now have should also be taken into account, and I will say something about it myself later. The other thing to take care of. We can discuss whether the debt to the pensioners will return once, whether more wars will return, whether they will return in this or that period of time, but we cannot rule out certain cases in which a pensioner who has a claim on the state and the debt to it could not realise his rights and obtain those claims in order to solve some of the other more needs that have arisen. As is the case with the illness of him or his family, we should foresee such situations in that law that the individual, the individual pensioner, has the right to these claims, to be given to him in wars or immediately to, for example, pay appropriate treatment for the protection of his health, etc., or the health of a member of his family or some other cases that he should take into account. Now something about this bill itself. Dear colleagues and colleagues, he does not contain the implications, but in fact, in itself, accepts the fact that the debt is not recovered and that there is another part of the debt that should be paid back when it is included so far, in the overall obligation to repay the debt and all that has been paid so far. But what he suggests is very questionable to me. First, it is questionable whether it was necessary to pass this in the form of a law because this is not a law in content. This is the nearest resolution, which, since it is in the end line, indicates the situation and problems in a given area and the measures that should be taken in a given area. And at the same time, it is, in fact, this proposal and the substantive and preparative act that we undertake to approach in an appropriate way to resolve the debt to our pensioners. How? The law suggests that it will be a special fund, the law suggests that pensioners will be accounted for and actually complyd with their pensions with the growth of salaries in the economy, in the period for which the Constitutional Court's decision applies, and that at the same time, other than those pensions they have received, what they have received will already be included in everything they have received as a form of social assistance, either on the basis of specific laws which have explicitly stated in the law. And now, that part can be accepted, it's a methodology of reckoning. But what can't be accepted. It cannot be accepted that coordination is carried out on the basis of merely establishing the difference and that no specific act can be established. It must be individually determined how much this particular difference relates to a specific pensioner. And that's where it's supposed to be, there's got to be a solution. The second thing that must also be done is the fact to determine which methods and methods, the forms of financial resources will recover that debt. It can't be said that, in fact, this property, which will come from such a difference, will form a fund without at the same time asking any of these pensioners and that it is actually said that it will be a fund managed by a particular company, of course in accordance with the Investment Funds Act, and that, if it is earned, debt will be recovered from that property. It basically means that a debt, a debt return, is being asked, and this would turn out to be some kind of naked right, it couldn't be. And it shouldn't be because that would be a delusion, so if you want to commit a certain way and cheat the pensioners. And I don't think we have the right as a generation to count on it at all. The second thing I must also say is the question that it is necessary to determine according to the interest law what interest is only when the total mass of these funds is determined for each pensioner individually. And for that part that belongs to him, that interest must be determined and made a contribution to it. If it's a compensation, not a fixed debt, then gentlemen must say and determine one more fact. Is this about damage, if it's about damage, what about the loss of profit? I speak to the Parliament, not to the President of the Parliament, because the Parliament represents the Croatian people, not just the President of the Parliament. President-in-Office, the Parliament alone represents. Therefore, do not be angry that I turned to the Parliament. I'm showing you how much I appreciate Parliament. Therefore, respected colleagues here must also be determined and that amount must be determined as an individual claim in relation to this individual established principal of each pensioner. That's the part that belongs to him. Of course, one more question must be considered in particular. This bill has not always been implemented, as the bill would have to read so that a special law will be adopted to harmonise pensions for 93, 94, 95 to 98, by the end of 98 and thus a harmonised pension for each individual pensioner. When the amount of these funds is determined, it is only then to be seen whether they will all or some, but let me point out particularly important here, the constitutional right of each of these pensioners is whether they will accept that they have the status of founder of the Fund or not. If he does not accept the status of the founder of the Fund, then a legal solution should be found how and in what other way this pension should be returned to him. And that's why I'm thinking that it should actually be decided that it's the individual claim of each pensioner, that such a claim should be determined to what extent it is. That at the same time it is necessary to determine who is in debt and the debtor is the Republic of Croatia, that it should be issued for such a claim to the pensioner of the bond under which he is entitled to this claim. That on the basis of such a bond at a certain distance of time, because the state doesn't suddenly have the means to pay for it, it has the right to, to get its claim. Now, is he going to get out of the investment fund's business or is he going to get out of some special funds of the Republic of Croatia it can be like this, and that kind of solution can be a combination. In any case, what is the fact that the Republic of Croatia must pay it, so determined the amount of each individual pensioner. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u19217	Thank you very much. Honorable representative of Jure Bitunac.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u19218	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. Let me just briefly say a few words about this problem that we're talking about today. I can say for myself, I can say for myself. Zdenka, please. Excuse me. I can say for my part that this government has shown over the past six months one dialogue that wants to lead with, and leads, with all social groups, with defenders, workers, unions and certainly with pensioners. The government simply wants to be a citizen partner in solving common problems. Problems not only in the economy but in all social and general social problems. When it comes to debt pensioners, then we know that it was created in a certain period, in 93, 98, and that it was time to implement a stabilisation programme at the state level, but also wartime when significant resources were to be allocated, huge funds in order to defend and release Croatia as a state. On the subject of today's claims made by the pensioners, I can say that the former government has done almost nothing, and today we see from a number of MPs, I would say, major criticism about the way he thinks about it, and I believe that the discussion of the future fund, about the specific fund through which the pensioners will be calmed down in their claims, de facto that today is not the topic of this point that we are discussing. It's only going to be there in the fall. To talk about the future fund as a former fund that was part of pension insurance, I think it is declassified because we know that the shares and shares that have accumulated in it, in this former fund, stemmed from the request of the Croatian Pension Insurance Fund as obligations of economic operators to the same fund. Therefore, these shares were absolutely disputable and could not in any way have had a nominal value in terms of exchanges for shares. Of course that was part of a particular economic policy, we can be critical today and talk about the recovery of certain companies but I also personally think that even less results when it comes to the economy have been obtained through bankruptcy policy. I think this government is completely different and that the problem that we need today to solve by passing this Law that it will be realized in the time ahead. I can say for my part that I have noticed that the amendments of the two leaders of the opposition parties of Mr. Tomcic and Mr. Racan are going to improve this Law, and they are also aware that this proposal, which is ahead of us, is still a win-win in solving the problem and fulfilling the state's obligations to the pensioners. I hope that we will share through the discussion in the autumn of making other decisions and the Law on the Fund of Stories and the final realization of these claims. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u19219	Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect allegations by the respected representative Ljubica Lalić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u19220	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm a little surprised we've been talking all day about some things my colleague didn't register and he said the last government didn't do anything, so here's the public to repeat the last government, or this Parliament passed in 2000 a law that was passed by Government 1. 1. In 2001, he began to spend his debt on pensioners. Until 31. 12. In 2004, 13.5 billion kunas will be paid to pensioners in money not by promises but by money. 13.5 billion kuna is not an amount that can be called almost nothing has been done.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u19221	Honorable representative Anton Perusko.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u19222	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister, State Secretary, colleagues and fellow MPs. I do not want to talk about some legal misunderstandings and misunderstandings which are numerous advocates in the debate pointed out and which make me even more skeptical by the proposal this Law offers but I would like to say that if someone in the process of conversion and privatisation is drastically damaged that he was deprived of the national goods that he created and that he was taken away from a part of the small pensions anyway that it was then a large colony of our pensioners. And all the time this problem is trying and it's actually politicizing and the pensioners are doing a lot of politicizing and they're looking for a better life already today and they're asking for a simple return to what was taken from them. It is said that the proposal of this law, which is now under discussion that the state recognises debt to pensioners, is simply not true, the former coalition government has actually recognised the right to compensation to pensioners, and has begun to repay debt and to repay debt in cash in accordance with the objective possibilities in which the country is located. Here it is persistently potential that it is not something that has been taken away, but as Mrs. Secretary of State has said, and it is also a warm support for fellow Bosnjakovic that it is actually a matter of not being given. I can't accept that thesis, because I'm asking if it couldn't be given to the pensioners because it wasn't in these special war circumstances, how could it have been given to various "cutters", which could have been given to the factories that could get real estate, transportation, business spaces, and could have raised the loans in cash by enforcing as a guarantee of the debt of something that wasn't theirs, writing down a mortgage on those properties that they bought otherwise. Therefore, it is something else that should be said openly that at that moment there was no political will and it was that something was taken away and not that it could not actually be given. And he can't convince anyone otherwise. In my brief discussion, I will not repeat everything someone has done or what someone has not done because it has already been said, it is said in the way someone sees himself in this general nightmare but I will say that the model that is allegedly offered to pay back through this Law which I am experiencing as a continuation of that failed model of privatisation and conversion, with the desire and belief that Croatia will come to that stage of which fellow Milan Meden spoke to be a profitable business. But I don't see it in the near future, and I want it to happen, and I want to believe it, but until then, many pensioners will unfortunately not benefit from it. Why I started my discussion with conversion and privatisation, precisely because this model destroyed the Croatian economy and now I see in some way the continuation of this failed model although I want to believe that in the future in one... period will achieve these effects. The model offers a return of debt through shares, whatever shares, which companies and when. One day I hope, however, that today those who have lost these funds will not be able to reach them through this Law in a short time. I want to study to the pensioners that I personally have 182 shares of a tourist company that I bought on payment during the wars, in the second part of the payment and at a price higher than the nominal one in 94, and that this year after 10 years, I received a dividend of 208 kuna. I've been waiting for 208 kunas for 10 years. Now, if my mother is a beneficiary of a family pension, in the 1980s she can wait for the next 10 years, that's one big question and these are illusions that don't shine well on our pensioners. Just a few more words. When it comes to consent, in fact, the coalition agreement of the Croatian Party of Retired People who have received what they say is the trust of one part of the pensioners unequivocally, primarily to defend the interests of the pensioners and to ensure, among other things, the recovery of the debt, has agreed to one such false sowing of illusions at least one part of the pensioners who will not be able to welcome those positive effects that I sincerely hope will come and want to happen, however, will happen in one future when many will be too late. Many pensioners also called me and expressed their surprise that the Croatian party of pensioners could agree to one of these models, and from this model exclusively those pensioners who have died since the day of the Constitutional Court's decision to this day and that it has not protected their successors from obtaining these possible shares, dividends or I don't know what they're talking about when conditions are created. And to conclude, some positive effects are normally expected in a longer period, for some unfortunately it will be too late. I can tell my mother that in the near future she can't expect this law to have a special effect, if there's any good health to survive, I hope that these positive effects will come true. And my vote will be conditional, among other things, on how some of the amendments that the SDP Representatives Club together seem to have referred to me with the HSS in the procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u19223	Thank you very much. Correction of incorrect allegations, respected representative Ruža Lelic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u19224	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, Mr. Peru said that there was no money for the pensioners, and how the government could, how individuals could get the factories. So it turns out that the government assigned someone factories, which is not true. It is true that individuals bought shares, unfortunately mostly from small shareholders who sold them for very cheap money, often for a thousand, two marks. and, but they were disorganized, uninformed, and they didn't know what to follow later. And these individuals then abused it, whether not knowing it or knowing it on purpose and infinitely borrowing it, so we were against this continuation of the state's funding of infinite borrowing so as not to end up like these companies.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u19225	Second correction by the respected representative Krunoslav Markovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u19226	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, here's what I have to say to my colleague that the correction certainly refers to whether there was no political will. I don't know if you're thinking about us, or you, I really don't understand. But my pensioners say that your will has been passed over by those few kunas they felt less than the sting of mosquitoes, mentioned again.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u19227	Replica, the esteemed representative of Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u19228	So I would ask, dear colleague Anton Perusk, that he consults his colleagues and colleagues who certainly know the postulates of generation solidarity, and this law is based on these principles and on these postulates, so it will all be clear to him, without elaborated on it. Secondly, I would accept his claim that these illusions if this honorable home had not been passed before by a law that had placed 100 kuna and 6% in retirement, so no one was damaged from the position went to this challenge of finally solving the debt problem, i.e. compensation to the pensioners. And the third and last thing, the stock model, that is, this stock model, doesn't say anything, please look at the reasoning of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u19229	Replica reply, Honored Representative Anton Perusko.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u19230	So I thank my colleague Silvan and my friend. I'll try to accept that lesson, even though it has no basis. I'm telling my colleague Silvana to just ask his closest neighbors, so he'll see what they're up against and down the road. And to talk about 100 kuna plus 6% why our government didn't include it in the basics, and could, I think, the reasoned argument was repeatedly given by colleague Davorko Vidovic in this House, I wouldn't repeat it.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u19231	Thank you. Honorable representative Miroslav Korenika.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u19232	Thank you very much, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, Madam Secretary of State. I must say immediately at the beginning that I am sorry and that I do not understand the reasons why this law in the procedure was not immediately proposed to this high house and the law that would define the establishment of the fund, because then there would be a lot less arguments and probably even to the end, the intentions of what it really is about. In this way, we can only warn and depolize each other. But I'll take my turn. I have to say that the pensioners were damaged precisely in the period from 93 to 98. At that time, the most intense form of conversion and privatisation was carried out, and we know what it led to. That's why every parallel that's going to lead to this fund-building thing, I can't, so I can't remember. Yes, the very fund that was next to the pension fund, where there were shares and high-quality companies were changed for companies that were already in front of the strike or were at the end of their forces. I'm afraid that so far very few people have been responsible for these marifetteluke, and at the same time, the pensioners have been directly damaged, because simply by converting and privatising the economy has worked less, so there has been less isolation into pension funds. But where there could have been a dividend that could have been used to pay the pensioners, nothing was done. It is precisely because I cannot agree with all those who say that the government has passed and all of us who have been representatives in the previous term of the Parliament have done nothing. It's an indisputable fact and only the unwitting can say that the pensioners in their funds at the end of this year will be paid 13.5 billion kuna. We need to be aware of that and we need to publicly say that a pensioner or a pensioner, for example, from the Vartex of Vartex, who now has a salary of 1,500 kuna and cannot expect a large pension. And we here often spread illusions to people that they will have high pensions, and instead of realistically telling them about small wages, there can be no high pensions. In doing so, pensioners are just a layer of people who serve their obligations best and most regularly. That's exactly why I'm having second thoughts about this fund. I'm afraid of a possible scenario that I'm warning you in advance. Retired people need money now. I often led the controversy with my late father, who had never known how money could not be paid. He was aware that the state had no money, but he often saw that the priorities of this country were quite different for some stadiums and I don't know what not, for luxury there was money, simply for the pensioners there wasn't. That's exactly why I'm warning you most well-meaningly. Retired people need money. The foundation of a pension fund allows pensioners to reach a number of shares. There will again be bags that will have a lot of money, which for maybe 10 or 5% of the value of these shares will buy shares, we will have the tycunisation of society in Croatia again. We will have pensioners who because their needs are great and we ourselves are aware that we have raised excise duties, that some taxes, that the prices of some products are growing, their need to sell those shares will be, and therefore some will come in a very cheap and easy way to regain great property. Another thing I'm warning you about. Why doesn't the state set up a fund that will guarantee that he will always work on the dividend principle. Because I have to say, neither my late father nor my mother ever gambled business. By setting up the fund and getting the shares they are forced to gamble, that is, this time only my mother. I'm warning you, how can you get someone to gamble? Likewise, this law will not issue a solution to the level of debt and difference, and then to whom is one of the pensioners who is often considered to be damaged and justified in order to achieve justice for himself? That is why it seems to me that this law buys time, and that it buys time for the next year, and after that, it seems to me that we will come to a relatively fast change and addition of this law. In this regard, what I find positive with this law is that finally the majority of parliament have seen, admit that debt exists, just reminding them that they have also promised to cut the level of TV subscription for our pensioners in the guarantee card. I'm afraid, like this, it'll just go into the wind, as we all know the amount of the subscription is an increase, and unfortunately it's not reduced. Therefore, I express skepticism towards the adoption of this law, and again I would be far more pleased if we had a whole series of laws that we could then talk about in the package, I would probably have less skepticism under the law and that the pensioners would realize and actually get what I think and I'm afraid to get real from this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u19233	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Josip Djakic is correcting the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u19234	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, I will correct Mr. Korenik's incorrect allegations where he claimed that we often claim that their government was doing nothing. That's not an exact quote. You worked all the time to get the state to $24 billion in debt, to lead to destruction and bankruptcy. These are your deeds in the past term.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u19235	Thank you very much. We've finished the debate individually. We've got five club representatives in five minutes. The first is the club of representatives of HSS respected representative Ljubica Lalic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u19236	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleagues and fellow MPs! Well, during today, we have debated in various ways but discussed a bill entitled to implement the Constitutional Court decision of the Republic of Croatia since 12 May 1998. During the overall debate, they were not the least removed dilemmas and we did not answer the questions I raised in the opening statement in my review of the law. And further, I can't when I get out of this assembly hall, I can't give an answer to the question of the pensioners how much will be returned to them. I can give them an answer that they don't know it, that it'll be accounted for by law within a year. I cannot give them an answer either to the question asked or when they will receive and when, after a year of reckoning, which is the difference and what amount would actually belong to them, I can't tell them then and then, but I must tell them exactly what this law says and this law in its Article 1(2) says that for this purpose, a special fund will be established which will be established by a special law which will regulate its activity, rights and obligations in the implementation of the compensation method. So they had every right to say that we don't really know what kind of fund it's all about until it's regulated. And now if we are the most optimistic and assume that it will be a successful fund, that this fund will get for the money, that the money will be able to pay off the debt of the citizens again, and when it will be because Article 6 says this, that within a year of the entry into force of this law, it will be established and started with the work of a special fund. It's just not possible. Why isn't it possible? Because the initial value of this fund is based on the calculated difference and, if the difference is to be calculated within a year, that fund cannot be established before the deadline of one year and after that, it only starts working in what way, how, with which property we do not know. Here, this is enough to stay with that original thinking and that we cannot support such a law for these reasons unknowns who have not received an answer either during this debate but we must also warn that this law cannot bear the name of the Law implementing the Constitutional Court's decision. In order for him to bear such a name, he must be very specific, he must answer these questions that we have asked. However, he only regulates it is delaying the solution. When will the Constitutional Court's decision be carried out? Then when the pensioners are compensated. When they're compensated, we don't know. How they'll be compensated, we don't know. What kind of fund he's gonna be, we don't know. Who's gonna run that fund, we don't know. Well, that's why we don't know too much about it. We don't know the Croatian Peasants' Party Club can't support this law, because we believe that the law that was and which began to apply since 1.1.2001, which did not make a promise but gave the money, gave the completed 13.5 billion kuna in the pockets of pensioners. We think that such a law solves this debt more successfully because according to the information we receive from the pensioners, they would be more satisfied that we can give them an answer to these questions that they are asking, even if they were told that by a delay, on the condition that their successors or at least the first succession order have the right to inherit what they are not allowed and the basis of the law belonged to them and that it belonged to them, so it finally confirmed the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u19237	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HSP Club, respected representative Tonci Tadic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u19238	Your Honor, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the House of Representatives! Indeed, there is an unusual law that contains a whole series of promises but without any specific provision, so what is actually meant to be done or what is actually to be done. Moreover, the day is even a foggy deadline within which the deadline should be done. So the law is actually completely undefined. First, the first article makes it clear that it is not the return of debt to the pensioners but the compensation. So it's not about the repayment of the debt, it's about the compensation. Reimbursement means that pensioners will not get their debt but in some way, in some ways, they will be compensated. In this regard, I believe it is a key error of this law, so it is advertised as the Debt Return Act, so it is, in fact, the Act of Partial Reimbursement of Retirement. Walking through the square of Ban Jelačić under the break of the assembly session met me an older lady and asked me, Mr. Tadic, if you really believe that they will pay us, or how much longer I will have to wait to get my money. I'm 82 now, and I doubt I'll be expecting it. So, in my opinion, these are the key messages of all pensioners. So how long will they really wait for this law to be realized? The law therefore states that within one year of the date of entry into force of this law, a fund will be established. We don't really know how this fund is going to be filled, we don't know who his administration is, we don't know what the guarantee is going to be that this fund is really going to work and what's the craziest thing we don't even know how much he's really going to pay the pensioners, and that's why the words of those pensioners that met me in Ban Jelačić Square today are really shaken. She asked me, I repeat, Mr. Tadic do you really believe that they will pay us off and that I will live to get that money. I also don't believe in it all together as well as my colleagues at the HSP Club. We have just suggested that in the 99th and 98th, the pensioners should be paid back in part in the money, in part in the shares, in the bond work. We believe that debt returns through bonds, and we have been saying all these last five years that debt returns are real and only possible because bonds are the securities that pensioners can sell to them, and I can give them to someone to inherit, and I give them a promise that one day the fund will pay them, which is, forgive the government gentlemen, from the ruling coalition an unprecedented cynicism. So, we believe that this Fund had to be more clearly founded, that in parallel with this Law in Parliament there should have been a debate on the formation of a fund, that in that fund they had to sit shares of HT and not leave them to Deute Telekom but to those shares with such dividends that we saw full of this fund the other day. And if that wasn't possible, then you should have gone on a debt return through bonds. And promising pensioners a debt in cash means actually turning the National Bank into... printer. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And for all these reasons, we appreciate that this law has ended up admitting that there is a debt but we cannot accept such solutions. That's why we'll be abstentions in voting on this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u19239	Thank you very much. Correction of incorrect allegations, respected representative Fano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u19240	Mr. President, counterpart Tadic said that we have a proposal that we do not offer any solutions, incorrectly. The proposal offers very clear solutions and said it is still a foggy deadline. The deadline has been very clear for a year. The proposal is individual accounts and the proposal is very clear on the compensation. But what he also incorrectly claimed was that in today's break he met a lady. A colleague of Tadic's today, but there was no break today. You've missed a part of the debate that would make it much more clear to you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u19241	Correction of the incorrect allegation by the respected representative Krunoslav Markovnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u19242	Thank you, Mr. President, so here's to correct this incorrect assumption that we've inherited promises in the style of that rye prepared, a rabbit in the woods. Finally, ask your SDP colleagues when we have prepared the rye that the rabbit was burned.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u19243	The basses have their own tongue. On behalf of the SDP Club, respected representative Milanka Opačić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u19244	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Well, on behalf of the SDP Club, I would like to say that we are glad to have discussed how to repay the rest of the debt to the pensioners and what solutions are sought, however, I must say that we are sorry that this law is very unarranged, which is undefined. And we don't think there was any reason for this law to be in such a hurry in the process and that it could be done, that we could get some other laws here that would give a complete picture of the whole concept of how it's thought to solve the problem of paying back to the pensioners. In our opinion, it is good to decide to go to an individual calculation so that each pensioner knows how much he has remained suspended and how much his financial resources will have in one way or another. Unfortunately, we at the SDP Club cannot subsidise solutions in which pensioners are provided only calculations by the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute because these calculations do not mean anything, do not constitute any legal act, so they do not give legal certainty to pensioners that what is written on their papers, so these calculations will indeed be paid for. The SDP and HSS Club therefore submitted an amendment requesting that the difference referred to in paragraph 1 be established. The Croatian Pension Insurance Institute is issuing a solution to pensioners and that these solutions are also issued to those pensioners who died in the meantime and that this can be transferred to the first... The order to make this law consistent. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Because the law is inconclusive and we do not know in this section when it comes to the establishment of funds and shares, what this will all lead to also the SDP Club and the HSS have made a joint proposal for the conclusions that I will read, they say: "The Government of the Republic of Croatia is in charge of making the Fund Act referred to in Article 1. The law implementing the Constitutional Court Decision of the Republic of Croatia since 12 May 98 ensures that at least 14% of the following companies are entered into the fund: INA d.d., HEP d.d., Croatia Insurance d.d., HT d.d., at least 20% of the remaining portfolio of tourist companies and the entire assets of the Croatian Pension Investment Society. The difference will be settled in real estate owned by the Republic of Croatia. If the Government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept our conclusion and this amendment we will be abstentioned.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u19245	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Croatian Party of Retirement Club, the respected representative of Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u19246	The Honorable President, esteemed colleagues and colleagues here today are not explicitly told whether the state or not will form a fund but surely one thing is that this Special Fund Act will be adopted by this Assembly and that a special background will be established under that law. I'd like to confirm some more facts that have been said today and something else to try to explain. The fact that the Croatian Party of Retired has, for the first time, joined all pensioners’ associations and who perform together and seek a possible solution, not what is desired because it is easy to say, it is difficult to realize. As for the esteemed colleague Tadic, we would agree immediately on the bond, but there is no force in Croatia that can issue bonds on this debt. It's clear to everyone. We can't do this on behalf of the state. Maybe we can use the fund. But then. And that's why we're not talking today, not talking about the fund. We can give what is the greatest security and therefore the Croatian party of pensioners will advocate. The fact that associations together with the Croatian Pensions Party act constructively, do not act on the burden of others and should be appreciated. Furthermore, promises, promises, promises are spoken here today, that everything begins in life with promises and what we have at home begins with promises and those promises are either not fulfilled or partially fulfilled or fully fulfilled. I know very few who fully keep their promises. But for those promises made by the Croatian Party of Retirement in its pre-election programme and what is set in agreement with the then prime minister of the Croatian Government for the time being can be said to be fulfilled in both deadlines and column. We'll see quality and content, but let's leave time to show it. I cannot guarantee as none of you will be in the future. However, I appeal to one thing. Let's finish, let's start finishing the debt story because the pension system is piled up with huge problems and huge irregularities. We also have a problem with our reform of the pension system. With a new pension system. I don't want to take the time today, but I know exactly what's wrong. We don't want to tear it down. And retirement organizations don't want to tear it down, but there's something to fix. Each party bears its share of responsibility for voting under this law. But I can only say that who works can and can happen to be wrong but only one who is not satisfied with the current situation accepts new challenges and tries to solve the problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u19247	Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the respected representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u19248	Dear Mr. President, my colleague said it's impossible to pay the bonds back. It's possible. It's exactly prescribed in, when bonds are made, and we know that bonds are securities and pensioners can use them at this time. And with this way he's saying he's expressing his own skepticism, this is what he's saying. Because watch the fund, we said on behalf of the club, the fund serves to cover cash payments and that bonds could reach in a way. So this would secure money. This, I'm surprised he suspects what he's going to vote for. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u19249	On behalf of the HDZ Club, a respected representative, Vice-President Luka Bebic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u19250	I will begin my discussion again, ladies and gentlemen, with optimism and gratitude. Thanks to the pensioners for participating largely in the war effort of our country in 1993-1998. We can thank them and thank them, but we owe them a debt to fix and correct what happened, which is a non-compliance of pensions during that period. That's why we propose these laws. We have faith in it, determination to go that way. In terms of the fund and what the fund will be and everything related to the fund will be passed by a special regulation and law, perhaps. The money in the Treasury doesn't have every invitation to be in cash or bonds that would be charged in an inappropriate time for the State budget, it's inrealities and we've resorted to a real, real model that may cause infidelities, reserves, suspicions, but it's part of what our colleague Hrelja says, part of the trust we want to believe that this will all be okay. We want to believe that, and we are firmly convinced of it, and we will be determined to do so. Now if there was no earlier determination or trust of each other that you could jointly propose a model such as the HDZ and the majority of the assembly together with the Retired Party has the will and political determination to adopt and propose such a law, no one has, no one has stopped him for these six years since, since, since, when, the Constitutional Court's decision to also decide and convince its partners that he has confidence, that he has power, arguments, that he has the will and desire to resolve the matter. We expressed that will through the bill of this law. It's not easy for gentlemen from the Retirement Party to be represented by the population. And that is why I find it very, very distasteful remarks on the account of HSU MPs who were spoken here because they represent one, one number of pensioners who, if they were cumulatively expressed, would not have 3 but far more representatives in the Croatian Parliament but by the existing system of division of the electoral units could not express it sufficiently, so they have 3 representatives. And if these other parties, including mine, had better solutions for the pensioners, then they wouldn't have been successful in the election. Well, we don't have the right to call on how we speak on behalf of the pensioners because if we had spoken right on behalf of the pensioners and if they had believed us, they wouldn't have voted for these three MPs and much more if they were cumulatively able to express the number of votes they received. Let's all be a little bit more modest about who's part of the retirement population. Yes, that we believe this will succeed we've given the appropriate deadlines for forming the Fund. It's a year. And how often our prime minister can say, and not just him, but others, that no pessimist has solved any problems like that, and we say we are optimistic. We believe in each other, and our main tasks will be looked at in this, the ones that we have proposed, how many quality shares and properties we will put into this Fund. There will be a review of the seriousness of these proposals, and I want to believe that it will be done in a good and quality way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u19251	Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the respected representative Tonci Tadic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u19252	Your Honor, Mr. President, I can't believe that my colleague Bebic doesn't know what the bonds are. The bonds are a way of lending with a very clear maturity date and with very clear interest. But they're also securities that can be traded with right now. And with that, our pensioners are compensated, and they can leave them as an inheritance to someone. This leaves the article of the Law to be inherited. Here, they leave an article of the law to inherit. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u19253	A colleague, Tonci Tadic, was once again one of the polemic differences in views with the MP, not the correction. But no Polish is not a correction to an incorrect assumption, that's another one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u19254	If I can correct the incorrect allegations, the bonds are securities.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u19255	I ask the Minister of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship Mr. Branko Vukelic to give final consideration to the bill's proposal. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u19256	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. Allow me a few sentences at the end of this debate, which apparently showed that there is a great interest in finally resolving the question of compensation to pensioners for non-compliance between 1993 and 1998. And as a few of you have been said through debates, and this is also visible in this law, from 1998 to today, there have been attempts to solve this problem in part. By 2000 and by the end of 2003, and here in this 2004 meeting today, there is also a proposal for a final law aimed at finally resolving and finding a model of pensioner compensation for that period. I want to make it clear that this law is not hazy. He's very clear and very clear on a few very important things. And that's what we were talking about, and I think that's what we all really need to be clear about. It therefore finds that there is this controversial period in 1993-1998 when there is no harmonised pension in full, defines the Law and who is exercising the right to compensation and defines both the model and the time and time in which this compensation model must be realised. So the law is neither accidental nor coerced by any party and I must repeat it again and say it again. Neither the Retired Party forced the government nor forced any pensioners. These were not the negotiations between the two parties, the Retired Party and HDZ. These were the government's negotiations, the competent ministries with all pensioners' associations and the Retired Party with a desire to finally find a solution that will satisfy all and finally resolve this problem in the given frameworks, possibilities and state of Croatia. Clearly, the model of the solution to this problem is defined through the establishment of a special fund, and I think there have been a lot of discussions and questions or dilemmas about the fund and its future. But I do believe that an premature debate about the fund is today, when we have made that clear, according to plans in the fall, we have a debate on the fund law. And then there's really going to be a lot of issues of resolution and I think that we're going to have a better chance of seeing a vision of how and how this fund is going to operate and how it's going to be in the function of compensation for the pensioners. The calculation of the difference and calculation of that compensation for all pensioners is individual and that is what is worthy of this Law and clearly stated. And that individual reckoning is the basis of every single person's share of every pensioner in the fund. I don't think we should doubt whether that reckoning will be done or not in accordance with regulations and rules. Because pensioners have their representatives and the administrative board of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute. For the pensioners, therefore, not only the party but all associations as well as in this policy of making this Law, have participated and will participate in all the processes that will take place in the implementation of this Law, therefore both in the accounts and with the professional services of the Pension Office. So I don't think we have any reason to doubt this is I repeat the joint work of all of us to do this Law in a just and just way. And a law that will follow in the fall. I also think that we shouldn't be running a story about funds based on the bad experiences and the bad practice that existed It should be just a guideline to us not to make mistakes from the past. But I think that the practice of funds of various investment and other people in the world, so I think it must be with us, too, shows that and how it can be a path that not only damages pensioners, but can also be a path that they will achieve and add value to. And I still want to say one thing in the end, there was a rumor and there was a story that this law was a promise. I think we all have to agree to the law can't be promises. We know how to make a promise. The law is to make promises. So the laws are the implementation of promises, what I want to say and finally I want to say, and the Croatian democratic community clearly said before the elections that it was for the compensation of the pensioners. We didn't say how, how much, we end up this way aware of the situation and the weight, but here in these six months, there's been a model of how one satisfactory solution can be found. Therefore, this Law is a obligation to be obeyed and therefore must be implemented by both the Croatian Government and all citizens. The law clearly states in Article 6 that within a year of the entry into force of this Act, a special fund will be established and started. And that is a clear and precise deadline, until when the fund law has to be passed and at a time when all these differences must be calculated for each pensioner. And at that time, there must be a fund to function. That's very precise and clear. This law if supported by the Croatian Parliament I believe it will be a commitment and it must be implemented as all the laws in our country. And I don't think we can talk about one promise to anyone. It's about a clear path and a law that defines how fast and which way we're going to solve the problem of restitution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u19257	Thank you very much, Minister. I am concluding the debate on the final draft law implementing the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia on 12 May 98. Since it's been announced that the vote will be at 6:00 p.m., I'm ordering a break by 6:00 p.m. And the president of the HD ClubFor Mr. Luka Bebic has scheduled a session of the HDC Club in a small eternity at 5:30. A stop until 6:00 a.m. when we start. I ask the ministers to be in the hall at exactly 6:00 p.m. Minister of Finance, the one who will explain it to the Ministry of Finance for the amendments. Final draft law implementing the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia since 12 May 1998, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 140. The debate on the text of the Law is over. The amendments were submitted by the SDP and HSS Representatives' Club and the HNS and PGS's Club of Representatives and MPs Zeljko Antunovic. I would ask Secretary of State Vera Babic to take note of amendments to the SDP and HSS Clubs on Article 4.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u19259	Amendment to Article 4 of the proposal of the SDP and HSS Club Government...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u19260	Mrs. Babic, please be a little louder because...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u19261	The government doesn't accept the amendment. It is the fact that the bill refers to the compensation of pensioners for insufficient pension harmonisation and is not about new law. That is to say, there is no room for a solution to the legal procedure to determine the new amount of pension.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u19262	Dear representative Milanka Opačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u19263	Well, look, we insist on this law and we'll ask for a vote on this amendment and we'll ask for a vote on it. For reasons we believe that pensioners have to get a solution, that they have to get a piece of paper that has a certain legal weight. The calculation you will give on behalf of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute means nothing and does not guarantee any rights to Croatian pensioners. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u19264	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. The amendment of respected MPs Zeljke Antunović.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u19265	The government doesn't accept the amendment. As the final draft of the law covers compensation to pensioners for the partial harmonisation of pensions during a given period, this compensation must only be observed through the pension insurance system and pension coordination system in that system, and it has always been related to current harmonisation, with the coverage of those pensioners who are paid, and not vice versa.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u19266	Dear representative Željka Antunović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u19267	I cannot give up this amendment and it is because of the two fundamental principles that the legislator himself introduces by this law. It's about the principle of individualization, the right to compensation for pensioners. This means a special calculation for each pensioner, whether or not a solution will be issued. But also, the right to inherit by the heirs of the first inheritance order. As a result, although I personally do not believe and it is entirely uncertain whether under this Law anyone will exercise any or any right, but it at least opens up hope. I think that, at least, we should give hope to all pensioners who were suspended during the period from September 1st 93rd to December 31st, 98. And not only those who have survived until this day. That's why I've proposed this law and I'm asking and I'm asking, in fact, I suggest that, through this law, all pensioners who have been suspended or their heirs are included in this law. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u19268	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment of the Club of Representatives of the HNS, PGS to, in Article 1.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u19269	The amendment is not accepted. The proposed amendment does not apply to the matter covered by the Final Proposal, which is exclusively to the implementation of the Constitutional Court decision relating to the partial harmonisation of pensions for an exact period of time.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u19270	Comrade Lesar, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u19271	In our amendment, we are talking about the shortfall in the part of the pension that was made in the same period as the Constitutional Court's decision. And not including this amendment remains completely unresolved and unclear, which is with that part of the pension that has been denied due to the miscalculated valorisation coefficient. And in the light of the proposal's law, the part of the denied rights is being discussed, so I ask for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u19272	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the votes he needed. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u19273	Mr. President, the same argument as the amendment to the same, similar to the SDP and HSS amendment. It is therefore that no decision is taken in the administrative procedure because it is not about the determination of the right, that is, this amount of pension.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u19274	Agent Lesar, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u19275	I'll give about the same answer. By not delivering or not giving a solution, every citizen to whom this law applies will not be able to react to a possible error that can be objectively made. There is no possibility of correcting that error, there is no possibility of protecting those rights. So, not only is it about the way compensation where the way dictates only the state, but not the one the debt refers to. By not accepting this amendment, we also deny another right of beneficiaries of pensions that have been suspended during a certain period to correct any frequent and possible errors in such accounting. Therefore, not only does it question the possibility of compensation, but not by accepting and maintaining and insisting on this proposed provision of Article 4 each user of that right, any potential compensater, deny him the right even corrections of errors that can be objectively achieved. If you really think it's in the spirit of relationships, I'm surprised that you know the international conventions well, and that's why I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u19276	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Restraint? I find that with 80 votes for, 4 against and 18 abstentions, the Law implementing the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia has been passed since 12 May 1998 in the text as proposed by the Government together with the amendments adopted. We have one proposal for a conclusion. In accordance with the proposal of the SDP and HSS Representatives Club, I am voting on the following conclusion, and first I will read it and then ask the Government for an indication, so the proposal for a conclusion reads: The Government of the Republic of Croatia is obliged to draw up the Fund Act referred to in Article 1. The law implementing the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia since 12 May 1998 ensures that at least 14% of the following companies are entered into the Fund: INA d.d., HEP d.d., Croatia Insurance d.d., Hrvatski Telekom d.d., at least 20% of the remaining portfolio of tourist companies and the entire property of the Croatian Pension Investment Society, the difference will be settled in real estate owned by the Republic of Croatia. I ask the Secretary of State, Mrs. Vera Babic, to be made aware of this proposal on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u19277	Mr. President, the government does not accept the proposal for a conclusion. This matter, as we discussed in the discussion, will be the subject of a special law. That arrangement, these substances requires a previously very complex analysis of both the state portfolio and a whole series of circumstances, and I don't think it would be opportunistic to prejudge the obligations as proposed.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-15-0.u19278	A vote is required. Please, who's in favour of this proposal's conclusion? Thank you for not getting the necessary majority.
