ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u15766	Ladies and gentlemen, I am opening the 8th session of the Croatian Parliament. I warmly welcome you all. I particularly welcome the Prime Minister, Mr Ivo Sanader, the Vice-Presidents and the members present in the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Ladies and gentlemen, we are moving on to the agenda of the session. With the invitation to the session, you also received a draft agenda. You are also given the final draft agenda at the session. In the final draft agenda, I included 5 points in the agenda of the 7th session, which we did not discuss and 5 new points of this discussion: 1. Proposal for a law on the confirmation of a contract between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of France on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of the avoidance of income tax by the Final Bill, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, Bill No 133. 2. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Spatial Regulation with the Final Proposal for the Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading. Bill number 129. 3. Proposal for a law on the Croatian Memorial Documentation Centre of the Homeland War, first reading. Proposed Law No 132. 4. Proposal for a law on the repayment of debt to pensioners with the Final Bill. Proposer of IDS Representatives Club, emergency procedure, first and second reading, Proposal for Law No 127. And 5. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Road Safety Act with the Final Proposal of the Law. Proposer Zeljko Pavlic, emergency procedure, first and second reading, Proposal for Law 131. This Regulation shall enter The Rules of Procedure determines firstly that the proposal to adopt a specific law is to be adopted by an urgent procedure. The final draft agenda in points 1 to 3, points 5 to 10 and paragraphs 26 and 27, which are proposed to adopt by emergency procedure. These are: 1. Proposal for a Law on Confirmation on the Third Amendment of the Treaty on the Establishment and Labour of the International Centre for the Development of Migration Policy. Law number 117. 2. Proposal for a law on the confirmation of contracts between the Republic of Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina on common locations at border crossing points. Bill number 120. 3. Proposal for a law confirming further protocol to an agreement between the States of the North Atlantic Treaty and other States participating in a partnership for peace on the legal position of their forces. Proposal for Law 121. 4. Proposal for a law on the confirmation of a contract between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of France on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of the avoidance of income tax, Proposed Law No 133. 5. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Act on Special Taxes on Personal Cars, other motor vehicles, vessels and aircraft. Proposed Law No 124. Six. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Special Taxes on Tobacco Products, Proposal for a Law No 123. Seven. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Land Books, Proposal for Law No 122. 8. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Spatial Planning. Proposal for Law 129. Nine. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Construction Act with the Final Proposal for a Law, Proposal for a Law No 116. Ten. Proposal for a law on the repayment of debt to pensioners with the Final Bill. Proposer of the IDS Representatives Club. Bill number 127. And 11. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Road Safety Act, emergency procedure. Proposer Zeljko Pavlic. Bill number 131. Do any of the representatives have any objections to the application of an emergency procedure in the adoption of these laws? Thank you. Dear Representative Ante Djapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u15767	Mr. President, we are strongly opposed to the 3rd item of the agenda at the HSP Club. This is the proposal for a law to confirm the further additional protocol to the agreement between the States, the parties to the North Atlantic Treaty and the other states that participate in a partnership for peace on the legal position of their forces with the Final Proposal of the Law. We believe that this debate is premature until the decision of the Croatian Parliament has been made, and that was that within the deadline of, on a proposal from the Croatian Party, the right to be held within 60 days, and it has been 90 days, a debate on the situation in the Croatian Armed Forces. We therefore hold that we should therefore be able to implement the decision of the Croatian Parliament, get a report on the situation in the Croatian Armed Forces, so that after that debate, we can discuss it more competently and more argued about this third point. So let's oppose an emergency procedure and generally putting a point on the agenda. So we are to remove this point to the agenda, and to include the point of the defence minister's report on the state of the Croatian armed forces.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u15768	Thank you. Honorable Vice-President Luka Bebic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u15769	On behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Club, I propose that an emergency procedure be removed from points 26 and 27. Proposal for a Law No 127 and 131 on the repayment of pensioners' debt and amendments to the Security Act So I suggest we remove the emergency procedure and unnecessarily, go to regular procedure. [[/Intruder: Louder a little.]] [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] [[- Okay. - Okay.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u15770	Thank you very much. We will vote on each of these objections when it comes to determining urgency. Now we're going in a row. Under 1st, who is to apply the emergency procedure for the adoption of the Treaty Confirmation Act, please? What? ... Now we're going to vote on every single law, colleague Cain. ... [[/The intruder doesn't understand.]] I asked who's objecting to a particular bill code, an emergency procedure. [[/The intruder doesn't understand.]] Please, you haven't answered. You're picking up now. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u15771	Your Honor, Mr. President, the Honorable Prime Minister. The IDS Club is here after we heard Mr Bebić asking that this Debt Reimbursement Act be maintained in the emergency procedure, however, the IDS Club has objected to proposals, to the inclusion of an emergency procedure on the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Special Tax on Personal Cars, or we have an objection to the inclusion on the agenda under the urgent procedure of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Special Tax on Tobacco Products until the Government tries to find a modus to tax the extra profit of Croatian monopolies.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u15772	Just a moment to write it down. Dear Representative Pavlic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u15773	So let me just say the same thing about the proposal so it's not an emergency procedure for point 27, so it's about traffic law security, just to point out that the government is also She prepared this Law but by the same procedure, so there is no reason for this Law to be treated in the same way as the government's law, and for the same reason he handles it. [[Intruder: Please!]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u15774	It's not an objection to the urgency of the procedure. A colleague of Tadic's.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u15775	Mr. President, on behalf of the HSP Club, I object to the emergency procedure at the first point, so we believe that this point concerning migration policy issues should go on a regular basis. So let the debate be held, but in two readings, given the whole series of problems that are related to migration policy. I also object on behalf of the HSP and on the second item of the agenda concerning the agreement between Croatia and BiH on common locations for border crossings, and I must also warn that Croatia and BiH have not yet ratified the border agreement. So it's strange to think we're going to such an emergency with the border crossing agreement.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u15776	Thank you. Is there any other advocates objecting to the inclusion of these individual 11 bill proposals and points to bring about an emergency procedure? There isn't. Now we're going to make a statement about it. Who has objected to the urgency of the procedure for the adoption of the Treaty on the Third Amendment of the Treaty on the Establishment and Labour of the International Centre for Development, the migration policy in this Bill's proposal, on behalf of the HSPa Club, to represent Tonci Tadic. Who is to apply the emergency procedure in order to include the agenda under the urgent procedure of this law? Thank you. Who's against it? I find that, with 114 votes in favour and 8 against this bill, it is included in the virgin order by emergency procedure. We also have a complaint from the HSP reps club. It is the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Confirmation of Contracts between the Republic of Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina on common locations at border crossing points. Who's in favor of an emergency procedure? Thank you. Against? I find that with 116 votes for and 4 against, and this law is included in the agenda by emergency procedure. Third. Also where we have a complaint from the club of HSP representatives about the application of an emergency procedure. Who is to apply the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Act confirming further additional protocol to an agreement between the States of the parties of the North Atlantic Treaty and other States participating in a partnership for peace on the legal position of their forces. Who's in favor of an emergency procedure? Thank you. Against. I find that with 109 votes for and 12 against, and this bill is included in the agenda by emergency procedure. Who is to apply the emergency procedure in the adoption of a law on the confirmation of a contract between the Government of the Republic of France and the Government of the Republic of France on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of the avoidance of income tax. Who's in favor of an emergency procedure. Thank you. Against. I find that unanimously with 122 votes in favour, on the agenda of an emergency procedure included this bill. Who has remained motor vehicles, vessels and aircraft for the application of the emergency procedure for the adoption of the law amending and supplementing the Law on Special Taxes, on passenger cars. It was an appeal to an ambulance by the pillar of the club of MPs IDS. Who's in favor of an emergency procedure? Who's against it? I find that 71 votes for, 51 against the agenda by emergency procedure are included this bill. And in the following law, we have an objection to an emergency procedure, a club of MPs IDS, which is the final proposal for a law on amendments and amendments to the law on special taxes on personal cars, excuse me, on special taxes on tobacco products. Who is the application of an emergency procedure in the adoption of this law? Thank you. Against? I find that with 70 votes in favour and 53 against and this proposal for a bill is included in the emergency procedure on the agenda. Who is for the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the law on amendments and amendments to the Law on Natural Books? Thank you. Against? I find that, unanimously with 123 votes for this proposal, the final draft of the law is included in the agenda by emergency procedure. Who is for the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the law on amendments and additions to the Law on Spatial Planning? Thank you. Against? I find that it is unanimous with 123 votes in favour and this bill is included in the agenda by emergency procedure. Who is for the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Construction Act? Thank you. Against? I find that unanimously with 120 votes for, on the agenda, this bill was included in the emergency procedure. Who is the subject of an emergency procedure in the adoption of the Debt Reimbursement Act to pensioners proposed by the IDS Representatives Club where the appeal to emergency proceedings is brought by the HDZ Representatives Club? Who's in charge of an emergency procedure? Thank you. Against? I find that 49 votes against 70 for the application of the emergency procedure for inclusion in the agenda. Since an emergency procedure has not been adopted, I will act in accordance with Article 160(3). The Rules of Procedure of this House. Finally, who is to apply the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Road Safety Act proposed by Agent Zeljko Pavlic, with the appeal of the HDZ Representatives' Club to the application of the emergency procedure. Who is to apply the emergency procedure for the adoption of this law? Thank you. Against? Thank you. I find that 48 MPs voted in favour of the emergency procedure against 70 and therefore no emergency procedure was adopted, and I will also act in accordance with Article 160(3) of the Law on this proposal. Rules of Procedure. There have been no written objections to the agenda that I have proposed with the call for a session, and this agenda is in accordance with Article 203(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure are considered adopted. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure, the objection can now only be made to those points which did not contain the draft agenda, accompanied by a call for a session. Under point 22, the Proposal for a Law on the Croatian Memorial Documentary Centre of the Homeland War was included, first reading, P.Z. No. 132. Any of the MPs object to including this point in the agenda? There isn't. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure should now publish a set agenda. I suggest as usual, if you agree that I do not read the full agenda but just to announce that the agenda set out is as I have suggested in the final draft agenda with the changes that have been adopted netly voted. The assembly is in agreement, so we have a fixed agenda. In accordance with Article 204, paragraph 2. I will propose to the Rules of Procedure an addition of the agenda of the 8th session to the following points: Under 1. Proposal for amending and supplementing the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2004, Proposals for amending and supplementing the financial plans for the year 2004 of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute, Croatian Employment Institute, Proposal for amending and supplementing the State budget and expenditure plan for 2004, Proposal for amending and supplementing the State budget and extra-financial funds for 2004. 2. Final draft law amending and supplementing the law implementing the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2004, second reading, Bill No 135. 3. Proposal for a road safety law with the Final Bill, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. Number 141. 4. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Violations with the Final Bill, emergency procedure first and second reading, Proposed Law No 136. 5. Final draft law amending and supplementing the Penal Code, second reading, P.Z. Number 88. Six. Proposal for a law implementing the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia since 12 May 1998 with the Final Proposal for a Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, Bill No 140. Seven. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on Scientific Activity and Higher Education with the Final Proposal for a Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, Proposal for Law No 137. 8. Proposal for a law on the special rights of the President of the Republic of Croatia upon termination of office with the Final Proposal for the Law, the emergency procedure first and second reading, Proposed Law No 138. Nine. Proposal for a law on the financing of an election promotion for the election of the President of the Republic of Croatia with the Final Proposal for the Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, Bill No 139. Ten. Proposal for a decision on the participation of members of the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia in the United Nations peacekeeping missions. And 11. Statute of the Electronic Media Council, confirmation. This Regulation shall enter The Rules of Procedure set out firstly to decide on a proposal to adopt a single law by an urgent procedure. The notice you received at the meeting on the points to be proposed for the completion of the agenda of the 8th session, in points 3 and 4 and in points 6 to 9 shall state the laws for which an emergency procedure is proposed. That's one. Proposal for a road safety law, with a final bill of law, an emergency procedure, first held reading of P.Z. No. 141. 2. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on infringements with a final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 136. 3. Proposal for a law implementing the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia since 12 May 98, with a final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 140. 4. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on scientific activity and higher education, with a final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 137. 5. Proposal for a law on the special rights of the President of the Republic of Croatia upon termination of office, with final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 138. Six. Proposal for a law on the financing of electoral promotion for the election of the President of the Republic of Croatia, with a final draft of the law, an emergency postuapk, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 139. I note that the proposal for a road safety law is proposed to adopt an emergency procedure. or that law bears the code P.Z.E. the application of the emergency procedure in accordance with Article 161; We don't vote on the rules of procedure. Does any of the representatives have any objection to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of these laws? Honorable representative William Herman, please be my guest.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u15778	Well, before those remarks, Mr. President, I'd like to ask that the quorum be determined.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u15779	Thank you very much. Please quorum. There are 73 MPs in the hall. I ask MPs and MPs to stay in the hall until the quorum is collected. I ask the presidents of the representatives' clubs to take the necessary steps to invite the representatives to be in the hall. Unless they have a different view that the order of the agenda and the vote on the already proposed legislation should be laid down. I'm asking the MPs to stay in their seats. Please quorum. I ask MPs to sit in their seats and ministers to also sit in their seats. Thank you very much. There are 81 MPs in the hall. We're going back to work. Do any of the representatives have any objections to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Infringements? There isn't. I find that the final draft of the law has been included in the agenda by emergency procedure. If it's okay with anyone, then... Who is for the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law implementing the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia since 12 May 98? Thank you. Against? Who's against it? I find that, unanimously with 82 votes for the agenda, this final draft of the law was included in the emergency procedure. Who is for the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on Scientific Activity and Higher Education? Who's in? Against? I find that with 81 votes for and one against and this bill is included in the agenda by emergency procedure. Who is responsible for the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on the Special Rights of the President of the Republic of Croatia upon termination of office? Who's in charge of an emergency procedure? Please, no comment! Thank you. Against? I find that with 82 votes for and 2 against and this law is included in the agenda by emergency procedure. Who is for the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on the financing of election promotion for the election of the President of the Republic of Croatia? Who's in? Thank you. Against? I find that unanimously with 84 votes in favour and this bill is included in the agenda by emergency procedure. Any of the MPs have any objections to the inclusion of any of the other points in the agenda? Dear Representative Tonci Tadic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u15780	Mr. President, on behalf of the HSP Club, I am expressing a sharp protest that is not included in the agenda the proposal for a conclusion proposed by our club regarding the Adriatica Project Implementation Agreement. This is already the fourth attempt to supplement the agenda. Mr. President, I ask that this be included in the agenda early next week.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u15781	Thank you very much. I signed today because it is fully in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and referred to the procedure of your club's proposal for that conclusion. Ladies and gentlemen, the amendment of the agenda has been established. Now I'd like to tell you a note. In the debate on the proposal for a rebalancing of the state budget, I state that Article 31(2) and (3) The budget law under which amendments proposed to increase budgetary expenditure and expenditure over the amount set out in the draft budget may be adopted provided that a reduction of other expenditure and expenditure is proposed at the same time. The expenditure and expenditure shall not be on budgetary supplies or on the burden of additional borrowing and shall therefore be subject to the notification of the home and the representatives of those amendments which are not drawn up in accordance with this provision of Article 31. The budget law will not be included in the parliamentary procedure. We are now going to vote on the debated agenda points, the rest. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we will proceed with the session's work. I welcome the Prime Minister, members of the government. I ask the president of the HSS Club, Mr. Zlatko Tomcic, to take his word on behalf of the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u15783	Thank you, thank you very much, Mr. President, for your understanding. In fact, we didn't want to spoil the order at this session and ask for interruptions, breaks, waste time, but we ask you at the beginning of the session, and I think it will be easy to achieve today, given that I see the Prime Minister here. Given the facts that occur around genetically modified seeds, which is prohibited by our Nature Protection Act, to enter in Croatia. Yesterday, Minister Cobankovic admitted to the Croatian public that about 2,000 hectares of corn with genetically modified seeds were radiated in Croatia this spring. I have no idea that both the Ministry and the Government are seriously accessing this problem. We believe that the problem is indeed dramatic. It's too big a surface, it's a surface that can actually create inexplicable genetic problems for the plant world in Croatia. Since it's a serious teat, as you can see these corn stems have begun to classify, in a few days the pollen will start spreading and then it'll be too late to stop possible damage. We therefore demand and pray, not ignoring this problem which is indeed dramatic, which we all do not understand at this point in the same way, that today, during the day of the Prime Minister, it is clear how the Government is going to address this situation. In our view, the only possible way is to destroy all crops, but not in a way to leave the issue open to farmers how the damage will be compensated. Today, everyone needs to destroy areas that are irradiated by genetically modified seeds, all of them will be compensated, and of course the Government has the opportunity to refund with an irresponsible importer or an irresponsible producer. Once again, we have at our disposal maybe 2, 3 or 4 days at most. A public invitation to the peasants won't accomplish anything. It is simply necessary to give into one serious broad action the identification of areas that have been lit up, their destruction, but also to farmers very clearly promise that they will be compensated for all the damages of investments and any damage to the possible crop they would have achieved on that surface. According to our estimates, the amount is about 2,000 euros per hectare. These are not excessive amounts, our Nature Protection Act provides for penalties for those irresponsible importers and producers of genetically modified seeds, and I again appeal that today's decision be made. The Prime Minister is present here, he can promise his authority in the name of the Government to the villagers that they will be compensated, and thus the government will keep that authority in Europe and in the world that Croatia wants to show, and we think that this is our great comparative and competitive advantage, to be free of genetically modified seed. I believe the government won't miss this chance to prevent this damage from happening to us. Thank you very much, given that we are here and the Prime Minister would be praying for his statement so that the action could go very spotless, at the same time, so that in the next two, three days all these surfaces would indeed be destroyed and the damage would be reduced to the most possible measure. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u15784	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the club. I would ask the Prime Minister, Dr. Ivo Sanader, to show himself about this proposal and announce what the government is going to do.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u15785	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Representative, you're knocking on the open door. All of what you said yesterday was announced by Agriculture Minister Petar Cobankovic. The government is already doing everything, so it's going to be just like you described it to the peasants, but of course we're going to ask the importer, from the company that imported the damage. But also all in the next few days... rooted out, therefore, all of this, there's no need for a debate. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The government is taking action, moving into action, everything has already been done and moving towards the realization of this. So we're totally on the same line and we want to protect it here within the next few days so it's not too late.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u15786	Comrade Tomcic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u15787	Thank you very much, Mr. President, for this informal debate. I highly appreciate what Prime Minister Sanader said, however, drawing attention that Minister Cobankovic announced at a press conference yesterday that he would send a public invitation to the peasants. I warn you that is not enough, I warn you that this is not how we will achieve those effects. What you said today is much stronger. So, a promise has been made that all will be compensated for the damage, and now let it be at the Ministry of Agriculture that in the fastest possible way, it identifies all the areas that are sown by this seed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u15788	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, pursuant to Article 204(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure, I will propose an addition to the agenda of the 8th session - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the Selection of the President of the Republic of Croatia with the Final Proposal of the Law, Proposer of the Club of Representatives of the SDP, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 119. Last night, an inter-party agreement agreed that the proposal for a law that was in the ordinary procedure should also be renamed as an emergency procedure and included in the agenda and debate today together with the Final Proposal for a Law on Special Rights of the President of the Republic following the termination of office and the Final Proposal for a Law on the financing of election promotion for the election of the President of the Republic of Croatia. This Regulation shall enter The Rules of Procedure determines firstly that the proposal to adopt a specific law is to be adopted by an urgent procedure. Do any of the representatives have any objections to the application of an emergency procedure in the adoption of this Act? There isn't. Who is for the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on the Selection of the President of the Republic of Croatia? Thank you. Against? I find that, unanimously with 118 votes for this proposal, it is included in the agenda of the emergency procedure, and I ask the chairman of the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system to include it in the agenda of the Committee's session, which he scheduled at 13:30. Ladies and gentlemen, I hereby conclude the 8th session of the Croatian Parliament and, in the opinion of the President and the representative of the Clubs of Representatives, those who have responded, I call an extraordinary session of the Croatian Parliament for the day of 16 July of this year at 00.01 minutes with agenda: - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Scientific Activity and Higher Education, - Final proposal of the Law on the Special Rights of the President of the Republic of Croatia until the end of the term of office, - Final proposal of the Law on the financing of election promotion for the election of the President of the Republic of Croatia, - Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on the Selection of Presidents of the Republic of Croatia, and - Elections and Appoints. The vote on these points, these draft laws which have been discussed, the vote on amendments and the proposals themselves.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u15791	Let me warn you of the breach of Rules of Procedure, Articles 187, 188 and 189. On April 28th, I asked a written question to Mr. Ivo Sanader about the situation in the Međimurje Tricottage of Čakovec. To this day, I have not received a written reply, although we have warned...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u15792	A colleague, Pavlic, comes at the end of resolving the government's debt to answer the asked question. It goes according to the Rules of Procedure after the current morning.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u15793	Okay. Let me warn you about this problem as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u15794	Please. The Honorable Representative, Ratko Gajica.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u15795	Mr. President of the Parliament, Mr. Prime Minister and members of the government. I will refer my question to the deputy prime minister and the minister, Mrs. Kosor. Mrs. Kosor, first of all, I'm going to give some examples that illustrate the problem that I want to highlight. In Zagreb, the Divjaka family was ordered to leave the 33-square apartment in which they lived for more than 20 years. It was some extra space, people put it into it, and now it's an alternative to going out on the street. They said they spoke to you, too. In Vukovar, the Rakin family lived in an apartment for 38 years, went out on a warrant after they had to come out to rebuild the building. When the building was renovated, others got the keys, they didn't. The alternative is also the street. There are 7 empty apartments in the Iron, whose keys are kept by people who are far away or far away, and others go around, they have nowhere to live. In Udbina there is a similar situation of former social housing not used for accommodation. In Knin, in the same area, there's little or no big chaos. I ask you, will you help these unfortunate people not to end up on the street and will you advocate or order that the housing and use of these spaces is done only by the facts and only by the proposition of the prescribed law. And I'd like to add, would you like to advocate that finally, and I'm warning you here and the attorney general does a detailed list of the housing fund and the way it's used? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u15796	Deputy Prime Minister, Minister, Mrs Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u15797	Thank you very much, Your Honor, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Your Honor, Mr. Representative. Of course, I will be busy within my powers in all these examples of which you have spoken and what I can guarantee in such and similar cases that no one will end up on the street. I can guarantee that on behalf of the government. Of course I'll see what's going on. As for this example of the Wildlings family, I remember, I received this letter and immediately intervened towards the City of Zagreb as I recall. I can't talk about the details because somewhere, here, so far, I've received about 10,000 letters, which in the government, as in the ministry. I wouldn't be able to talk about the details, but I'll get you a copy of those files, and I'll send over the overprints to make sure you have an insight into it. So, as far as the Rakin family from Vukovar is concerned, I don't know. I don't think I got their letter, but in any case, I'm going to check both these cases in the Iron and these cases in Vukovar, i.e. in Udbina, and I'm going to clearly intervene, or I'm going to see what it's about and in accordance with the Law and the Constitution, and of course I'm going to ask the government's commission that has the task of solving individual cases. So you have my word that no one will end up on the street. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u15798	A representative of Gajica.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u15799	I thank you for this word, Madam Minister. I would just like to say that we will be able to share everyone together when in this area it is just by fact and only by the proposition prescribed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u15800	Thank you. The Honorable Representative Joseph the Judge.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u15801	Mr. Hebrang, the Deputy Prime Minister, would like to ask the following question. A life-restraint contract outside the Heritage Act covers older people and pensioners. It is organized to come to their homes, urging them to move from private foster homes often to unconditional spaces, unprofessional care, and often semi-literate people. Lately, I've had about a hundred complaints received by the Retired Associations and we've given some of these complaints to the public defender. We don't know if it's an organized scam, but everything says that the number of cases is increasing. Does the Government have a program of solving older and powerless persons, and in return they leave their dwellings and their estates to the government and that the government temporarily takes care of those elderly? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u15802	Deputy Prime Minister, Andrija Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u15803	Thank you very much, dear Mr. President, Mr. Representative. The problem you're talking about is the problem of a contract between older people and certain individuals who make private contracts with them on life support, after which the apartment or some property remains owned by that natural person. It is unfortunately out of the law that covers the area of care for the elderly, it is unfortunately beyond ethical rules because the things you spoke of often happen. We can't intervene directly, but of course in the future I'll tell you what we're up to. We can't directly intervene because we don't have the right to control these people, these contracts, we don't have the right to enter a private-owned apartment, but what we did, it's to record this situation and we're going to propose a solution. The solution is very simple and it is possible in the current framework, which is that such a person enters a home for the elderly, and we copy his property to that home or we will see, the Ministry of Labour or, or the Ministry of Health and Social Care, etc., but in that case he must live in that home for the elderly. And instead of paying the expenses, he can give that real estate. That's what we can do now under the law. All the documents we're going to hand over, of course, to the State's Attorney's office because there's a whole series of illegal actions here, and this proposal that you said, that the government would take over their apartments directly, so far we don't have a foothold in the law, but we're going to consider that proposal, too, to see if it could be solved. In any case, we have to get involved in this because there are obviously a lot of dishonest and illegal activities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u15804	Representative Judge.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u15805	... [[The speaker is not on, you can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u15806	Thank you. Honorable representative Nikola Ivanish.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u15807	Thank you very much, Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. A question for the Deputy Prime Minister and the Honorable Minister of Health, Mr. Andrija Hebrang. Dear Ministers, problems with the functioning of hospital health care and these problems of its funding have come to a full scale over the past 15 days. It has been suspended, regular procurement of a series of necessary consumables has been suspended and for this reason a series of diagnostic procedures have been stopped, but also therapeutic procedures in many professions and in a number of clinics and institutions. The problem was radicalized in the Rijeka KBC where there was a sudden, absurd extension of the list of waitings from banal diagnostics and to demanding cardiological diagnostics that are most commonly vital, and a complete heart surgery and therapeutic procedure has been suspended. Cardiosurgery is directed to a collective annual holiday with consequences that you know about. I don't need to get them specifically for you. It is the death of several transported patients from Rijeka to Zagreb who were transported because of indications, i.e. because there were no procedures in Rijeka that were made there 10 years ago. I stress that we are in the tourist season. The question is, what is the ministry doing specifically to ensure the normal work of KBC Rijeka. I stress one of the two Croatian KBCs. That is, what seems to be the multi-annual bribery of the KBC over the monthly limit is resolved by correcting that inadequate limit because all objective analyses show that it is an objective lack and payment for the monthly 1.3 to 1.5 million kuna to ensure normal work. I would like to stress in the end that Rijeka KBC provides the population of the County of Primorje-goranska, but in the superior medicine of Istria, and a large part of Ličko-senjska, i.e. about half a million inhabitants plus tourists in this period, and the situation is very alarming because one of the three died in the transport of Rijeka Zagreb was also a foreigner which already has its consequences in one of the neighbouring countries in which it is written. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u15808	Deputy Prime Minister, Health Minister Mr Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u15809	Thank you very much, Mr. President, dear Mr. Representative, I vigorously deny all the allegations of your question for the following reasons: KBC Rijeka has been remedied from the sources of the Ministry of Health funds at the level of 40 million kuna by the appearance of this government's mandate, so 40 million of us have taken over the existing ones from previous years, secondly, since 1 April when the budget of this government came we immediately increased the monthly limit of KBC to Rijeka by 3 million kuna per month, such a limit never KBC Rijeka had of its history. Both at a meeting of the Governing Council and the administration when I visited them and when I told them they expressed great satisfaction and expressed their full agreement that this allowed the normal functioning of the hospital. As for cardio surgeons and collective vacations, it is not true that they are on collective vacation due to lack of funds. The Rijeka Cardiosurgery team consists of a small number of highly specialized nurses and doctors and always go collectively on vacation because if you went each in particular then you would not work for six months and procedures. Now they are on their regular 20-day collective vacation and throughout that vacation are on standby for acute operations. So right now they're going back to operate. The two relentless deaths we have also investigated are such complex cardiological operations that KBC Rijeka has never worked or will work, not because of the lack of money, but because there are too few such cases that the team in Rijeka may be experienced and therefore are being carried into Zagreb and the patients are being transported to Zagreb. So, I vigorously deny any lack of material resources, daily I'm in contact with the director, with the chairman of the board, the system works normally. The waiting lists in Rijeka refer only to acute and non-emergency conditions, all acute and emergency without waiting come to coronaryography and to intervention cardiological procedure... Therefore, what is called waiting lists in Rijeka is called in all Croatian hospitals, unfortunately we cannot rule them out because no one in the world has ruled them out but we are doing a programme to resuscitate this situation in a way that will record all waiting lists in all Croatian hospitals and for every diagnosis and waiting list the Ministry is developing a special programme that will soon come into effect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u15810	Honorable representative Ivanish.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u15811	Of course, since I know the good situation in Rijeka, I am not satisfied with the answer. I hope that the media will convey your answer because then maybe it will satisfy it and allow patients to get to what you claim they can come up with, like, a coronarography that isn't done. It is not done, absolutely, neither acute nor no, it is not becoming flats in an acute heart attack that was done and I must tell you that patients were transported for dissection procedures and... which were done in Rijeka and of which people remained alive, Mr. Minister, were driven and died on the road in the halls of Zagreb hospitals. This is what is written on a daily basis in the New List, the New List is widely read and it is not good for Croatian tourism nor for the overall story of Croatian health, I ask you to answer this question in writing, we in the county assembly tomorrow have a debate on the acute state of KBC Rijeka, and for this reason this is a first-class political topic on the northern Adriatic, I ask that with this oral response, you work hard and write and sign and write a written reply for reasons because it can be important to many who work and cannot do what you can do.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u15812	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Krunoslav Markovnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u15813	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Minister. My question is to Mr. Branko Vukelic and it is said: Is it possible to do something for people with disabilities from other and third categories who have acquired their disability in the Republic of Slovenia and have so far failed to consume any rights. The same question was addressed to the Croatian Parliament two years ago, but so far nothing has been done, please a written answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u15814	You're looking for a written answer?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u15815	Written yes.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u15816	Thank you. Dear Representative Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u15817	Mr. President of the Parliament, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers, colleagues and colleagues. Question to the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia. You made fun of the coalition government, which increased the traosharins to motor fuels and thus built road infrastructure in the Republic of Croatia. In a little less than 7 months, more than 1 kuna per litre has been increased, no new investments. By your guarantee card, you guaranteed Croatian citizens a standard of living and within a little less than 7 months you gave them 14% higher tolls, established new excise duties on cars and special small cars that serve citizens for daily work and life and excise duty on cigarettes. And the main problem is the inability to control spending in the state budget. New legal tariffs have deprived citizens of their right to judicial protection. Mr. Prime Minister, I ask if you can list me what is less than 7 months and what economic measures have been taken and ensured in order to ensure that citizens have a standard of living and safety....
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u15818	The Prime Minister, Dr. Ivo Sanader.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u15819	Mr. President of the Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, thank you for this question to the honourable representative Linic, and I can say first and foremost one thing that has nothing to do with the government should be excluded at the beginning, and these are tariffs brought by lawyers that have nothing to do with the Government or the Parliament, therefore I immediately exclude that part of your question from the answer because I can neither the Government nor any of the other political institutions are responsible for what one group in the Croatian Society does, which has an autonomous right to raise their tariffs, but I will say as a citizen that I am against such dramatic lifting of the bar fees, which I agree with you. When it comes to the first seven months of my government, I will not speak but I will let the statistical office speak, which just yesterday or the day before yesterday, present the latest data for the first 5 months of 2004. Industrial production is higher by 3.2%. Physically, I'm in construction by 10.1%. Number of nights in tourism, one big topic these days, which is spoken of with much bile but with little competence, the number of nights in tourism 10.3% higher. Trade at a little 2% higher, exporting 14.4% higher, imports higher by 4%, so imports are much less rising than exports, employment is higher by 0.7%, unemployment is lower by 9.3%, gross wages are higher by 6.1% and prices by 1.9% I think this speaks best of the work of this government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u15820	Representative Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u15821	Mr. President, I am not satisfied because I did not ask the statistics I asked which economic measures were secured and taken in less than seven months of government work. So I would beg to be answered in writing to that part. And also, Mr. President, you have the opportunity to propose to this House the law and the amendments to the laws under which, if they misbehave, you can take away their powers to raise them. No, we expect from the government, the government has promised a standard of living, citizens cannot defend themselves. So you haven't taken measures that you can take as a government and you have powers in that part. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u15822	Honorable representative Željko Krapljan.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u15823	I would like to ask Mr. Defence Minister Berislav Roncevic, the Honored President of the Croatian Government with his associates. The question is: How many military officials have benefited from the right to serve a civil military deadline, or has this been significantly increased lately? I will set an example of self-serving of the civil military deadline in Sisak-Moslavina County, where I have indications that in 99, there was only 2% and from 2000 to 2003 grew to 23%. I wonder what the Department of Defense is thinking about serving a civilian military deadline?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u15824	Thank you very much. Minister Roncevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u15825	Mr. President, Your Honor, Mr. Representative. The fact is that civil service of the military period from year to year is increasing the share of the total military deadline in the Republic of Croatia. I can and will write you a parallel table on this structure from 91st to now, but only last year's illustration of the regular military service was sent to a little more than 14 thousand military taxpayers, and the right to civil service according to the requirements and mostly issued solutions was used by 9,000 770 military taxpayers. Therefore, the share is growing significantly, which is in any case far above the average military service rate as a civil service of conscience, obviously becoming something else, and the Ministry of Defence is doing one study on possible full professionalisation of the Croatian Armed Forces, if financial indicators are such that we can suggest that Croatia has a fully professional composition and if there is no military deadline, then we will propose it to the Government and the Parliament for adoption. For the time being, the military term remains, and the ministry will propose amendments to the Civil Service Act, in which it would tighten the criteria and places where this legal option can be used. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u15826	A representative of the Krapljan agreed with, satisfied with the answer?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u15827	All right, I'm happy, if this written part can answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u15828	Honored representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u15829	I'm asking the question to the Honorable Minister Mlinaric. Dear Minister. Strange things happen in your ministry. A former Samobor policeman, Jurica Soic, was fired in 2002 because without the approval of the MUP, he was engaged in private entrepreneurship by renting Sibovic hunting grounds near Djurdjevac. He is also being prosecuted for the evasion of 180 thousand taxes. But the same Shoic you re-employed at the MUP on just one day, more precisely from 19 April to 20 April this year. And you hired him only to allow him to retire to police retirement at the age of 40, although the law clearly states that he can only be hired at the MUP because of the need for a job. By abuse of your right and overstepping your powers, you have knowingly and deliberately violated that law. When the man you obviously favored speaks to is what kind of man he is, he says that only two weeks after a happy retirement, he was arrested and detained by an investigative judge on grounds of suspicion that he stole a car and then extorted money from the owner. When the internal control of the MUP revealed that Soic acquired the right to retire by your abuse of office, you replaced the head of internal control Drazen Ivanusec. So you replaced the man who's been on the job since 1997, and you put a man who's been severely punished himself, because as chief of police station Medvescak covered up the launch of a crime scene, it was certainly your hit month. I could now remind Prime Minister Sanader that he has replaced Stanko Kovac, where road work that has been built for two years has been delayed for 10 days. I could ask him what he thinks, what laws should be broken by his interior minister, so he can be replaced or replaced only by those who are not members of the HDZ. But instead, I ask you, Mr. Minister. How long will this really weird thing be happening in your ministry?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u15830	Minister Mlinaric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u15831	Thank you very much, Mr. Representative, for this matter, it has already been subject and writing in the press, so that all the other MPs could have heard a little bit about it. The appointed police officer had conditions for retirement and when he was first expelled from the police, for criminal charges, or criminal charges for poaching, that was the reason why he was fired at that time, although he could already be retired at that time, because he had conditions for retirement that had been humane for a man who had four children and who had conditions for retirement, I am not protecting anyone, against whom a criminal act was being conducted. At the moment behind this, the criminal charges for poaching were dismissed, at which point Mr. Soic was admitted to the Police had not had any criminal charges, we have a solution to the Samobor Tax Administration where he did not owe any kuna to the IRS, nor any other application at the time when he was admitted to work so that he could achieve his deserved pension was not, so at that time he did not have criminal charges against himself and there was no legal obstacle to being admitted for one day so that he could retire. So that was one human gesture. And what man did after that, it's not about us anymore, it's about the criminal proceedings that will prove whether he's guilty or not. So, at the moment he was re-received for one day to exercise his right to a pension he had already had at the moment he was first fired, then he was two or three years without a pension, he had no legal obstacle to being admitted to that one day. So that's the fact of the matter. And the other two are unproven insinuations.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u15832	Representative Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u15833	Look, it's completely illogical, if he had the terms of retirement, which you hired him at all, he could've retired for one day, all of what you said about him was more about him and about you than what I asked in my question. Therefore, I am completely dissatisfied with your answer. Would you please get me a list of all the changed in the MUP with the reasons for the shift? Next, give me a list of all those set up and give me a list of which of them has, and how many criminal and criminal proceedings are behind you? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u15834	Dear Representative Zivko Nenadić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u15835	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, colleagues and colleagues. I refer the question to the Minister of Culture, Mr. Boza Bishop. I read in the press that under the Convention on the Protection of Undersea Archaeological Heritage, the Republic of Italy has declared an archaeological zone. Can you tell us what the position of the Government or the Ministry of Culture is related to the launch of the procedure for ratification of the Convention in question and thus opening up the possibility for the Republic of Croatia to protect the underwater archaeological heritage located outside its territorial waters. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u15836	Minister Biskupić, please!
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u15837	Thank you, Mr. President. Honorable MPs! The Convention on the Protection of Underwater Archaeological Heritage was adopted at the end, better said in November 2001. So far, it's been confirmed by only two states, it was in our press release. We have sent a proposal to the Government on the adoption of the Law on Confirmation of the Convention and it will then be sent to the Parliament and we hope that it will be confirmed as well. However, in order for it to have a valid effect, it must be twenty signatories. Therefore, this act of the Italian Government does not have an international and legal effect but we are of great interest, of course, to be also signatories of this Convention because we will thus be able to extend the protection archaeological zone 12 miles outside of territorial waters under this Convention.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u15838	Representative Nenadić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u15839	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u15840	Honorable representative Maria Byte.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u15841	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen! I ask the question to Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Government in charge of the economy, Mr. Andrija Hebrang. Economic issues are certainly key issues for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia and the issue of the employment of our citizens is closely related. Since we have the opportunity to listen to different information about the economic situation in the Republic of Croatia and also the net in the Croatian Parliament and that these days a statistical report on macro-economic indicators has been published during the first five months of this year, Mr Vice-President, can you present to the Croatian Parliament real data on the state of economic growth and employment which is certainly a key issue in the Republic of Croatia? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u15842	Deputy Prime Minister Andrija Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u15843	Thank you very much. Mr. President, your honor, Madam Representative! Mr. Prime Minister presented the basic indicators. I'll just do it again. Exports increased by 14.4% in the first five months of this year compared to the first five months of last year and in May, compared to May 2003, exports increased as much as 16.6% and total industrial production was 3.2%. Of course it must have a reflection on employment. But just a few words about why there is an improvement in macroeconomic indicators. Of course, because this trend was past and before last year but also because we introduced a whole series of new programmes into large economic operators, a large number of export-enhancing programmes, a large number of programmes in small entrepreneurship, etc. It's a subject that you could talk about for hours, of course. But the results are still positive and encouraging as far as employment is concerned. I'd just like to add before I get that information out that we're investing significant money again in this budget rebalancing right now for the active employment policy. Thus, the Croatian Employment Service will receive an additional 87 million kuna, the Development and Employment Fund will receive an additional 120 million kuna in the rebalancing process and trade companies will receive a new additional 52 million kuna. So it's a direct injection of 230 million kuna to encourage employment. What does the first five months look like? Looks like it still looks encouraging. In May 2004, a total of 394 thousand were employed and 305 thousand were unemployed. This is 4% more employees compared to the previous year and 4.7% less unemployed when talking about the number. When compared for the first five months of this year to the first five months of last year, the number of employees increased by 0.7% and the number of unemployed was even lower by 9.3%. So I believe that our economic measures that we have introduced and this state budget policy have a strong impact on such encouraging indicators. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u15844	Honorable representative Maria Byte.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u15845	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I am pleased with the response of positive economic growth which needs to be maintained and speeded up to reduce unemployment in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u15846	Dear representative Milanka Opačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u15847	I'm referring the question to Mr. Prime Minister Eve Sanader. Namely, several days ago, US Deputy Assistant Secretary of State said she expects a stronger engagement by Croatia in Iraq and the adoption of an agreement on the non-delivery of US citizens to the International Criminal Court. She called for the initiative to be launched by the Croatian side and talks were held at the ministerial level. My question is Mr. Sanader is whether all this information is correct and since such issues are being decided by this House by a two-thirds majority when will you open the debate on these issues in the Croatian Parliament and not just in Washington?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u15848	Prime Minister Dr. Ivo Sanader.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u15849	Well, we'll probably never open it in the Croatian Parliament because we didn't even open it in Washington. So, on several occasions here in the Croatian Parliament, I have talked about it, about various speculations and writings, and I can answer this latest very clearly the following. Neither the Croatian Democratic Community when we were in opposition nor today did the government we run talk about sending US troops to Iraq nor talked about signing Article 98. We talked about understanding American politics, we talked about understanding that the United States has often been in a situation where a third party is calling for help and then having big problems at home if this third or fourth one who called their soldiers to come as was the case in Bosnia and Herzegovina, as was the case elsewhere, as was the case unfortunately in Europe two years ago, means today in modern Europe when the European Union is stronger and in which we want to go couldn't solve the problem between, that incident between Morocco and Spain regarding that reef, so the United States came and solved it. So we show understanding of the fact that if they were called somewhere and they were called in World War II and throughout the 20th century to help Europe, then they have big problems if someone wants to keep their soldiers. Therefore, it is our understanding of the position of the United States and we believe that the European and American partnerships, the transatlantic partnership has no alternative but Croatia is also heading towards the European Union and will be part of the European Union's policy and in these two issues.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u15850	Representative Opacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u15851	Mr. Prime Minister, I'm glad you just said this because after an interview that I could read Mr. Foreign Minister his story was completely different, so I'm glad that you as prime minister of the government said that this information by the U.S. administration was false.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u15852	Thank you. Dear Representative Tonci Tadic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u15853	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the House of Representatives, honored gentlemen of the Croatian Government! I have a question for Minister Calmett. The government of the Republic of Croatia agreed to tender for the third GSM mobile phone network in April this year. The Telecommunications Council has decided to open the tender as soon as the documentation is agreed and that is as far as I know. Late tendering or late entry for a third operator means holding double the price of mobile telephony. So, therefore, retaining twice as much mobile phone prices as in Slovenia. It means keeping HT and VIP duopols and entering third operators means that the third one will have to invest close to a billion dollars, that the price of mobile phones will fall by almost half, that 91% of Croatians will use a mobile phone. And if this is not accessed, it means that HT and VIP will continue to share a profit of $2 billion at the existing high mobile phone prices twice as high as in Slovenia. So my question, Mr. Calmeta, is very clear. Why is it that under the legal act the government does not allow competitions for the third mobile network, or why so far has this not been done?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u15854	Minister of Bozidar Kalmeta. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u15855	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Representative, I agree with everything you've said. And I am a great advocate for introducing the third operator into the Croatian standoff. Because I'm really holding all of this and all of the indicators, the studies show that there will be a price reduction then with this service. It is true that the government has made a decision and has allowed the existing Council until the appointment of the Agency to open a tender for the GSM network, which has not been made so far because it should be said that the Council is calling for a third operator. The Ministry has done everything the ministry has to do. So we've brought all three regulations. Regulation on concessions and licences, Regulation on fees and Regulation on fees for services, fees for frequencies and fees for services. The tender that was made we gave to check the Faculty of Electronics and Computing which also gave some adjustments, so the tender is ready. Even I'm personally, although it may not even be necessary to invite all the members of the Council to a meeting and say, everything is ready, agree and call the competition. They clearly after that meeting couldn't work again, they couldn't meet again, and the problem is that. Let me get this straight. Everything's ready to call for a third operator. That'll happen as soon as possible. If the existing Council does not call, then it will in any case be called by the new members of the Agency, whose appointment will come, I suppose, because the government will send for a parliamentary session before the summer break.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u15856	Representative Tonci Tadic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u15857	Your Honor, Mr. Secretary. Any postponement of the tender means holding the duopolis, meaning that $2 billion in income is mixed with HT and VIP. What we are interested in is the possibility for the Government to launch a tender, past the Council, because it is the old Council anyway, and that the new Council, the future Telecommunications Agency, will see to it that the tender is carried out by the end and selected by the third operator. It's a mechanism I wanted you to do on behalf of the Croatian government.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u15858	Dear representative Marija Lugaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u15859	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. I have a question for the president of the Croatian government. Dear Croatian Prime Minister, I agree with the assessment that for a project such as the highway, it is completely irrelevant whether it will be completed 10 days before or 10 days later. However, when it was discovered that the Lika Share will not be put on the market, you said you did not want to open a highway that does not have a valid license and that traffic could not happen safely. But everyone saw that you were telling the truth, that it was not any security reasons, but simply the road was not finished. Earth work still takes place there. We saw all together that along that road, not that we couldn't drive any cars, that there was a hard-to-go construction machinery there. But, well, the road isn't finished, you should've found the culprit, and you've replaced the director of the Stanko Kovac Autoway. He said, "I deserve a shift, I'm guilty of trusting my associates and not going out on the highway every day." Minister Calmeta, however, didn't say, I'm responsible for building roads, it's my fault I trusted Kovac. You didn't say, however, I'm the President of the Government Road Building Committee, and it's my fault that I believed Calmetti. And my question is Mr. President of the Croatian Government, which of you three has done the most moral in your opinion?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u15860	The Prime Minister, Dr. Ivo Sanader.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u15861	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Ms. Lugaric, I didn't hear the last word, which one of you? Ah, more moral than you. [[Morality!]] Now, you're right when you say that one part of the highway wasn't even paved, but I was saying you called on my word that I wouldn't let go and that I wouldn't be able to get that part of the highway that was over but didn't have a valid license because there are such shares. So we have several types of shares, we had June 30th on the day of release, one part really wasn't even asvalued, one small part, very small, the very small part wasn't asvalued, one most of it was completely finished, 108 km and one part of it was over but it didn't have all the safety aspects, so it didn't have a root net, etc. And when, as Prime Minister and President of the Road Commission, I acted in a way that proposed a shift, i.e. I also supported Minister Calmeta's proposal for the replacement of two key people, so the Secretary of the Commission and the President of the Croatian Administration of the Croatian Highways, I did exactly the right thing. Because how else to act in a situation where we are assured in public will be over by June 30th and we know it wasn't over until June 30th. When I'm the most responsible man in this government, I'm asked to make radical moves when it comes to such failures. So I took it back, and it's my responsibility, that I made those exact moves. If I hadn't pulled them out and we hadn't replaced those people, then I'd be irresponsible.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u15862	Representative Marija Lugarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u15863	Your Honor, Mr. Prime Minister, I am pleased with your answer because in your response, the difference between being able to do the job is visible in your response and to transfer the blame for unfinished work to someone else. So in that sense, I'm done. Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, allow me, on several occasions Mr. Prime Minister Sanader called me.../ The pay phone went off.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u15864	Miss or Madam, if you honor the MPs, please address them from the representative. Dear Representative Drago Prgomet.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u15865	Mr. President-in-Office of the Parliament, Mr. Prime Minister, ministers, colleagues and colleagues. The question has been addressed to the Professor. Andri Hebrang, Minister of Health, Social Welfare and Deputy Prime Minister. Namely, your Ministry's proposed announcement of possible changes or even the abolition of supplementary health insurance has caused a heated public reaction and, in one part, socially endangered citizens and pensioners and justifiable fear of the possible loss of the right to free treatment, i.e. free medicines, pardon, on free medicines. On the other hand, all the countries of the European Union, and this, in addition to the latest report of the London School of Economic and Political Sciences, say that additional health insurance did not give the expected results that, in economic terms, produce large costs, and what may have contributed even more to us has not contributed to the quality or availability or equality of the health system for all citizens. As an example, neighbouring Slovenia can serve to abolish the existing model of supplementary insurance, and such a model is otherwise applied in the Republic of Croatia. Having these aspects, therefore this social and on the other hand this economic aspect that I was talking about is the question of whether and what your or your respective ministry will do in any change or possible abolition of supplementary health insurance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u15866	Deputy Prime Minister, Health Minister Andrija Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u15867	Thank you very much. Mr. President, Mr. Representative, you've already given a large part of the answer. Additional insurance has already been eliminated by the system organisation profession. However, he was introduced two years ago to us at a time when he was abandoned by Slovenia and all other members of the European Union and so on. It has been introduced for reasons that will never be clear to me, and the result of such supplementary insurance is the accumulation of huge debts namely participation in all systems is part of the management of health spending. In countries such as these transition countries that have now entered the European Union recently, not to compare the richest, health participation is about 25 to 30% on average. In Croatia, it is about ten percent. So we in the Budget are out of 20%, which in other countries separates the insurance companies themselves from their own pocket. What do you do? Health debt is growing enormously. The consumption of drugs is increasing enormously. Two groups of measures are possible. One that penetrates social rights and reduces others who don't. We are now working intensively on this second group of moves. We've developed 30 measures that we're applying, which I don't have time to list here and for which we'll see by 30 June what the effects have been. Unless they give effect, it is the ministry's duty to propose to this Assembly possible solutions. As far as supplementary insurance is concerned, there are three possible solutions. We'll propose them and make a financial stimulation of the model. The first solution is to remove that supplementary insurance. This is the most socially ill solution, and in this case we must find a measure that will substitute and replace such a privileged or favourable position for those who are the poorest. The second is to include elements, social elements or socioeconomic elements of the average income so that not all of them will not enjoy all the benefits of a pensioner who has 9,000 kunas and one who has 1100 kunas. So there's got to be a graduation between them. And the third is to make extra insurance to the free market. In this case, social measures should also be replaced with certain other proposals and organisations. We will prepare for the autumn and on the basis of a six-year report on the financial management of health care for the Assembly of various solutions and which are accepted we will implement.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u15868	Representative Prgomett.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u15869	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. In fact, I am pleased with the answer especially to this part that says that your Ministry will take care of the social aspect above all. Unfortunately, there is still a huge number of people in this country who need to be cared for by the state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u15870	Honorable representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u15871	Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor, Your Honor, Your Honor, Mr. Prime Minister. My question would concern the return of debt to pensioners or whether the Government of the Republic of Croatia intends to pay the pensioners and shares of the INA, Croatian Telecom. I hope not the HEP, and so on or whether the mention of the Fund, which has recently been spoken of, is also being introduced by the public companies mentioned above. Why? If this is not so assumed in my court, the remaining government portfolio will not be enough for one fifth, and let alone the full repayment of this debt more so than the government's representatives say in 2005, a particularly large inflow of state property sales is expected, and a return on debt should not be due until 1.1. 2006. I don't have a specific question for any government representatives, but that's actually a question. Perhaps Mr. Hebrang, Mrs. Kosor or Prime Minister Sanader.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u15872	Prime Minister Dr. Ivo Sanader.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u15873	Mr. Representative, thank you for this question because I think it is one of those who are very interested in the Croatian public. We are all aware that the material position of the pensioners is such that it needs to be improved, but it is a general, general impression and conclusion and a factual state. However, there is also a decision by the Constitutional Court in 1998 to determine that there is a debt to the pensioners. All governments have so far tried to look for ways in which, in an appropriate manner, in accordance with the country's economic situation, the country's financial situation could respond to this great challenge and our commitment and I, on behalf of this government, want to make it very clear. We in the government are aware and have a high degree of responsibility for this problem which is there, which is evident and which we cannot pass. I would also like to thank our partners and the Pensioners' and MPs' parties as well as all the other associations who are, who are with us in the discussion on the resolution of this topic. Since there is no way to make cash, the cash pays the debt either by way of a delay of about 10, 15, 20 years, we have come to a common solution to establish it by calling it a return fund or a pension fund, or whatever its name is in accordance with the law that will be considered and adopted in the Assembly, we have come to a solution, potentially possible for the government and our partners to mean shares and good shares, and also those companies that you mentioned, passed part of it, not all but part of that fund from which it would then be alimated to each pensioner, and then each of those shares could then be transferred to the first succession order. So we're still talking about it, we're negotiating. It seems to us that it's the only possible way to get out of this difficult problem. We could do something that some of us had done before, close our eyes or find some parading, meta-determination, but that wouldn't be right. In this regard, despite the fact that we are really in a difficult situation in financial terms as a state, we want to find a solution through the establishment of a fund. What stock will be in the fund? Whether there will be some real estate in that fund so that this fund can work with these properties, that if it has a good management that this fund can certainly be one of the stronger, perhaps the strongest funds in Croatia, it is certainly a good perspective of such a solution. At this point I can tell you that we are at the end of negotiations with the pensioners about it. I hope this week we finish negotiations, that they will, and that this proposal will go to the government's session.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u15874	Honorable representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u15875	Thank you, Mr. President. I understand the government and I agree with you in full. It's an extremely big problem. No one has received a mandate for the bankruptcy of this country or your government in one term to pay for it and so on. However, the IDS suggests that the debt be returned through bonds. Why? If the praises are mentioned, then there is no concern that the state will keep them to itself, sell them, maybe earn them and service the bonds. So shares sell to pay back what's safe. And these are government bonds.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u15876	Thank you. Honored representative Marin Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u15877	Thank you, Mr. President, a question for the Prime Minister. Mr. Prime Minister Split and Zagreb are not only connected along the highway, but also here are some police developments. In these days, the head of police administration in Split announced the shift of as many as 42 commissioners, both inspectors and according to newspaper writing, intend to replace some of them with people against whom criminal charges were filed. Who are involved in the smuggling of high-priced cars, tax fraud and customs administrations and so on. We heard just before my colleague asked about the employment of police officer Sojic accused of tax evasion. According to the newspaper, the head of Zagreb's police constitution, Mr. Schulc, against him, was conducted a tight procedure due to the two changes in the accident he had in the official cars and which he tried to cover up. At the same time, we have data on the crime boom in Croatia. The increase in homicides is 150% in relation to the same time last year, organised crime by 32%, kidnapping by 40%, and so on and so on. Mr. Prime Minister, however you're interpreting this deviation from your rhetoric that only the criteria of ability and knowledge will apply to employment. This points to a lot of rematch I'm not going to go in from whether it's political, personal, related and what kind of person it is, but you see what the situation is now with criminal. Do you think that this, or do you think, has anything to do with this way of changing people and setting people up like this? Does it have anything to do with the crime in Croatia? And how to put it I say once again in relation to your rhetoric of this problem. And as for the city of Split, we could talk about what was happening both in the state administration and in the tax administration, I still expect Mr. Shuker's written reply to customs, hospital and so on.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u15878	Prime Minister Dr Ivo Sanader.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u15879	Here's my direct answer, Mr. Representative, to the criminal record of what's going on with these shifts. That's exactly the reason for these shifts. That's exactly the reason for these shifts. Because if we left those people, yeah, because if we left those people you're talking about, that trend would probably go on. And since we want to stop him, then the Asians have to put up capable people, people who are willing to catch up with these problems are okay with you and that I also claim to be a trend that we have to stop. One way is to put capable men, not by grandmother or uncles, like you said. Not by any similarity, but by truly capable people to stop this trend you're talking about.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u15880	Representative Marin Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u15881	I am amazed and I am glad that the Croatian public has heard this that it is good to hire people against whom criminal charges have been filed. Who were doing tax evasion in the police, in the most important state services. That's right. And I want to just say that during the period that those shifts took place, that there was this increase in crime, and Mr. Sanader killed himself, and you announced rematchism in all areas of society.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u15882	Dear Representative Bozidar Pankretic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u15883	Mr. President of the Parliament, Prime Minister, esteemed ministers, colleagues and colleagues. I refer my question to Mr. Prime Minister. Mr. Prime Minister, so far, no move has significantly violated your authority and your government. As events related to the privatisation of the company Belje Darda. The government has now annulled its decision and in the meantime, employees of the Croatian Privatisation Fodna were called civil rats, because they acted exactly as the government decided. This shows that there is someone stronger than the prime minister, and that the authority of the prime minister has been questioned. But since this someone is a representative in the Croatian Parliament, it would be at least good to conclude in a joke that the Parliament has come to its own, and that we will no longer be marginalized by the Government. However, the recipes offered and solutions are unfortunately familiar to us, and I will remind you, for example, of the successful resolution of Valpoov. The question, Mr. President, let me finish you will have the chance, is whether the privatisation process has been halted due to the interest of individuals who want through the auction and its ownership to have the status of local sheriffs, and thus to destroy the authority of the government and you personally. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u15884	Prime Minister Dr Ivo Sander.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u15885	Dear Mr. Representative, we announced the tender and withdrew because of the fact that in the meantime there was a change in ownership structure, 7% of the shares owned by small shareholders, they sold to the state and the state had to withdraw the tender and now a new one is being announced. It's about White. When it comes to Pic Vrbovec, then it should also be said that Belje and Vrbovac, the Supervisory Board of the Pika Vrbovac and former chairman of the Supervisory Board Tomislav Ledic, former Deputy Minister Pankretic, signed a management contract with Adria Management in accordance with which, by May of this year, the three-member administration and then only the chairman of the administration is paid 80 thousand dollars a month to the chairman. The three-member administration of Pica Vrbovec nets $80,000 per month. It was signed by your chairman of the Supervisory Board, Tomislav Ledic, former deputy minister. In addition to this fee, the contract defined a fee for the success of the individual phase of the Pica consolidation, in the range listen to this, from 100 thousand to half a million dollars for the implementation of a certain phase of consolidation. And that co-solidation was supposed to be nothing more than implementing the government's technical decisions. Therefore, the contract was novoed on October 8, 2002, and the contract was signed by Bojan Bevc, the management president of Pika Vrbovac, with Adria Management, so the company in which he was employed and hired in Pika Vrovec to do the management work in a simplified manner, he signed the ungvoor with himself. And that's why ladies and gentlemen, it's time to end these kinds of jobs where taxpayers' money is being robbed. Because it pays someone 80,000 first to the three-member administration, and then only Bevac 80,000 dollars. And a fee for the implementation of a phase of consolidation ranging from $100,000 to half a million dollars, please. This is embarrassing. We'll keep the public up to date. And we will bring, we will bring order to both Vrbovac and Belje.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u15886	Dear Representative Bozidar Pankretic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u15887	Mr. President, the parliament's question was not PIK Vrbovac, but when Mr. Prime Minister started answering that question, I will remind him, and I think HDZ members remember well who robbed PIK Vrbovac. This salary is 0.1% of what was stolen in PIK Vrbovac and brought to those billions and 100 million dubiosis, and now it's trying to transfer to that process in that part. Please gentlemen check, we've left you a PIC Vrbovec ready to privatize. It is not responsible whether it is privatised but trying to answer in a different way. Can I finish? I can only say that I am still concerned about the authority of the prime minister and his government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u15888	Honorable representative William Herman.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u15889	Mr. Prime Minister, ministers, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. There are more competitions related to Slavonia and Baranja, the Agency for Food, the PIC Belje tender, some other competitions, and it could actually be concluded this way, that there is no good coordination with either the Croatian Privatisation Fund or there is no good coordination with the local HDZ organisation, or it is possible to conclude both. This affects the efficiency of the government, the work of the government's efficiency, but this affects the direct fate and quality of life in Slavonia and Baranja. But Mr. Prime Minister a question for you. This is just one back-up. And here comes a statement from one of the State Secretarys of the Ministry of Science. Croatia should have one university. Is this a new project that will be annulled by the University of Josip Julius Strossmayer in Osijek, whether any other universities will be annulled, whether in this way Slavonia and Baranja will lose an important part of their identity, the opportunity for their credible regional development. I'm not going to say that it's about possible grizzling, I'm not going to say that it's about another extraction in one way or another, of any resources, of any financial resources from Slavonia and Baranja, but I'm going to ask you to answer clearly whether there will be suspensions or there will be no suspensions, and how do you think you co-ordinate all the way to the local organisation of the HDZ work of the government, and to achieve the desired efficiency.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u15890	Prime Minister Dr. Ivo Sanader.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u15891	Well, first of all, Mr. Representative, the very fact that on my proposal and the proposal of the Government, but also the initiative should also be told the University of Osijek and Osijek that we have changed the Food Act in which we have changed the location and headquarters of the Food Agency, that we have transferred it to Osijek says the best orientation of this government and that philosophy that we are constantly promoting that Croatia is not strong Zagreb, but that Croatia is strong just as strong as these countys are, the border counties that have suffered the most in the war. So I don't see any reason for your question. It may be rhetorical nature and I welcome it, because you are a good retor if I may allow myself that remark, but surely, that after the fact that this government, and the Council, on a proposal from the Government, has ordered that the Food Agency headquarters be in Osijek and not in Zagreb and that we have changed the law, that I do not see any reason or justification for your question which is absolutely absurd that we will change the status of the university or abolish it. The university stays, even more. Mr. Cain called earlier, so I'll say we're going to set up a university in Pula. So our orientation is not one university in Zagreb, not centralisation, reverse decentralisation of several universities and the transfer of those state institutions that do not have to be in Zagreb, to other counties. And when it comes to the competition, I'll just say one thing. There was a tender for the temporary director because it was in accordance with the law, which carried out the registration of the Food Agency, and now the competition for the regular director is opening, so no longer for the temporary one, because it was only the duty of the temporary director to register the Food Agency, now there is a normal competition for the director. I suggest that it is certain that in Osijek, I am convinced that in Osijek, Baranja, there are professional staff for such a place that no one should come from Zagreb, but let the most capable people report to the competition, let the professional people report, let those who are able not only to come from the profession but also to report and who are able to run one such agency, and in cooperation with you and with local self-government choose a certain institution, choose the best man for the Director of Food Agency.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u15892	Representative William Herman.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u15893	Mr. Prime Minister, I will not comment on whether this question is necessary or not. That's how it works, I don't agree with your question about it. But my question was focused on something tenth completely. What kind of coordination is that? Please, what kind of coordination is that if the Secretary of State of the Ministry of Science speaks, declares, officially declares that he is going to the project of a university, that's what this is about. And that's why, since it always goes if you're satisfied, you're not satisfied, now I can say never more satisfied in life. What do I do? Mr. Prime Minister, you just didn't answer my question.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u15894	Dear Representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u15895	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President of the Croatian Government, respected members of the government. My question concerns the project of building the Peljesac-Komarna bridge, Peljesac-Klek. Namely, residents of the Croatian south, in particular in Dubrovnik-Neretva County, welcomed the announcement of the construction of this really important project not only in the transport sense but in the economic sense, because it will indeed mean the development of economic activity in these areas that have been really traffic-insulated, not only to mention how difficult it is to get to the island of Lastov either so far and what it will mean in the future exactly this project, and especially after the explanation of the Prime Minister, Mr Sanader, that this project will work independently on the Zagreb-Split-Dubrovnik highway. So I ask Minister Calmet to say at what stage this construction project is and actually when concrete construction will be able to begin.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u15896	Minister of Bozidar Kalmeta.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u15897	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Representative, gentlemen of the House of Representatives and MPs. Already at the beginning of the year, as the public has already said, Croatian roads have been ordered by the Government to access all necessary works and shops to access the construction of this very important bridge that connects the Kopno and Pelješac. So far, the following actions have been made: The environmental impact study is over. An application for a local authorisation has been submitted and a local authorisation should be issued at 9 months and there will be no reason not to issue it. So far they've been made... so-called. the methods of testing and research are now ahead of the contract and the beginning of the work on the test of the wells at the bottom of the sea from where it should be, i.e. the bridge that would connect the mainland and Pelješac and will then be ordered a clear basic and main project which should be completed at the beginning of the year, followed by a clear tender for construction, tender procedures. As far as preparation is concerned, and all actions for the start of construction will be no problem with the accession and construction of this significant project next year. Whether it will now be February or 4th month, it is difficult for me to speak at this time, but in any case next year everything will be ready to start building this very important infrastructure facility.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u15898	Mr. Representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u15899	So I can say that I am more than happy with your answer and I hope that this construction will really begin as you have announced. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u15900	Honorable representative of Ante Markov.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u15901	Your Honor, Mr. President, the question is for Minister Calmett. Neither is the fact that the undermining of the tourist season is evident with very uncertain tendencies, and that last year's positive trend of Croatia, which was named hit destination, unfortunately failed to preserve. Nor did our direct competition, Italy, Greece and Turkey yet learn lessons from last year's fiasco, and it used these lessons in a way that under the conditions of stagnation and recession in its countries it took steps to stimulate its own citizens to stay in their country and to fly in their country. All this is certainly bad, but the worst or the worst is the fact that the effects or effects of Croatian tourism are becoming less and less alive in Croatia. How and why? Croatian tourism is spending less and less on Croatian food. Croatian hotels and Croatian facilities when building or reconstructing less and less or by no means installing domestic products or domestic equipment. However, as a state body, HABOR provides funds for imported food, goods and equipment. Of course, at the expense of taxpayers. And the question is, what are we? A market or a market for selling other people's products or something else. My question is, what does the Croatian Government, regardless of what the planning and strategy of Croatian tourism is doing today for next season, intend to do to save what can be saved under these conditions and circumstances? But also how he plans to change these unfavourable relationships in the consumption of domestic goods and products we face. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u15902	Minister of Bozidar Kalmeta.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u15903	Thank you, Mr. President, Mr. Representative. I first have to say that in the first six months of this year, when it comes to arrivals and nights, we don't have a boost in tourism. We had, we had a 6th month where there was an incursion compared to the 6th month of last year, which was the best tourist year since the war and on here, last year, and for the first 6 months of this year we have, when it comes to nights, we have the same number as last year. And when it comes to arrivals, we have several percent more than last year. We have a major tourist season ahead of us, only to follow and follow further, clearly, a struggle for every guest. So what will be the result, we can't talk right now, but in any case we expect a level last year. When it comes to the measures being taken, it is true that in Western European countries there is a recession and that large tourism broadcasting countries, for example, such as Germany, have a whole series of measures to keep their citizens from spending their vacation in Germany, for example whether or not to go out. Because Germany, in Germany on vacation annually, goes beyond the borders of about 60 million Germans and these measures they are doing, mainly on the promotion of their own tourism and tourism products in the last few years, have achieved that even 4.5 million per year falls to the number of Germans who go outside but remain, but remains clearly in Germany. We'll think about it. Croatia is not, clearly, an emission country, but a receptive country. It comes to us, last year there were 7 and a half million foreign guests and a million domestic guests. It is of course our interest that our Croats too, tourists stay in Croatia and come to the sea, I don't know or where they are going, but that they are going out. We will prepare for next year in any case a series of measures to encourage, how to encourage our man to use his vacation as much as possible in Croatia without going out. And not only him, but also when it comes to excursions, when it comes to retirement trips, etc., etc. In the next year, we will prepare a package of measures and here I agree with you that we need to do something about it. When it comes to domestic product and Croatian tourism, I agree with you. We are, I've held one meeting, I don't know somewhere in the spring, with all the hotelers who own most of the state. It is in this sense that a Croatian product is used, rather than used, to use a clearly imported product. However, we have a large number of hotels that are either private or private. Of course we can't influence them. That's one thing. Because they will go clearly after profit and will seek a product that is cheaper for them and they are less interested, unfortunately, clearly whether it is a Croatian product or not. When it comes to hotelers who are mostly state-owned, then I said before, we held one meeting and a whole series of contacts on the subject. However, there is another problem. The problem is the Public Procurement Act which binds them to certain procedures where it is always clear quality is not a priority but a price. It is a particular problem that we are also considering how to change and change, and for the purpose and purpose clearly that Croatian product through Croatian tourism is actually exported because it is the way, because it is the simplest way of exporting Croatian products.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u15904	Thank you. Agent Ante Markov.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u15905	Thank you very much. Let me just say one illustration. Croatia has 870 thousand beds or accommodation units in total today, from the hotel, therefore, campsites, private accommodation. At this point there's a lot somewhere a little more than a third. So the total potential can't be measured purely statistically because the statistics deviate from the amount we have every year. That's one thing. Another thing about what Minister Calemta said, I would pray in writing that I get one such summary of these answers, and he would also inform the public that we will present one project which I am sure Minister Kalmeta will also support, about the effects of tourism on the overall economy that should be modelled by Spain, Greece and Italy, which all have such solutions exactly solve the key thing, which is that tourism is in the interest of the Croatian economy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u15906	Honorable representative of Alenko Kosisa Chichin-Shain.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u15907	Thank you. The question is referred to the Prime Minister, or the Honorable Mr. Prime Minister, we ask you to answer to me and the lecture I represent what the Government intends to do regarding the extremely difficult, you might say, alarming economic situation in the City of Sisak with a special emphasis on the business of the Sisak Zeljezare, which is in a narrow sense today employs a thousand 623 employees. But, of course, other business entities that are directly or indirectly linked to the operation of this hardware store. That's where I primarily think of Herbos, the Pannonia Hotel, the remont "Caprak" which employs 230 employees and shiporemont, all the companies that are in bankruptcy today. For a long time among the citizens of Sisak, there has been depression and unrest in fear of closing a certain number of jobs in the ironworks themselves. As I prepared this question, I learned in the context of the subject of further strategic business of the company that, some time ago, the director, i.e. the Mecelj administration, had made a request to the Government for the benefits of paying for energy, or electricity and gas, to address the problem of exporting waste iron used in its production, and to regulate imports of pipe products. Confirmation that it is obviously a matter of some difficulty in talking to employees, I have learned about the drastic reduction of orders, the partial sale of the material substance, I am talking about some noble and semi-noble legures, and what is directly due to the speculation of leaving the company director from the family from the town of Sisak, the beginning of the 6th month of this year. One of the obligations of the buy-in contract is the retention of all employees for five years, i.e. the buyer has thus made a guarantee of 3.6m euros, but of course that is not enough for all the needs of all employees. The problem is also potentiated by the expansion of the construction industry in China.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u15908	My colleagues, please formulate the question because your time is up.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u15909	Here, I'll just have one more sentence. At the last session of the city council, the topic was Željezara Sisak and the economy of the city of Sisak which, according to my knowledge... The government is holding management in Sisak one of its next sessions. Once again, I kindly ask you to present to us all the concrete measures that the Government will take to create a framework for security and revitalisation of economic space with an emphasis on Zelezar Sisak, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u15910	The Prime Minister Dr. Ivo Sanader.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u15911	Mr. President, Madam Representative. The Sisak Ironworks, as you have said, have slightly less than 1700 employees but there are 300 more working and repairing co-operatives, etc. so that the connection to the iron is even greater than your number that you have displayed. Therefore, we are aware of the role that Željezara Sisak plays in both Sisak and Sisak and Sisak County, and the government is taking over several meetings with me personally and with the Minister of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship, Mr Vukelic, to see in which way we first offer two goals. The first is to keep the number of employees at the level that is there not to reduce the number of employees that is the first and primary goal and for the sake of social peace and for the prosperity of Sisak and Sisak-Moslavina County. And the second goal is, to achieve this first one we need to do this second one, which is to allow them to become export competitive. I want to convince you from this pay phone here that the government has done everything possible but making sure that we are both heading towards and towards the European Union, that by 18 June and we are an official candidate for the European Union and that we must also take care of some legality in the competition. That is why there is a competition agency that takes care of it and is certain that the European Commission will take care of it. However, the Government is doing everything in the context and those elements that we must never forget about, because the competition is especially in the steel sector very precisely regulated in the European legislation we must take care of, may not have warned you about it but we must take care of it, we are still taking a number of measures, I would not have talked about the details here, but I agree completely with you that the key is to keep it, and I am glad that it is... that it came here because it was privatised by Željezar, which was done at the time of the last government, my government continues with this, we want to give them support and to enable them to really work with the goal of becoming a good export company but also to realize what we have said and it is not to reduce the number of employees.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u15912	Honorable representative of Alenka Kosisa Chichin-Shain.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u15913	I thank you for your response that I would kindly ask you if we could take these concite measures which I actually asked to write in writing, tax and in writing so that I could address them with my elaborate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u15914	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, 20 questions have been answered, 19 still remain, setting a break until 12 o'clock, please have the members of the government in their seats at 12 o'clock. It is up to the respected representative Zeljka Antunovic. Ladies and gentlemen, let's continue to ask questions of counsel. Dear representative Željka Antunović.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u15916	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, I am referring the question to the Prime Minister. I, like some people here, have been interested in the issue of economic and economic development. In fact, the economy of Slavonia and Baranja is in a difficult position and many economic operators barely survive. With a war affecting such a situation, the economy affected both the transformation and privatisation of the period from 2000 to 2000. The audit has identified the illegalities of which few, few of which will likely be able to sanction in court because much has fallen into old age. I therefore hold extremely important that we learn from mistakes and that future privatisations are carried out by well-known adopted and verified models to be conducted publicly, to be available to all subjects and, above all, to prevent the pressures of politicians against entrepreneurs, who have nothing to do with the interests of neither the development of the economy nor the privatisation, and in this particular case, because I am talking about Slavonia and Baranja with the inhabitants of the area. Slavonian-Baranian businessmen still have nightmares when they remember what some politicians used to do to them in an effort to hand over companies to those over whom they will rule not only in the region, but also in workers. The latest case of White privatisation points to the danger of the old practice being revived. In just a day and a half, the government also called for the intervention of Branimir Glavas to cancel the tender for the privatisation of Belje. Your argument on the reason for the annulment of Mr. President, the privatisation bid differs from that given at the Osijek-Baranja County Assembly the other day. It said that the tender had been cancelled because some politicians had failed to comply with the requirements.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u15917	My colleagues, formulate the question, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u15918	That's why I'm asking you. Do you support Mr. Sanader to be dictated by politicians by feeding them to his friends and will you punish officials on the highway this time as well as on behalf of the government's incompetence?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u15919	Prime Minister, Dr. Ivo Sanader.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u15920	Madam MPs. I will turn your findings back into a true finding, precisely because of the government's ability and because of our responsibility, we have replaced those who are not doing a good job. Because if we'd done something different, then we'd be irresponsible and incompetent. It's precisely because the government is capable, because the government is responsible, and those radical moves that are necessary, so when someone doesn't do their job, they need to be replaced. And that's what we're going to insist on. When it comes to the privatisation of White. Then it should be said that we withdrew the tender after a day and a half, because of the fact that in the meantime there was a change in ownership structure and no one's intervention. What anyone said at the County Assembly of Osijek-Baranja County, I don't even know, and I'm not interested, because I know what reasons led the Government and the Privatisation Fund to bid a change. In fact, the government of the state became after that change, after selling small shareholders of 7% owners for even more than it had by 7%. And that's why the formal changes in the contest, the competition goes back with new ownership structures. Therefore, I reject the determined, energetically every pomia so that anyone can intervene. The competition will be transparent, the competition will be in line with all the positive laws of the Republic of Croatia and will win the competition by the highest bidder.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u15921	Željka Antunović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u15922	Well, I'm not happy with the answer, because it's unclear to me, and that's why I'm asking you that all of this regarding the Whites is that you tried to say precisely in writing here. And I can't agree in any way that it's irrelevant that the mayor of Osijek-Baranja spoke, and he was talking about exactly what I said, he's not only the mayor, but he's also an influential politician of the ruling party and obviously it would be good to agree in the future.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u15923	Honorable representative Mato Raven.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u15924	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Prime Minister, distinguished members of the government, colleagues and colleagues. I'm giving the question to the prime minister, and it's about counter-war defence. In recent times, unfortunately, the top topic is almost all of northwestern and eastern Croatia's defence against the beating and the huge damage suffered by citizens of the economy, especially agriculture, and is caused by the lack of a complete system of defence against the fight, since your will is not subject to the law. As is known in the state budget, despite our efforts and warnings from the opposition, but also the warnings coming from the county are not provided the necessary means for this purpose from operational use, all the anti-urban missiles have been withdrawn, so the damages have simply been inevitable. Only the final amount was and is still questionable. ... Mr. President. [[/the speaker doesn't understand.]] Can I go on? I think someone's in the way. Okay. According to the data collected so far, the damage caused by the fight this year in Međimurska, Varazdinska, Vukovar-Srijem and Brod-Posavina County amounted to over 100 million kuna. In the belief that these great damages, you will be convinced that these great damages will be sufficient to ensure in the budget rebalancing the necessary means to defend against the fight throughout the territory of the Republic of Croatia, that you are implementing the law, therefore, and of course preventing it. I ask you, Prime Minister, how, in what amount and when you and our government plan for citizens.. The huge damage you're responsible for because the system didn't work? [[/the speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u15925	Prime Minister, Dr. Ivo Sanader.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u15926	Your Honor, Mr. Representative. At one of its previous sessions, the Croatian government even took four measures to defend the fight in the past or the past. First of all, it should be said here that in Croatia there is still a great need to defend against the fight but which is not resolved on a professional level. So, we've put in charge of the experts, and we've put in charge of the ministry to declare within 60 days that the profession is benefiting from the rockets, because the information is contradictory. As you know, I know that only a few countries in Europe, and the Western Europe is almost nothing, the European Union is hardly using rockets. There are several solutions from the nets on. We've given a deadline of 60 days to make the profession known about the use of missiles. Second, to give existing rockets to be checked, for they are not, in all likelihood, correct. It means that they are being tested, and if they are being repaired, and I think that, in a very short time, they will be improved to keep using rockets to be used until the final assessment of the situation and to the proposal that this expert group will make within 60 days. And we have also set a two-month deadline for next year so that we can for the budget give the proposal for next year how to organise the defence against the fight. Therefore, these are the four measures that we brought to the last cabinet session but I would ask both you and everyone in Croatia. We know how important this is for our farmers, we are aware that the Croatian agrarian has terrible damage to the fight, and I think we should think about it all together and Minister Cobankovic and all of us in the government are seriously thinking that in one dialogue and with Croatian peasants, Croatian agriculture we may find the best possible way for which the leading countries of the European Union are already going, which is insurance. I know it's something new, I know it's something you'll probably still have to discuss with the insurance companies. Whether or not they are ready for insurance but I am sure it is the only effective way because that is what makes the European Union countries that it is the only effective way to defend against the fight. Until then, as I said, go these four measures. One of these is to investigate and repair if the missiles aren't correct to use them.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u15927	Representative Mato Raven.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u15928	Thank you very much. I was pretty sure we hadn't heard from each other, but thank you, Mr. Prime Minister, you answered a question I didn't ask but it's good to hear. It's a counterwarrant defense. So I'll do it again. The question was also when, in what amount and how do you plan to compensate for the damage caused by the anti-struction defense. Well, here, please a written answer in that sense.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u15929	Dear Representative Tomislav Culjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u15930	Mr. President, the President of the Croatian Government, Mr. Ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs! I have a question for Mr. Peter Cobankovic's agriculture minister. In fact, these days in the media have caused a lot of attention to the announcement of the possibility of building another cafilarium in Slavonia. As far as I know from the stories of the Kafilarium so far, the Kafilarium in Sesvetski Kralje has the capacity to handle animal waste for all of Croatia. Is there a need to build new kafilariums, whether they will be built or there is another solution and a need for a solution to animal waste disposal in Croatia? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u15931	Minister Cobankovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u15932	Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Your Honor! Let me give you a quick answer. I and the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy are well-known activities that are being led to the construction of a modern and modern Californiary at a specific location in Croatia. Normally, the interested investors of Slavonia and Slavonia where the high concentration of cattle and livestock funds is one of the interesting areas and on this particular topic was held one meeting in the Chamber of Commerce, Osijek County Chamber, where they were representatives of the meat and farming industry with interested investors, were representatives of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy, and I was free to say about the need for the establishment of one more winery because the fact that Croatia today has only one casery. It is also a fact that because of certain costs, distances, distances, and when we analyze that practically all dead cattle and waste of livestock, unfortunately we can say that with great certainty, unfortunately it does not end up in the cafeteria, but unfortunately ends up in caves, canals and so on reflecting on environmental pollution again. It is precisely for the reasons of different approaches and different ways of solving but also extracting a certain I would say also the benefits of this activity and not only the production of meat of bone flour for which the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and the Water Economy singles out a circus of 5 million kuna for its care. It is known that certain diseases resulting from the use of bone meal meat, bonemeal meat is prohibited in the use of animal nutrition, and right now we have a lot of problems in solving bonemeal meat, and therefore a circus of 5-5.5 million kuna from the state budget in the positions of the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry. In this way and here, a different model was presented where practically the cafilarium would have its investors where they would find their economic interest and where they would produce different products that could be produced I hold that it is justified and that this is one of the good ways to solve for us, I am free to say, the big problem we are facing.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u15933	Representative Tomislav Culjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u15934	Well, Slavonia's welcome every investment, so here's how we expect this one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u15935	Dear representative Ivana Sučec-Tracostanec.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u15936	Thank you, dear President of the Croatian Parliament! The harvest is at the door and the question of buying and keeping the wheat is certainly of interest to all our farmers and therefore I refer my question to the Minister of Agriculture, Mr Peter Cobanković. We all still remember the problems of the past few years and the affairs of keeping wheat in silos, stock stores and everything else, so my question to you, Mr. Minister, is. How are you going to solve the purchase and storage of wheat in silos this year? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u15937	Minister of Agriculture and Forestry Petar Cobankovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u15938	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor, Madam Representative! I think this is a current question anyway. The Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy, together with the Ministry of Economy and Goods, introduced, I am free to say, certain news related to the insurance of products in silos or better said specific wheat, and we are also prepared to guarantee that goods owned by goods will be well-preserved and well-preserved. I am free to say that control will be introduced, that we will find mechanisms and prevent a conditional charge or exemption of goods from those who guard goods that are not their goods. And why is that? They get an adequate fee on one side. On the other hand, you know that these days will also go into the application of the Law on special conditions of placing flour, that all technical, free to say, activities to implement this law have been decided, that a rule has been adopted, that the printing of stamps is completed, that line processors and all producers who use both wheat and flour and bakers have had to make a list of supplies and that we have a complete situation recorded. I believe that it is also with much better, better quality control of the goods with which the goods are held by one of the modes and models that we will monitor that you no longer come to the confirmation of these goods stored in certain spaces.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u15939	Representative Ivana Sučec-Tracostanec.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u15940	I thank Mr. Secretary for his reply. I am pleased and expect, of course, that a trail of this introduction of order on the market will introduce order in the further period and on the market in cattle, meat and meat processing and in other areas where until the end it has not been introduced. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u15941	Dear Representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u15942	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam Vice President and Vice President, dear ministers, colleagues and colleagues. My question will be addressed to the Croatian Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of the Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity. Madam Minister, I ask you, given the frequent references that there is no Z of the Law on the Rights of Croatian Defence, I ask you how far it has come with the bill of law and when it will be in the parliamentary procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u15943	Deputy Prime Minister, Minister Jadranka Kosor, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u15944	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Your Honor. Well, it's come to an end, the law is over, so not that there's no Z, but there's both Z and A and K and O and N! He's got everything! The law's been prepared, the law's been done since February of this year. The task force was attended by representatives of the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of Defence, representatives of the Ministry of Association, for the first time, and, of course, excellent lawyers who had the task of preparing a law that would stand firm on their feet about sending. It will go to the budget, of course, but given the economic and social situation in the country. Since the Law is over, we have decided to work, for a brief debate on this draft bill, of course and narrow the cabinet with the bill proposal because it is a great law, an extremely important law. He has to be familiar with the prime minister, and after that, I guess, next week we'd be meeting with the representatives of the associations. Therefore, the coordination and HVIDRE and the Association of Widows. And gave them the law. After that, the Law goes into debate among interested, therefore, Croatian defenders and members of their families. And I expect that in the fall the law will be in the parliamentary procedure. And I believe that this will be to the extent that the law is drawn, I say that it will really stand on firm feet, which I suppose all MPs in this House will vote for, which would, of course, guarantee that after the next elections, the law will not change and that Croatian defenders and members of their families will finally know what their rights are and what they can count on for the next 10, 15 years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u15945	Thank you. Representative Josip Djapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u15946	I thank you, and I'm happy with the answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u15947	Dear Representative Marian Bekavac.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u15948	I would like to thank Mr. President, dear ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs. I refer my question to the Minister of the Sea, Tourism, Transport and Development, Mr Bozidar Kalmeti. Namely, the D-60 State Road on the Lovrec-Imotski 25 km long requires an emergency construction because its existing performance does not satisfy the average traffic moving around 6200 vehicles per day. And in whose structure a large number of cargo vehicles. A large number of traffic accidents have also been reported on this road. The width of the road is 6 meters, so it is necessary to perform the projection and urgently access the reconstruction on the entire Lovrić-Imotski section. In this section towards Split as the main gravitating centre other than the people of the Imot region traffic and a large number of vehicles from the neighbouring Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina as well as transit traffic due to customs crossings in Vinjeni Donji and Vinjeni Gornji. So I'm asking Mr. Calemta a question. What and when will the Ministry of the Sea, Tourism, Transport and Development and the Croatian Roads do to resolve the reconstruction of the state road D-60. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u15949	Minister of Bozidar Kalmeta.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u15950	Mr. President, Mr. Representative, this state road is included in the new programme of "meterment" of Croatian roads for the following year and it will be in full length and it is 25 km from me, right, 25 km from it will be reconstructed throughout the following year.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u15951	Representative Marian Bekavac.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u15952	I thank the minister, and I am pleased with the answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u15953	Dear representative Nevenka Majdenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u15954	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers, colleagues and colleagues. I refer the question to the Minister of Science, Education and Sports Dr. A dear seaman. Dear Mr. Minister, it is not necessary to stress in particular that knowledge is the wealth and greatest competitive force Croatia has. Therefore, I welcome your computer procurement and other computer equipment at preferential prices for students. I'd like to know what kind of echo this initiative has come across. And are you planning other similar activities in approaching information to students and schools?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u15955	State Secretary Janjic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u15956	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, honourable MPs. I can say the following to your question. The precision... And what I'm saying is that it's about the 220 000 students this action applies to. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And the action lasts until the end of this calendar year. The discount on equipment I can get, I can count on a 10% to 43% discount and a 60% discount on education. By July 5th until, when we asked for school data, we got data from 1100 schools, so we're missing data from another 300th of schools, but this data that I'm telling you, it was up to 13 hours, so that number sure is bigger, and we're convinced that it's definitely all arrived now. The action, of course, came up with an extremely good response, but in the first few days we had a lot of calls where parents and students were interested when they could make it happen. I would now take this opportunity to say that Minister Dragan Primorac will send a letter to all students who have the right to obtain computer equipment in which they will clearly be told how they can do it, or where they should report, with which document, and then it will be checked in the database, and this process will be very clear to everyone and will easily realise that wish. What the ministry is doing now is just one of the first steps, I would say, which will go in that direction to reward especially good students, and we certainly count on that when it comes to information education that we will pay special attention to it. Of course, we also do it in the chambers, so all teachers are educated, and if I may say it in a rough word, informational descriptions about the cost of the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, the response is extremely good and we are really very pleased with it. We are convinced that when this action ends, we will be able to give our public information about how the action went, that is, how many of our honourors have acquired computers and how many of them we can count on, possibly in the future. It is not excluded if the response is extremely good that we will continue with such actions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u15957	Representative Nevenka Majdenić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u15958	Thank you, Secretary of State. I'm happy with the answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u15959	Dear Representative Ante Djapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u15960	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the government. The question I wanted to ask the president, but since he's gone, it's likely someone will answer from his associates. Croatia has become a precedent. It would not be bad if these precedents were positive for Croatia, however, we believe that something can be drawn out from these precedents that can have inconceivable negative consequences for Croatia in the future. I don't want to talk about judicial precedents, about the damages ruled by the first-degree court, because the Prime Minister himself said he wasn't commenting on court rulings, so I believe that's the government's view. However, there are some precedents both made by the government or by some precedents that the government does not respond to, which deserve questions. In its settlements, the government decided once to compensate for the damage to individual members, families of Serb civilians killed in the early 1990s, as well as the Levar family. The question is raised, and especially because of the inscriptions that appear to be on the trail, so no, I don't hold the government behind it, but the climate is created that in such a way the state terrorism has been quietly recognised from the beginning of 1990, or that the state is responsible for committing individual crimes, and we all these years oppose to prove that whoever is responsible for individual crimes is responding, in this way the state practically assumes part of the responsibility that we believe can be born into a very dangerous situation. It's already said about the demands of many for damages that taxpayers will again pay. We do not need to talk about the sensitivity of the problem on the other hand and the other precedent that is current, we have a situation where in Croatia a foreign citizen with a Croatian citizen registers certain emissaries or rewards for doing business that is otherwise performed by the State's Attorney's Office and the Croatian Ministry of the Interior...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u15961	Please formulate the question,... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u15962	Yes, so I ask the question is the Government planning on, what does the Government intend to do on this matter, which means that the authorities are doing their job, not that the citizens of Croatia are conducting certain investigations? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u15963	Deputy Prime Minister, Minister Andrija Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u15964	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Your Honor. There were a few questions as far as I could tell.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u15965	For one question only, a representative can ask one question.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u15966	Here I'm going to say, the precedent of the Rabbit family doesn't mean at all, whether the Government's decision to help the Rabbit children implies no legal solution, no political solution whatsoever, but simply one social aid to children who have lost their means of education. That's how we explained it in our decision. So there are no other signs here that could be interpreted differently. As for the damage done to the killed civilians, that was the same question, of course the government has no influence on the court or has the right to comment. I would just say that, of course, if the court so condemns the descendants of Serbian civilians that they will probably also judge the descendants of Croatian civilians killed, and the ratio of 7183 to 162 killed Serbian civilians. I believe that the courts of law and justice will judge it. Therefore, the government does not mean to influence these processes, does not mean to comment on them as regards their legal, legal aspect, but will advocate that social cases are resolved.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u15967	Representative Anto Djapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u15968	Mr. Vice President, I'm not entirely satisfied with your answer, so I'd like an additional written answer on both questions, about both the precedents I've asked. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u15969	Dear Representative Petar Mlinaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u15970	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers, distinguished MPs and MPs. I refer my representative question to the Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy, Petar Cobankovic. By entering the European, European and, Croatia into the European Union, Croatia will commit to the annual production of 50 thousand tonnes of biodiesel. The only one interested in this production so far is the Vukovar “Vupik” which has a elaborate production plan. He's got a Jergay silo capacity of 50,000 tons. The required area for the production of rape oil is 20,000 hectares. Expected yield per hectare of 2 and a half to 3 tons. The required amount of rape for the production of one litre of biodiesel is 3 kilograms of rape oil per litre. In, the expected production of biodiesel 20 thousand tonnes, the expected employment of new jobs is 30 employees and the investment is 14 million kuna. The question is, will the Ministry stand behind this project? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u15971	Minister Petar Cobankovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u15972	Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor, I think this is extremely important and important and one of the topics. The Ministry of Forestry, Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy is intensively working and preparing a programme of biodiesel production. Whether the program will find Vupik or some other company depends again on the companies themselves who express a particular interest. The fact is that in the European Union by 2005 there must be 2% of the share of biofuels in the diesel must mean that Croatia will have one very big need for such energy. Normally I will not talk here about aspects of environmental protection and the need to produce such fuel but I would prefer to say more about aspects related to the aspect of agricultural production. The fact is that we have good conditions, that we have enough surfaces that we can re-use for such production. But I'd also like to point out that when we talk about production, it was a diesel that wasn't just an oily turnip that could be one of the potential raw materials for the production of bio-elevator, that others could be thought about, for example, about soy, but also about the production of bio-fuels from other organics, I'd say matter. But if we were to look only at the payload if the oil tail was used only for bio diesel then I believe that there would be no great interest in neither our producers nor the state could encourage that production so much that it would be, I'm free to say attractive to agricultural producers. I think this has to be seen in a different way. That in the production was diesel one of the by-products in the production, that should make the most of everything that can be used by feed for cattle and the like. So we need to create a whole programme and we will create a program for the development of bio diesel production in the territory of the Republic of Croatia, and then within that programme we will see which of the interested companies and companies will appear and be ready to submit part of that production.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u15973	Representative Petar Mlinarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u15974	Mr. President, I thank Mr. Secretary. I'm happy with the answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u15975	Honorable representative Katarina Fuchek.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u15976	Mr. President, I wanted to ask the question to Mr. Bozi Bishop, but I can see he's gone, so the secretary of state from the ministry will answer me. The need for integration of Croatian cultural values in the overall tourist offer is discussed all the time but is not the fact that these two segments are not sufficiently intertwined in the development of Croatian tourism. I wonder what the position of the Ministry of Culture is, and what is the Ministry of Culture doing to make culture a part of tourism?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u15977	State Secretary at the Ministry of Culture Jadran Antolovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u15978	Mr. President, Your Honor, Madam Representative. We can conclude that at this point cultural resources are really not sufficiently connected and with tourism as we have seen and right from the Totga rsalog The Ministry of Culture in cooperation with the Ministry of the Sea, Tourism, Transport and Development, and also in cooperation with the Croatian tourist community has established an office for cultural tourism in the Croatian tourist community. Which will be the centre of coordination of projects aimed at connecting these two important resources. Or two important segments of the Croatian economy. The Ministry of Culture in its operational programme also gives priority to those projects aimed at creating archaeological parks, then establishing historic roads as panoramic tourist corridors, and strengthening and enriching cultural programs that are thus being stepped up and tourist offer especially along our coast during the tourist season. In order to improve the involvement of professions in the development of cultural tourism, it is these days that the advice for cultural tourism, which is made up of our most prominent experts in this area, will be established.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u15979	She's a representative of Catarian Fuchek.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u15980	Satisfied, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u15981	Deputy Vice-President Djurdja Adlesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u15982	Thank you very much, Mr. President, first of all, I regret to say that the questions cannot be asked either by the Minister of Foreign Affairs or by the Minister for European Integration. But I hope to get an answer. I'm repeating the question already. We can be fully satisfied with the successes in foreign policy when aces open and financially powerful access funds. I would like to ask the question when these funds will open up to the irrevocably entrepreneurs that they do not have to go through the ministries, that is, when local officials will have the opportunity for adequate education, because I sincerely hope that they also educate consultants who can make such projects to pass a complicated procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u15983	Thank you very much. P isan answer. Dear representative Mirjana Brnadić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u15984	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. I'd like to ask the Deputy Prime Minister and the Minister of Health. Mr. Minister, after 15 years of unsuccessful fighting certain categories of blind and undersighted persons to improve their material position. Is there a possibility that in the 2005 budget, funds can be allocated to them. And that, people with total vision loss, get 50% of the average personal income of the Republic of Croatia. And persons with a residual vision of 0.05% 30% of the personal income of the average personal income of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u15985	Deputy Prime Minister Andrija Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u15986	Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor, Madam Representative. This issue requires an accursed financial analysis. Of the about 5,000 people who have these problems with the vision you listed, I think that somewhere around half of them have solved their income on other grounds. Whether they're participants in the Homeland War or they're participants in World War II. And for the rest, it is necessary to determine exactly what is the number, what is the gross sum given your proposal and then see what that means for the next budget. I premise this from the eye to be somewhere between 50 million and 80 million kuna. Plus a minus maybe 10 percent. So we're going to do the exact calculation at the Ministry, and then we're going to propose to the government to see how much can be achieved next year.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u15987	Representative Mirjana Brnadić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u15988	Thank you for your response. And I must point out that completely blind people and persons with a residual vision of 0.05% do not have the possibility of hiring, or very few of them are employed, to live exclusively from the excessive income of the state. YES, they are aware of the financial situation in the country that they are actually very modest and self-secure. And I hope that by finding opportunities to resolve their material status, you will bring a ray of hope into their very difficult daily life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u15989	Dear Representative Perica Bukic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u15990	Mr. President, the honourable members of the Valda, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs. I'm asking the Minister of Economy, Mr. Branko Vukelic. Given the rather difficult situation in the functioning of TLMA Sibenik and we know what this company with its 1700, 1800 employees means for the overall economic situation in Sibenik, I want to know what expectations are and what the government is going to do about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u15991	Minister Branko Vukelic please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u15992	Thank you, Mr. President of the Parliament. Honorable ladies and gentlemen of the council. Dear Representative, I believe that you are familiar and the general public is aware that at its session held in Sibenik, the government has made very important decisions relating to TLM on the granting of debt reprogramming guarantees to raise credit for crafts. What is necessary is the assumption that it could raise the level of production at all, or I'll be even rougher and say that it could be produced in TLM at all. What was run by the government in making these decisions is not only important to TLMA for the city of Sibenik and the Sibenik Knin County, but also that it is a company that is technologically equipped to be able to make quality and good use of and what is a company that has a market for its product. But the fact is that the company is in difficulty and that without one additional injection and support from the government, it is not possible to raise production. And clearly make normal business possible. So, after these decisions, realisation will also follow, which is very important, therefore, to raise this credit for crafts. The talks were held at the ministry with the leadership and chairman of the Supervisory Board and these past days. The indicators are very poor and necessary and necessary to start production and to raise it to an adequate level because this company and last year ended with loss of school and if the plans of management of the company were different, therefore and a far better result was planned for the first six months, so what is necessary is that as soon as these decisions were implemented by the Government and started production. Clear and see also the participation and responsibility of the existing leadership and leadership in this company and the possibility of their or possibly other people who will be able to do with these government decisions and with all that is necessary in the TLMU itself which I would say would bring the company's business to the next year's positive. And so to make it clear and bread I would also tell people's lives, employees at TLMA. It is also important to say that TLMA's leadership is expected and complete than is necessary to do, and that is to restructure the company itself, to get rid of those probs of dubiosis that exist. So I personally believe that after these decisions, the Government needs to draw up and choose a guideline from where to define which of the people who are the programs behind these people, which will guarantee that, with these decisions, the government and the measure that will be taken in the TLMU itself, the company will be brought to a positive business.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u15993	Petty Officer Perica Bukic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u15994	I thank you for this exhaustive presentation, and here we expect that in the very near future it will be realized. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u15995	Honorable representative Miroslav Korenika.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u15996	Thank you very much, Mr. President, colleagues and fellow government members. I was going to ask my question to the Prime Minister, but since he's gone, I'm going to ask him to the vice president in charge of the economy. I'll start with one finding. In each normal and legal state, the contract is sacred and usually either the two sides execute it or end up in court. One part of the units of local self-government signed contracts with the government, i.e. with individual ministries, on the development and construction of infrastructure in their municipalities, or cities. Unfortunately, despite the fact that the Minister of Finance boasted on several occasions and claimed that tax collection was 15-20% better and better than it was in the last period, the Government, or individual ministries, did not fulfil their obligations and did not pay contracts for works already done, and units of local self-government, were municipalities and cities in the area of Varazdinska, Međimurje and Krapina-Zagorje County for which I have data, it was 20 municipalities and cities, where, despite the fact that all documents were properly forwarded, neither had an answer nor the Government fulfilled its contractual financial obligations. Since the units of local self-government with status were either mountain-mounted or have the status of areas of special state concern, I ask the question: What are the reasons and when will the government fulfil its financial obligations? This is especially because, unfortunately, it is mainly about municipalities and cities where HDZ's chiefs are not in power but unfortunately at this time of the state opposition, the reason more to help because this is very difficult for local self-government to work on one side because of the pressure of the contractors who have committed themselves, and on the other hand because these budgets are also insufficient and small. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u15997	Deputy Prime Minister and Minister Andrija Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u15998	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Your Honor, Mr. Representative, this government has executed all the contracts it has signed and concluded with any entity. What you're talking about, this government has neither signed nor received a record of those contracts, nor has it been reserved in the budget in the form of an item. So if you have something we don't know from the contract, and there's still a lot of them, please take them out to include them in the next budget. I will tell you only one large group of such contracts for investment in health care worth believing or not, out of a billion kunas that the ministry has concluded with the counties, and that no procedure in the government has been passed at all, that it is illegal because the ministry cannot finance county institutions in county property, and no funds in the budget have been provided either. We discover such contracts every day new and new, so I would ask you directly to deliver every contract to me personally, if he is in accordance with the law, I will make it worth it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u15999	Representative Miroslav Korenika.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u16000	I have to say that I am not happy with the answer until the end, because if the ministries have signed contracts and they are certified, they exist, they are worth including in the budget to implement contractual obligations. Gentlemen, I've listened to you, but it would still be correct on your part. The fact is that I, too, suggest that Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, on the example of Vice-President Kosor, open the phones to which the mayors and mayors will answer especially because in the ministry officials in charge of such debts, such contracts are not wanted to be answered and contacted by the commissioners. I'd like a written answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u16001	Dear Representative Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u16002	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I've prepared the question for the Prime Minister, but since he's not here, I'd like to refer the question to the Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Hebrang. The Government programme, which was submitted to this Croatian Parliament on 22 December last year and which was adopted, said at point 9.8 above, that this government will establish a new system of financing local and regional self-government by changing tax policy, redistributing income by redistributing income tax and profit by introducing rents and compensations according to local population programmes and projects and introducing a system of direct selection of mayors, mayors and mayors. Since so far in the parliamentary procedure all the proposals that went in this direction, which were submitted by the Croatian People's Party Club, have been rejected, and by local elections it is less than 10 months if it will be in May next year or possibly late April, I ask whether and when the Government of the Republic of Croatia will propose, and the ruling parliamentary commercial coalition accepts the electoral system of direct election of the mayors, mayors and mayors in two electoral circles. Please respond orally immediately.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u16003	Deputy Prime Minister and Minister Andrija Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u16004	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative, as soon as the government makes a decision on this, they'll let you know.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u16005	You'll get the Honorable representative of Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u16006	I've read the statements from the government program, not whether the government will make a decision. I asked when. This is a government program, and I've quoted point 9.8. With this kind of response, Mr. Vice President, you have brought into question the programme that the Croatian Parliament has accepted, so the government has not yet decided on the models of choice. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u16007	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u16008	Thank you very much, the citizens will understand this.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u16009	Dear Representative Ivan Drmic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u16010	Dear Mr. President, the honourable representatives of the government, colleagues and fellow MPs. I would have one question about such a local problem from the environment that I come from, and I would ask Mr Janjic, who is there as a representative of the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports. I should have told you about your information in the introduction that currently in the town of Djakova in the suburban village of Selci should have started to resuscitate a school facility of elementary school and according to the program... which is otherwise an exercise in the management of the Ministry of Transport and Communications, is that Mr. Calmeta's ministry. [[You don't understand.]] You are also likely to know that the other day she came to that construction site, at that old school, to protest the parents of children attending that school. You should also, I went to that school, it's a school, an object of a school over a hundred years old, that before school served as a storage facility for the drying of cereals. So you can think of the state of that building, it's derutable, it's really unquestionable that in such a building you can't teach, it's full of moisture, and I mean, it's my one unequivocal opinion, that this building just isn't in good enough shape to make any adaptation on it. So my opinion coincides with the parents who raised their voice against a recovery of such a building. I also have to say that in that village the current primary school is attended by 250 students, that more than 40 attend preschools, so that school, one elementary school in that village has a future and it is certainly one place that has one white, white development ahead of it, has enough children to work in the future.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u16011	I want you to formulate the question.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u16012	I wonder if it's possible to change that decision and get that place a new school instead of a recovery so far? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u16013	State Secretary, Želimir Janjic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u16014	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Your Honor, this problem is familiar to us and we will start next week in agreement with the ministry mentioned, own a place and see what we can do with them. I know what you'd rather hear from my mouth right now, but I can't answer that. So we as a ministry couldn't influence what would be in CEB's programs. They are determined, but they are always possible permanent changes. This opens up, therefore, the possibility that we can see in direct contact with them what to do and prepare it all for the next financial year. So whether there will be a change within the CEB itself or will be done in some other way, at this point I cannot answer you. But I suggest that after our visit and thank you for telling us ourselves to answer in writing what we have agreed with them and how it will go. I hope we can find the best possible option both parents and their students have. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u16015	Representative Ivan Drmić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u16016	I am pleased with the answer and I am convinced that when you visit that school that you will share the same opinion as me and that we will make this the best solution for the children of that place. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u16017	Dear Representative Milan Meden.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u16018	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers, representatives of the Government, colleagues and colleagues. I'm asking a question for the Ministry of Culture. Since there is no minister, I am asking the Secretary of State, Mr Antolovic. The question is, does Croatia pay for broadcasting by the Law of 3 % of the monthly subscription to the Fund to promote pluralism and diversity of electronic media, and when will the distribution of funds to local electronic media follow? The Media Act, which entered into force in September last year, provides for the establishment of the Fund and the basis of the HRT Act in Article 54. HRT is required to pay 3% of the total funds collected on a monthly basis in the name of the tax. That provision was designed to set the model for developed European countries in order to enable the development of electricity media to be evenly developed.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u16019	State Secretary Jadran Antolovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u16020	Mr. President, Your Honor, Mr. Representative. True, according to the Law on Electronic Media, the Fund for the Encouragement of pluralism and diversity of electronic media as a budgetary fund has been established. This means that an account has been opened and thus enables Croatian broadcasting to fulfil its obligation under the Law on Croatian Television, which means payment of this percentage of the collected fee. However, the Fund's resources are available to the Council for Electronic Media, and this Parliament has recently appointed this Council and for detailed information on funds and availability with the Fund's resources, I would like to suggest that you receive it from the President of the Council.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u16021	Representative Milan Meden.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u16022	I'm happy and I'm going to pass this question to the Media Council. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u16023	Dear Representative Zdenko Antesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u16024	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, esteemed ministers. The issue was intended for Mr. President of the Croatian government, however, since I am not asking him a question from the Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Hebrang. Dear Mr. Hebrang, on the "Let's Reward the Excellents", said the already respected representative Majdenic. Its goal, I think, is to enable excellent students to buy computers and printers at prices from retail to 30% in collaboration with the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports. I warmly welcome and support the action, but if the action is carried out in cooperation with the Ministry of Science, then it means that the Ministry will allocate a certain amount of money to Alimentate the reduced price. This is logical because without financial support, no company in the world is able to deliver equipment at so many reduced prices. The supplier of the equipment has been selected, but the tender for the selection of the supplier of the equipment has not been carried out. Only a short article has been published on the Ministry's website in which one sentence invites interested companies to submit their offers. Offers for what? For what equipment? What configurations, how many equipment, to whom to send an offer, and by which criterion they will be chosen, there is nothing. There are about 330 thousand excellent students in Croatia and it is clear that the profits of this job will be enormous. So I ask, why has no public tender been held for the selection of bidders, and why is work re-scheduled in a completely non-transparent way, or can you say which particular company got the job?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u16025	Deputy Prime Minister, Minister Andrija Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u16026	Mr. President, your honor, Mr. Representative. I don't know the details of the way you're getting it, of course, and you've learned it from the press. We haven't discussed it yet, but when we do, we'll let you know, and make sure it's in accordance with the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u16027	Representative Zdenko Antešić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u16028	Of course I'm not happy with the answer. From this, you can see that the basic procedure for the Public Procurement Act was not respected, so please answer in writing.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u16029	And sugar at the end, the esteemed representative Ivan Kolar.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u16030	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, dear ministers. I've already lost hope of being able to ask the question in general if my colleague beat me to it, but since the minister hasn't answered anything, I repeat the question, so here's an explanation for the Croatian public. Otherwise, we are before the harvest, we all expect to reap the fruits of our work, to invest the money and effort we have invested in sowing, and now to justify economically. And it would be fair, but if we criticized the last government, we said that the sparrows ate grain relations, that the model that was organized by the county was not transparent, that he was not bringing results, and I assure you the opposite, that our peasants were satisfied with that model, that they were getting money, that they weren't negotiating on the road, but they were sitting in the ministry with the previous minister and economy and agriculture forming the price, way of buying out, paying out, the parameters under which it is. I expect the most correct of you now, if there is an answer to us and if anyone listens to it, answer directly. What is the model for this year's purchase of wheat, at which it appreciates, what are the parameters, when it pays, is there a difference in price. You said there was no difference in price. Is that a net price? So there's only one question, what kind of harvest, what model, what way, when the peasants get the money, and you know what parameters you have to say. If you know them, if you don't know, I'm begging you not to say anything else. Because talking around, not going into the middle of things, I don't think there's any need. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u16031	Thank you very much, Mr. President, thank you very much, Mr. Representative. Here, I'll answer very briefly. I'll say what I said by now. There is no fear that all the amounts of wheat will be taken over and bought. So all the wheat will be redeemed, all the wheat will pay off, the price I said was behind which ministry will stand. It is the price of net kuna per kilogram based on quality standards and will be paid within a month to the ransom. As for the model, I think it's past time, we won't call any tenders, we won't nominate any buyers or any exporters. We'll make sure from the state level that the assumptions are made that all the wheat is redeemed. You know the situation that some excess wheat is expected in this year. Similarly, we will find ways and mechanisms, that all surpluses, conditionally said, are all the excesses that are beyond the need for spending in the Republic of Croatia to get out of the market, and in this context the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management and the Ministry of Finance will provide all the assumptions that this way of redemption would be realized. All of this has been well-acquainted by agricultural producers, and I've been on the ground quite a bit these days, and over the weekend, talking to people and I think it's not a problem at all, but for us, it's a much bigger problem of this weather that simply doesn't allow this job to be done. And as for the ransom, we've created assumptions that he's being realized and paid. Neither will the Ministry nor defend to participate in the ransom, or will they nominate and license anyone to be an exclusive buyer. To simplify, we will ensure that the supply directory of all the wheat offered on the buy market under these terms, so there is no need for competition, no need or any additional activities, and that is not the problem at all, the procedure is known, the accommodation, we provided and consulted with silos, and the silos are ready to take over all the wheat, so everything will be solved and implemented and paid, which is particularly important to highlight.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u16032	Dear Representative Ivan Kolar, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u16033	Thank you very much, Minister. I've been in this business too long to believe what you said, because housing and handing over wheat is out of the question if it's not all said. Just storage you zente analysis that costs accommodation per month 6 lip and at the end..., what a kuna, where when, I want and want to sell stock reserves with you but I won't sell to those where mice deliver grain and you remember, that it wouldn't be fair to the businesses where the wheat is gone. That's why I express my dissatisfaction because I don't think the producers have agreed to the kuna, you know, this is arbitration and administrative pricing, and it would be fairer to agree on the price and that it agrees because it's been over and this year it's not the same. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u16034	Thank you very much. In accordance with Article 189 of the Treaty on the Rules of Procedure, I would like to inform you that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has not delivered an answer to Slavko Linić's parliamentary question within the prescribed deadline and I would like to ask that the reply be delivered within 8 days. Secondly, a session of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget was convened at 13:30 today in Hall 202. Second floor, Committee on Economy, Development and Reconstruction at 14:00 in the Hall Center and please? And resuming session 11. Committee for Local and Regional (regional) Self-Government at 3 p.m. in Hall 149. 1. Kat. Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs are currently finished in the morning, resuming the session at 15 o'clock according to the established order of the agenda. Ladies and gentlemen, the Parliament is continuing to work. 1. Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Treaty on the Third Amendment of the Treaty on the Establishment and Labour of the International Centre for the Development of Migration Policy (ICMDP), with the Final Proposal of the Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading of P.Z. No. 117. The Proposer of the Law is the Government. When establishing the agenda, we accepted the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of this law. You received the proposal by mail. The emergency procedure unites the first and second readings of the law. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committees on Legislative, Internal Policy and National Security. The report you received at the session. I ask State Secretary of the Ministry of Interior Ivica Buconjic to further explain the proposal. Here you go, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u16036	In this legislative proposal before you, it is practical to extend the validity of the contract for the establishment of the International Centre for the Development of Migration Policy. This center for the development of migration policy was established in 1993, Croatia has been in the status of an associated member since 95, and this year, a law on the confirmation of this contract has finally been passed in January, which has practically made Croatia a full member of the International Centre for the Development of Migration Policy. Since the first basic contract of 93 was concluded on a fixed period of time, which expired on 30 April this year, a new contract was to be signed on an identical basis that would establish the duration of this migration policy development centre indefinitely. Therefore, it is only that the original agreement on the establishment of this centre has expired, that all members have reaffirmed the agreement to extend the duration of the contract for the establishment of an international center for the development of migration policy for an indefinite period of time, and I, on behalf of the MUP, suggest that the Parliament also confirm this law that Croatia will continue to be a member of the International Centre for the Development of Migration Policy. Otherwise, this migration policy centre is extremely important for Croatia, because Croatia will have to apply all migration policy standards in line with European standards with candidate status. and so far, from this International Centre Croatia has benefited from implementing the "twining" project, border control project, so we expect support from this international centre in all our migration activities whether they are legal or illegal. So, I suggest you confirm this law, because it practically extends the duration of this centre that has been useful to Croatia so far. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u16037	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. We're going to, I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the club. What? Well, I asked. I didn't see you from another counsel, okay, okay. President of the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security, Honored Representative Ivan Jarnjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u16038	Mr President, subject to the report on the proposal for a Treaty on the Third Amendment of the Treaty on the Establishment and Labour of the International Centre for the Development of Migration Policy, with the Final Proposal for a Law. The Committee on Internal Policy and National Security at the 16th session held on 7 July 2004 discussed the proposal of the Law on the Confirmation of the Treaty on the Third Amendment of the Treaty on the Establishment and Labour of the International Centre for the Development of Migration Policy, with the final proposal for a law submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Government of the Republic of Croatia by an act of 20 May 2004 with a proposal for the adoption of the law by an urgent procedure. The Committee does not object to the proposal for the adoption of this law by emergency procedure, because it considers that the law is of interest to the Republic of Croatia. The Committee fully supported the presentation of the president of the legislator, and took into account the fact that the Republic of Croatia needs to confirm the Treaty on the Third Amendment of the Treaty on the Establishment and Labour of the International Centre for the Development of Migration Policy in order to fully implement the accession process for this international centre aimed at improving international cooperation in the area of migration policy. By a majority of votes of 6 votes for, 1 abstentions, the Committee decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament the adoption of the Law on Confirmation of the Treaty on the Third Amendment of the Treaty on the Establishment and Labour of the International Centre for the Development of Migration Policy in the text as proposed by the legislator. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u16039	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the Club of HNS Representatives, the esteemed representative Miljenko Doric.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u16040	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues very briefly. I would just like to repeat, therefore, that we had this law on the agenda on 29 January of this year, so the Law on Confirmation of the Treaty on the Establishment and Labour of the International Centre for the Development of Migration Policy. We then accepted him by emergency procedure. and I just have to remind you that, and then in the debate, I intervened, and I expressed my dissatisfaction and dissatisfaction in front of the NNS Club, the way in which this centre was essentially presented, the way in which we explained the usefulness of this centre at all, and especially the fact that in written materials, we received data that were more than antiquated, I underline it. Because in our oral explanation, we got fresher and more recent data. Unfortunately, today we can see that even the oral data that we received at the time in January of this year has not been updated by the auction secretary of the Ministry of the Interior. So for this reason, this law has completely unnecessaryly come to our benches twice in the last six months. Why do I say unnecessary? What we haven't heard in the opening statement is that the members of the Member States who signed this contract essentially changed the contract in June last year and gave it to the signing. So, we could accept the contract logically and proposed changes even 7 months earlier were proposed amendments. And I think colleagues and colleagues that we really need to stop working this way, stop endlessly and needlessly repeating the material. I think that professional services and promoters really should make an effort, a little effort to actually do it at least when we can in one act, at this point I think that we Parliamentarians really deserve an apology from someone who's pulling us by our noses in this way, and I don't think this is really how we should work. And, Mr. President, it's up to you to really determine who he is and why he's actually made a failure like this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u16041	Thank you. On behalf of the HSP Club, respected representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u16042	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The Treaty on the Establishment and Labour of the International Centre for the Development of Migration Policy, adopted by the Assembly, means this meeting on 29 January 2004, ceases to apply on 30 April 2004. In fact, it was a contract for a certain time, and that's why it's now going to make a new contract so that it can be indefinitely. The promoter is now seeking, meaning that the Republic of Croatia confirms the third amendment of the Treaty on the Establishment and Labour of the International Centre for the Development of Migration Policy. The proposer imposes it as something necessary. We just don't see if it's necessary or why it's so necessary. In fact, it is important here to say that the proposal does not explain why it is necessary. Moreover, this Treaty is obviously not a alignment with the European Community legislation or the European Union because there is no P.Z.E. code. This contract they signed, so he had primarily for a certain period of time the importance of some other European states such as Hungary, Slovenia and others remain only now at the Swiss Confederation and Austria. So, these other countries that were previously signed are no longer in this contract, so there are no reasons why the other signatories of this contract have withdrawn and there is no record of the work so far at the international centre. By ratifying this contract, we should discuss and accept an emergency procedure, and normally with this we impose an obligation immediately. It is said that there will be no need to increase the additional financial resources but that they are secured in the state budget, only here we must remember that in the previous assembly the two laws, the Law on Asylum and the Law on Foreigners were quickly passed, and where we are... The high competence of the MUP to watch and to tie up the issue of work permits, so now we have one situation in Croatia that becomes very dangerous to have a lot of foreigners, for example, working on highway construction and everywhere else that objective police cannot control and we have a big problem, it is a little bit spoken of. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The nest is the immigration of Chinese people in Croatia but there is one problem of long-term nature because according to some indications, the Chinese mafia also stands behind it. This should be taken into account especially because it is part of the conquest of new areas and markets so very much, so there is no good reason to crash into the emergency procedure and accept, therefore more so as countries such as Slovenia and Hungary that were in the first round are no more signatories. So I think we should think this contract through. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u16043	Thank you very much. Honorable representative of Alenka Kosisa Chichin-Shain. Here's a correction to the incorrect quote by the respected representative Ivo Josipovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u16044	Well, I would only correct the assumption so much that Chinese immigrants certainly don't have the most mob standing and that there shouldn't be any difference between them and other immigrants. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u16045	Dear colleague Alenka Kosha Chichin-Shain. She's gone. She's losing her word on this subject. Does State Secretary Ivica Buconjic want to give a final review? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u16046	Thank you very much. I'd just like to ask some dilemmas here to be clarified because there were a lot of rough qualifications that the MUP was dragging behind the nose of the parliamentary representatives. In fact, it wasn't unnecessary for you to say twice that this case was being held in a parliamentary debate because in January when we first ratified this contract with the then law, the first contract of 1993 was still in effect. The 1993 contract said he was in effect until April 30th of this year. So we confirmed that first basic contract before it expired. Croatia joined the agreement in 1995 and had the status of an associated member, not a full member and therefore we had a lot of objections from the European Union countries. Therefore, the first law of 27 January this year ratified the accession of that first basic contract. Since during the time of 30 April, the contract expired with this current proposal, practically Croatia re-accessed to this new contract extending the duration of the international center for the development of migration policy. Also, to answer only the question of why this haste, why an emergency procedure. In fact, I have to introduce you to the fact that this centre, the International Centre for Migration Policy, has made a significant contribution to the Republic of Croatia. First of all, I think of the MUP in implementing an integrated border management programme. For a long time, Croatia has been required to make its borders significantly more effective, to monitor them practically in accordance with the Schengen criteria, and Croatia has been praised by the European Commission for this programme of integrated management of the state border as one of the most successful projects that Croatia has ever implemented since the CARDS programme. For this we also received not small financial resources, we also received equipment so that it is practically one of the best projects Croatia has ever implemented from the CARDS programme. And again, I point out, in the implementation of this project, we have had really great and selfless assistance from this International Centre for Migration Policy, so I continue to believe that accession to this contract on the establishment of this centre for Croatia is really useful because of the very great benefit of this centre in monitoring migration policy and monitoring migration flows. And what has been said about the Chinese and all other migrations and legal and illegal Croatia will certainly be able to control these migration flows more fully and across our territory into our country if we have timely and quality information such as these international migration flows in other countries as well. If we face these migrations without enough quality data on their development in other countries, we will find it much harder to face them, so make sure that both this centre and the information and assistance we receive from them will certainly be in a much better position and more effective and more effective and control and migration and the entry of foreigners into the Republic of Croatia. Once again, there was really no tendency or intention to pull anyone's nose, but there was a sequence of events, and it was first of all from the contract which Croatia joined in 1995 but did not ratify until 29 January this year, I do not think there is any need to further delay the ratification of this contract and accession to the International Integration Centre. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u16047	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u16048	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'd have corrected Mr. Secretary of State's allegations if there'd been a tendency... So on January 29th, when we discussed the accession and ratification of that contract, it was intended to deceive someone with data. [[The speaker is off, you can't hear it.]] A colleague, Doric, spoke about the fact that in January of the month when we joined the treaty and ratified the known facts were that the founders of the centre and the signatories of the contract in June last year had made changes and that from a temporary growth to a permanent centre which was not said in the Parliament at that time. That's the thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u16049	Thank you, too. Dear Representative Miljenko Doric corrects the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u16050	Mr. President, so it's not a dispute until the old contract was worth it. It has been a dispute since the country was given the opportunity to accept third amendments and that was June 2003. Therefore, no one would object to us if we had accepted both the contract and the proposals in January, amendments to that contract. That's what I was talking about, not saying the same thing over and over again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u16051	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. Final proposal of the Law on the confirmation of the Treaty on the Third Amendment to the Treaty on the Establishment and Labour of the International Centre for the Development of Migration Policy, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 117. The debate on the text of the law is over. The amendment was submitted by the Legislative Committee. I ask Minister Marijan Mlinarić to show himself about the amendment proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u16053	Since it is only a legal and technical standard, the amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u16054	Thank you very much. It becomes an integral part of the law. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Restraint? I find that with 79 votes for and 6 against, today's proposed law is in the text as proposed by the Proposer, together with the amendment adopted. 2. Proposal for a law confirming the Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina on common locations at border crossing points, with a final draft law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading of P.Z. No. 120 The legislator is the Government, and when establishing the agenda, we accepted the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of this law. The emergency procedure combines first and second readings, amendments can be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committees on Legislative Affairs, Internal Policy and National Security and Maritime Affairs, Transport and Connections. You received the reports at the session. I'd like the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Mr. Gordan Bakot to further explain the proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u16056	Mr. President, gentlemen of MPs and MPs, for a few words on a bilateral agreement aimed at creating conditions for the smooth traffic of passengers and goods at border crossings. Therefore, the agreement on joint locations at border crossings is concluded to establish a regime that will facilitate and speed up border control at border crossings in road traffic. It has been shown, however, that the issue of land configuration at individual crossing points as well as significant financial savings which will be the result of the application of this Treaty which is already in force before the entry into force. The contract provides, therefore, that application is agreed from the date of signature and I can say that the contract so far absolutely justified its circumstances and reasons concluded because there has been a large savings and better efficiency in work. First of all, the contract defines the area of common location, the rules of border control in the zone, the construction of buildings, the installation of equipment, and the design of special annexes for each area of common location is envisaged. It is also a question of representatives of the international community in the areas of common location and control. With that in mind, it is a contract, which, as I said, is already being applied, as I said it has also justified all expectations so far and we propose that today enter into force. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u16057	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to see it? Yeah. Maritime, Transport and Communications Committee. Dear Representative Zivko Nenadić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u16058	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. The Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Liaison of the Croatian Parliament held at the 7th session on 29 June 2004 discussed the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina on common locations at border crossing points with the Final Proposal for the Law, the Emergency Procedure, P.Z. No. 120, which has been submitted by the government of the Republic of Croatia to the President of the Croatian Parliament by its act of 3 June 2004. The Committee considered the proposal for a law confirming the Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina on common locations at border crossing points with the Final Proposal of the Law as the home working body in accordance with the provisions of Article 89. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The Committee also adopted a proposal for a proposal for the Law to be adopted following an urgent procedure in accordance with the provisions of Article 159. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. In the opening statement, the applicant's representative pointed out that it was a confirmation of the Agreement on Common Locations which was signed and applied. Its purpose, among other things, is to improve bilateral cooperation and good neighbourly relations and to create conditions for the smooth traffic of passengers and goods at border crossings. It defines the area of common location, the rules of border control in the zone, building facilities and setting up equipment, as well as the issue of the presence of representatives of the international community at border crossings in the areas of the common location. After the debate, the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Communications unanimously proposes to the Croatian Parliament to accept this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u16059	Thank you very much. Do you want another committee reporter? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HSS Club, respected representative Bozidar Pankretic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u16060	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State. So a few sentences regarding the confirmation of this Treaty, of course it is not a disputed confirmation of this Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina on common locations at border crossing points. Because I think it is clear that bilateral co-operation and good neighbourly relations should in some way extend that bilateral co-operation and good neighbourly relations should in some way extend that the contract goes in that direction. I would say, it is more controversial here, which is in the assessment of the situation and the law-making objective where it is said that the Treaty on Common Locations at border crossings is concluded to establish a regime that will facilitate, speed up border control at border crossings in road traffic. We all know what problems we face in relations especially in this part of Bosnia and Herzegovina, I don't think it's any secret and it's not the first time we've mentioned here that unfortunately the gap from that border is too great. There are big problems in that part, and I think no matter what I support this Treaty, but of course we'll have opportunities. In the part where it is mentioned, in particular, about the crossing of the state border for special products. So the traffic of goods, when we know, for example, when it comes to agricultural products, especially in livestock, then we know that all states, for example, of a United States of America, have only one border crossing to their country of such goods. Unfortunately, because of the good neighbourly relations here, we've still left a number of border crossings, I think it's known in foreign affairs, and in the last government we've talked a lot about it, and unfortunately we've been in a situation many times that some of our goods still enters in an illegal way. I believe that through this Treaty on common border crossings, solid, tighter controls will still be established and we will not have those situations that we are warned about on a daily basis, especially our agricultural producers. Here I can highlight those who are particularly affected by illegal imports from Bosnia and Herzegovina, especially vegetables and fruit farmers who warn us daily, I would say of one competition, meaning illegal competition that still affects our producers. This isn't the measure of it today, we support this Treaty of course. But I believe the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, as well as the Ministry of the Interior, will take more care, because of course this problem is not from today, he's been present for a number of years, but I think it's time to sort it out somehow. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u16061	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. Final proposal of the Law on the confirmation of contracts between the Republic of Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina on common locations at border crossings, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 120. The debate on the text of the law is over. The amendment was submitted by the Legislative Committee. I would like the representative of State Secretary Gordan Bakot to be made aware of the proposed amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u16063	Mr. President, the amendment is accepted. It is a nomotechnical change which defines more precisely the jurisdiction of individual ministries and therefore needs to be adopted by this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u16064	Thank you very much. The amendment becomes an integral part of the law. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Restraint? I find that, with 79 votes for and 6 against the proposed law in the text, as proposed by the Proposer, together with the amendment adopted. 3. Proposal for a law confirming the further Additional Protocol of the Agreement between the States of the Parties to the North Atlantic Treaty and other States participating in a partnership for peace on the legal position of their forces, with the Final Privilege of the Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 121 The Proposer is Government. When establishing the agenda, we accepted the emergency procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committees on Legislative, Internal Policy and National Security. You received the reports at the session. I ask the defence minister, Berislav Roncevic, to further explain the proposal. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u16066	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. The basis for the adoption of the law in question is Article 139(1). The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 18 Laws on the conclusion and completion of international contracts. This Law confirms the co-operation of the Ministry of Defence and the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia with the defence ministries and the Armed Forces of NATO member states and the Partnership for Peace which is on a steady rise and is seen through cooperation and visits to delegations and bilateral and multilateral military exercises that you witnessed in the decision of the Croatian Parliament on the maintenance of military exercises. The Republic of Croatia concluded an agreement between the States of the North Atlantic Treaty and other countries participating in a partnership for peace on the legal position of their forces, so-called “NATO pie fissa” plus an additional protocol to the agreement that entered into force for the Republic of Croatia on 10 February 2002. The main objective of the further additional protocol signed in Brussels on 15 December 2003 on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Croatia by Mr Antun Tus on 15 December 2003 is to enable better co-operation between NATO members' forces and "Piefia" in the Member States' military exercises. The Republic of Croatia will enter the circle of states that have made the further protocol part of its internal legal order by adopting the law. The further additional protocol regulates the legal position of NATO military commanders and commands in the state area of the states participating in a partnership for peace and thus commands that are attached or associated with NATO military command. The implementation of the further additional protocol does not require the agreement to provide specific financial resources, given that the implementation of the agreement is used by the State budget for planning activities within NATO and "Piefia". In view of the nature of the procedure for confirming international contracts as well as the fact that amendments or additions to the text of the international contract cannot be made at this stage of the procedure, I propose, on behalf of the applicant of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, this Act to be adopted by means of an urgent procedure uniting first and second reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u16067	Thank you to the Committee's rapporteur. President of the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security, Mr. Ivan Jarnjak please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u16068	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues! According to the report on the proposal for a law on the confirmation of further, an additional protocol of the agreement between the States of the North Atlantic Treaty and other States participating in a partnership for peace, on the legal position of their forces with the Final Proposal for Law P.Z. No. 121, the Committee on National Policy and National Security on the 16th session held on 7 July 2004 discussed the proposal for a Law on Confirmation of Further, Additional Protocol to the Agreement between the States of the North Atlantic Treaty and the other States participating in the Partnership for Peace, on the legal position of their forces with the Final Proposal for a Law submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Government of the Republic of Croatia by the Act of 3 June 2004 with the proposal for a Law to pass an emergency procedure law. The Committee does not object to the proposal for the adoption of this Act by emergency procedure because it considers that the law is of interest to the Republic of Croatia. In the follow-up session, the proposing representative met the members of the Committee with the reasons for the adoption of this Act. The Committee accepted the argument of the representatives of the Government and had in particular taken into account that by joining this further additional protocol, the agreement between the States of the North Atlantic Treaty and the other states participating in a partnership for peace, the legal position of their forces would further strengthen their partnership ties with NATO members and the “Piefpie” and significantly increase their interoperability. By majority of the votes; 6 votes for and 1 abstention decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament the adoption of the Law on Confirmation of a further protocol to the agreement between the States, the parties of the North Atlantic Treaty and the other states participating in a partnership for peace on the legal position of their forces. In the text as proposed by the legislator.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u16069	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the Club of HSP MPs, respected representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u16070	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Ante Starcevic said: “On a good basis there can be a bad building, and on a bad basis there is always a bad building.” Now this debate on the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation is very similar to that statement. You know why he looks like one? Because we first and foremost need to discuss what our situation is in the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia, what the combatability of the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia is, we need to discuss and make a decision means that the Croatian Parliament must adopt a long-term plan for the development of the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia, and then we can go ahead with the public debate. Public debates so that we could no longer be told when we talk about such important topics: “You see the situation so that at this stage the conclusion of international contracts cannot be discussed anymore, so it is almost and yours just raise your hand. Therefore, we must, and I remind you that this House, on April 2nd this year, has reached its conclusion on the proposal of the HSP Club, which is required by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to rush, means that, in a hurry and no later than 60 days, the annual report on the readiness of the defence system, the implementation of human resources and the overall state of the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia and the report on the implementation of the defence plan of the Republic of Croatia and the implementation of the defence preparations. Therefore, according to us, it is an indisputable fact that further deepening of the partnership for peace, including NATO alliances, we must first and foremost discuss here, it is our constitutional and obligation, and fine in the Constitution is said: "Croatia has armed forces, it has a defence system," to see what kind of defence system we have, what kind of armed forces we have, and then to see how and how we will go in these various different ways or involving NATO or other associations. And just because of these facts means you're not out at this point, it's not appropriate for this to be carried out by an emergency procedure. We can only learn from newspapers without debate, obviously that this part of NATO's accession to the alliance deals with only one narrow part of the people within the government and the foreign ministry, but for me, it is questionable how much they know about the NATO alliance. The situation is questionable because we have read many different statements in the daily press, including the defence minister himself, and I don't know if he said that, as he said: “We won't need two branches of armed forces, military aviation and the Navy anymore, because the situation really in the two branches is such that there are no states anymore.” We're also listening here, I've been reading General Tus' statements saying that we're much cheaper in the NATO alliance and that it won't require any additional costs to the state. Now let's see how much we stand out for the army. We're out somewhere about 2% of GDP, that's somewhere on the base of $180 per capita. We also know what our situation is that somewhere over 70% at this time of all the budget funds goes to pay and so on. material costs, so there's one very small part left to focus on weapons and military equipment. So that fact is already telling us enough what our bad start-up situation is. So let's start by creating a very legal foundation. The other thing is, and it's true, let's just take an example of the Czech Republic, Poland and Hungary that entered the NATO alliance. They are back 5 years ago, they had to secure, the budget increased by more than 30% to reach this part, so they could join the NATO alliance. So I think it would be best if there were a lot of reasons for and against joining the NATO alliance, but one whole debate should be brought about. We have seen for ourselves that the final examination of the public opinion of Croatian citizens tells us that 40% is not for joining the NATO alliance.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u16071	Let me warn my colleague Kovacevic. This is a debate on the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of a further Additional Protocol to an Agreement between States a party to the North Atlantic Treaty and other states with, on the legal position of their forces, not on Croatia's entry into NATO, not on the Armed Forces of Croatia. [[I'm talking about the basis of Mr. Shakespeare.]] The government has fulfilled its obligation to this conclusion which you have quoted before and delivered to me these days these documents bearing the designation "state secret" and I am obliged to organise a debate in the Croatian Parliament on these documents for which the Croatian Parliament has committed to the Government of the Republic of Croatia. A delicate discussion with the indication of materials bearing the sign of "state secret" will be organised in accordance with the regulations of the debate, and I ask you to limit yourself in further discussion not to topics relating to Croatia's entry into NATO, but rather to the legal position...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u16072	You forbid anyone to say anything that doesn't suit you. That would be the smartest thing to put in the Rules of Procedure, I forbid talking to anyone else if he didn't make a deal with me, that's what I'm proposing.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u16073	No, Mr. Representative, but the subject is the legal position of the force...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u16074	To talk about the situation we need to see what we have...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u16075	... Croatia to NATO.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u16076	We can't go upstairs, and we haven't solved the foundations.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u16077	Please, I'm telling you what the topic is. You're bound by the Rules of Procedure to stick to the subject. It is not a debate on Croatia's entry into NATO. That's what we're gonna have to discuss.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u16078	Yeah, 'cause it's about these things.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u16079	Right, about the legal position of the North Atlantic Union's forces.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u16080	First of all, I do not agree with these views of yours, because the issue of defence and national security of the country. We are told here that it is necessary for us to enter among the first and that we are in this way addressing the issue of collective security. Now tell me what the state of collective security is after 9/11. How can NATO respond to terrorism and other things? How's it fit? Not at all. Why is he serving NATO? So we need to talk about it. We make international contracts further, and we haven't discussed the basics, that's the important difference. Now let's go to this part, about those famous sofas we'll talk about later. We have two types of sofas, the first part being spoken, and in this contract that's the part where military exercises are held that participants, so only during military exercises, the command has immunity, and we have that part of the sofa that's connected to the Dayton Agreement that ESFOR members had total immunity in our area. We know a lot of Croatian citizens whose members of ESFOR, meaning international forces, damaged vehicles. Did they get kuna fees? No, they're not. Who cares? That doesn't matter, normally Mr. Shakespeare says you can't discuss it. Normal. What kind of situation is that?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u16081	That's what it's about, Mr. Kovacevic. That's what this is about, a legal position, and not another, don't replace the subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u16082	So there are a lot of these topics that we need...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u16083	This is the topic, about the legal situation.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u16084	And that's Mr. President, I know you're also sharing my opinion, that's all the topic that we could get to the right...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u16085	Well, don't mind the MPs, but stick to the subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u16086	So your clubmates are gonna keep talking. So it's obvious that there's no room for this motion to be discussed in an emergency procedure, you had to make the next variant and you didn't tell us that, if you had told us earlier then we would have asked first to hold this debate on the situation in the Armed Forces as one of the first points. Maybe I wouldn't even be happy, even if I were to point out these objections, but I would raise my hand right now and say by giving up the debate, the situation is phenomenal, I accept this proposal for an agreement. I may not know, but I still have to warn the situation. The Department of Defense is the only one of the ministries that doesn't have a secretary of state today. The other ministries have all the State Secretarys, the Department of Defense has no Secretary of State, and today I'm glad to see the Secretary of Defense, I've never seen him before. So we have people who are capable, if we have to propose and discuss it wisely. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u16087	Okay. Correction of the incorrect allegations by the esteemed representative William Herman.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u16088	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. I believe that a colleague has stolen a mistake and then more of this kind of instruction and is doing well on purpose, there is no GDP... /The speaker has been excluded./...it is the correction of my incorrect quote and I ask you to commend me, because it is a school example.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u16089	Well, my colleague Herman isn't much of a complimentary fellow. There is no praise in the Rules of Procedure, otherwise you would, but what else comes, which is foreseen by the Rules of Procedure, I will gladly meet you. Honored representative Kresimir Cosic on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u16090	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Here is an opportunity to recall once again what is the basic objective of the bill to confirm the further additional protocol to the agreement between the States of the North Atlantic Treaty and the other countries participating in a partnership for peace on the legal position of their forces. The main objective is to enable even better cooperation between the armed forces of the NATO member states and the Partnership for Peace in the conduct of joint exercises in the territory of the Republic of Croatia, as well as participation of troops of the Republic of Croatia in the state field of other NATO and the PfP members. Therefore, the proposal for this law regulates the legal position of NATO military command, PFP Member States and state command staff in the area of the States participating in a partnership for peace with the aim of facilitating relations with the armed forces of individual states participating in a partnership for peace, while accepting the need to ensure an appropriate legal position for staff of the partner countries' armed forces, which is attached or associated with NATO military commands. I also use the opportunity to remind myself of the history of this agreement, which was signed in June 1995 in its basic variant, and it was also the legal basis, the legal basis for implementing NATO's first peacekeeping operation in Bosnia and Herzegovina. An EIFOR unit has been deployed through the Republic of Croatia under the agreement, ESFOR operations have been continued. Under the agreement, the Federation Army Training and Equipment programme was implemented and certainly the legal framework experienced the need for a specific update. These needs have been defined and adopted between all the member states of the Partnership for Peace and NATO and Croatia as sides signed these additions to the agreement in Brussels on 15 December 2003. As early as 1995, standards that were very important for the implementation of the first peacekeeping operation and these standards, as well as all other standards, have evolved in accordance with the relevant experiences, are being updated and we are here today in a position to accept these changes that allow this agreement to be more effective, more quality and simpler. It refers to commands, but includes joint commands, i.e. ground, sea and air forces. As such, as an international multilateral agreement he was delivered here for acceptance, or ratification. From all of this, the HDZ Representatives Club supports the adoption under the urgent procedure of the Law on Confirmation of a further Additional Protocol to an agreement between the States Parties of the North Atlantic Treaty and other States that participate in the Partnership for Peace on the Legal Position of their Forces as an important multilateral international agreement whose Republic of Croatia has been signatories since 1995, and it is certainly logical and understandable that these amendments and complements are also needed and I believe that we will very soon adopt. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u16091	Thank you on behalf of the IDS Representatives Club, Honorable Representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u16092	Your Honor, Mr. President, the esteemed minister, the distinguished gentlemen of the council. Well, the Croatian commitment to the need to join the European Union or NATO is not a newer date, I believe it is an old Croatian desire to be in a community with the most advanced European countries, to be in countries that have democratic, to raise standards to pedestal fundamental human values. It is clear to me that these standards are likely to exist primarily in order for Western democracies to preserve their economic and social values, to preserve the social order, and that these values are more accessible to a wider number of their populations, these communities will be stronger. I agree that the European Union and NATO are not ideal communities but to paraphrasise old cynic Winston Churchill that "the world knows nothing better than parliamentary democracy" is also probably the principle that at this point Europe knows nothing better than the European Union and in a defensive sense nothing more effective than the NATO Alliance. I have no illusions we will not dictate to either the European Union or NATO, perhaps we will also be marginalised there, but it may be better to be marginalized in a society that decides something than to be alone without being able to decide anything. I believe that one country that has joined the EU or NATO has lost nothing that has profited from all the lists does not matter if it is Ireland, Portugal, Greece, the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Poland, etc. Everyone's got it. All these countries before 90th were economically perhaps behind Croatia, but today things are very different. THAT Croatia is a NATO member in one, regardless of what might have allowed this NATO war to start in these areas, let's remember Baker, etc.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u16093	My colleague Cain, I must also question you, this is a law that speaks of a legal situation.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u16094	We have to say something in general to get to this last one.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u16095	... NATO.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u16096	Well, we can't talk about it, nobody can talk about it alone, but there's no dispute, Mr. President, that we're not going to go now in detail of this legislative proposal IDS will surely support it in an international contract. These international contracts simply act on that principle to receive or leave us can clearly depolize with certain provisions but this is exactly what you take or leave, and this is when you should take, says that either we can accept the agreement as a whole or we can simply reject it. I think it would be a disaster if we decided on this other solution but precisely because everything is personal, I believe we need to say something in principle about our understanding of Croatia's entry into those international associations of which NATO is certainly one of the more important teams that draws attention or attention to the fact that Croatia may not be in NATO before Serbia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, etc., which will say that NATO is still seeing or looking at these areas in the region. Although we are also looking forward to recently being told that both NATO and the European Union's entry depends exclusively on Croatia, there is no transmission, then we will interrupt. That's not why. That's not why I'm answering. One word here, no problem, IDS will vote for this agreement.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u16097	On behalf of the HNS PGS Club, the respected representative, Srecko Ferenčak.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u16098	Your Honor, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. I would like to begin my presentation with one finding, which is that one of the biggest goals and interests of the Republic of Croatia is just entering NATO. If I were to explicate now which are all the benefits that Croatia would have of that, but all the countries that have entered NATO have benefited from that. Since my esteemed colleague, Mr. Pero Kovacevic, is a shadow defence minister, you may not see all these goals so well from that shadow, so either when it comes out of the shadows, it may be better to see. Croatia, as a signator of the Peace Partnership Agreement, must follow... from an additional 1997 protocol and from the provisions of the 1991 Protocol on the status of international military headquarters. Moreh's co-operation with the armed forces and NATO member ministries and countries in the Partnership for Peace is a constant increase. The highest intensity in bilateral relations and multilateral exercises of the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia and the armed forces of certain countries. The establishment of a further co-operation within the Partnership for Peace enables the Republic of Croatia to use scientific and technical achievements in the area of defence and facilitates the way to join the Republic of Croatia with Euro-Atlantic integration. Croatia is a signator of previous contracts, but with the follow-up of activities and the continued expansion of current defence co-operation, there is a need for further legal regulation of this area. The main objective of the conclusion of this Protocol, signed by the extraordinary and authorised ambassador of the Republic of Croatia to NATO Mr Antun Tus on 15 December 2003 in Brussels, was to enable even better co-operation by the intensive participation of NATO troops in military exercises in the territory of the Republic of Croatia, as well as the participation of RS troops in the field of other NATO members. The Confirmation Act will ensure the entry of the Republic of Croatia into a circle of countries which have already ratified the Protocol and thus included it in its internal legal order. The ratification of this Protocol will be one of the factors to be considered when Croatia joins NATO. Taking into account the natural process of confirming international contracts to which the State de jure expresses its readiness.... the contract signed as well as the fact that this stage of the procedure cannot make amendments and amendments to the text should be supported by the verification of that law, therefore the HNS PGS will support this draft law by an urgent procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u16099	Thank you very much. Honorable representative Ante Markov on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the HSS.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u16100	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. It's hard not to get away from the topic a little bit, but I can see that the president is meeting, so I'm going to try as little as possible to run away from the topic as possible, but I'm going to say only at the beginning that the goal of creating and discussing every law of desire to do the general good, to do what will help the citizens, the state of the people and the individual. The final proposal of the Confirmation Act should also serve this very purpose, in this case strengthening the armed forces, and therefore, a partial introduction to the debate on the state of the armed forces is naturally sublimed in the name of the material itself and must be seen as such. What I would also say right away is that exactly what a message is through these discussions of this very important document from the public perspective. Which is why you think the public has been very negative towards NATO in recent months, so one resistance to the NATO alliance is growing. So there is a bit of growth and misunderstanding towards the European Union when you read various surveys, etc. What's the reason? So I think a law like this given the complexity of the matter he is processing, which is the legal aspects of very serious work and slow entry into the part that we have brought into this Parliament, because as counterpart Cain said, this is not a new contract, this is just a protocol that has been done before, he had a very valuable discussion and voted for it. But what matters isn't supposed to send the wrong messages to the public. And the wrong messages are messages when the people who speak here don't understand the matter, and then the wrong messages come to the citizens and they think it's either something too good or something dangerous, and in any case, why does it take a quality debate on this subject? Quality debate on the situation in the armed forces. Quality debate on reforms. So if the citizens understood that they knew what it was about, the days would be exposed to the pressure of those who wanted to direct their thinking to some sides that were not good or not right. That's why we, together with the HSP Club, have advocated that this be a debate in normal, regular procedure. This is a pretentious topic. And it would be too easy to say that we agree, because this is an international contract and we have to honor every international contract. And then you don't need Parliament if that's the case. So it certainly isn't. And the HSS Club is in all these discussions always supporting the principles that Croatian Armed Forces should be strengthened, it needs reform, but the reform that corresponds to this society, which, of course, will not be a reform to end up without an army, but rather a reform in which the military will be strengthened, perhaps smaller, but stronger and more efficient. It is in this context that this final proposal of the Treaty Confirmation Act primarily refers to a partnership for peace and those countries that are still left, as some have in the meantime moved into a larger circle. Unfortunately, we did not receive a very strong call from Istanbul, and we expected it, but of course such legal norms as are passed by this final proposal of the Confirmation Act should be considered primarily for the sake of all those involved in the creation of the ultimate goal. And this ultimate goal we call upon is not to glorify it, so to speak, we are the only goals in the history that NATO and the European Union want. We aim to create a country that will benefit our citizens. And if that fits these two, fine. That is why we do not need to glorify any document, and treat it as if this debate in the Assembly was completely unnecessary, only that we had profiled and said, we are in favour. I should be in, because we were in the previous government that absolutely supported the convergence through the Partnership for Peace and the creation of all those assumptions, not for the sake of another, but for our armed forces, to keep all three components and land, and an air and maritime orientation within the armed forces. That's what's important and that's what needs to be read out of everyone, even from this law. Therefore, clear messages must precede every good and smart decision. And what will be our decision, what will be the position on the confirmation of this bill, we will see at the vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u16101	Thank you very much. My colleagues and colleagues, we have recently been approached by the Secretary General of the North Atlantic Union. The other day, we also had a visit from the chairman of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly, who also spoke with party representatives, with the Committee on Parliamentary Co-operation, with NATO, to discuss NATO. We'll have a thorough debate in the fall. I don't want to deny or restrict anyone. But I think that all arguments about NATO should be left for this parliamentary debate that we will have largely organised in the fall. Defence Minister Roncevic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u16102	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I reported mostly for one attitude that you have now said in this final part of your presentation. We cannot talk about the Croatian Armed Forces, and normally we always have to touch NATO as joining NASTO is one of the strategic goals of Croatian foreign policy and there is continuity there and that is reality. However, what I want to tell you as Minister of Defence of the Government, there is nothing to be done outside of this respected home, and the Croatian government is just preparing preparatory documents that will be expected in the autumn when we finish making a strategic review of the defence that the government will refer here in debate. It is also a study on possible professionalisation of the Croatian Armed Forces. A public debate on civil defense opened the other day. Therefore, all these documents, all of that concerning the defence of Euro-Atlantic integration, means Croatian inspiration for NATO membership, all goes publicly and transparently through the Defence Strategic Review Council. However, I am obliged as a member of the government to comment on what Mr. Markov said. Messages from Istanbul are very clear and very high quality, Croatia's progress has been assessed and individual approach is guaranteed, this is what Croatia is objectively prepared at this time. And I'm free to say that no matter how anyone else reads it, NATO has opened the door for us, it's up to us to go through that door or not, but everyone according to their political belief about the correctness of that decision. Therefore, the process of reforming the armed forces continues, it will call for changes to the Law on Defence and the Law on the Service of the Armed Forces, and all this will be found in the debate in front of this respected home. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u16103	Thank you. Dear Representative Vlado Jukic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u16104	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. After interpreting the President of the Parliament on what is the topic, which is not the subject, I find it very difficult to speak at all on this subject, since in my opinion it is impossible to talk about the agreement between Croatia and NATO, and not to take into the context of the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia or NATO itself or the process and the process of Croatia's eventual entry into NATO. If we and NATO are discussing an additional flow, an agreement with NATO, and that NATO cannot be mentioned in the context, then I don't see it, I think it's abuse of the Rules of Procedure, and in no case is not what it should be. Because whether it's a theme or not, we've come really to absurdity, so if necessary, then I can just quote here and say for, against, or abstention, or another broader context is allowed. I hope he's allowed a broader context. In 1999, when we were standing in this same hall, sitting in the halls discussing the event that took place, and the bombing of Serbia and Belgrade by the NATO alliance air forces took place, we were then officially and unofficially asking the question, who, when and in what way approved the NATO air force, the flying over of the Croatian airspace, and thus the bombing of Belgrade. We never received an official response in writing, nor was it ever explained to the Croatian public or to the representatives that it happened and what happened on the night of the bombing of Belgrade through the Croatian airspace. Of course, we heard off the record, so who's got you Croats for what? We heard that off the record. We haven't heard an answer since then from the Croatian government. and this is the position of the Republic of Croatia which should certainly be respected, since we do not have an air force that could have done anything at all, regardless of its principled sovereignty over our airspace, but this is about the relationship between NATO and the states of size and the number of inhabitants and economic forces such as the Republic of Croatia, and we also respect that in HSP. However, we cannot respect the fact that in the Croatian political public, and even here in this debate, the matter comes down to the fact that Croatia has already joined the NATO alliance or that a decision has already been made to join the alliance. That decision has not been made. We're just about to make that decision. Regardless of the fact, so far, a series of agreements have been signed with members, with the NATO Alliance and on the side, the question arises whether it is necessary for NATO to accept the Republic of Croatia at all. After adopting previous agreements and this Protocol itself, they obviously do not have the need to join us when they have received everything from us and are already getting it, and this agreement gives them full immunity, legal personality, the right to have real estate. We give up part of sovereignty. With this agreement and all similar agreements, Croatia has denied sovereignty and the consequences of this denial are known cases where foreign soldiers in the Republic of Croatia are defending their colleague who committed a traffic violation and who, of course, has never responded in the Republic of Croatia or will respond in all such and similar cases. These are the consequences of making such agreements. The NATO alliance also received previous agreements and with this agreement everything it wanted, a practical position as if we were a member. On the other hand, the Republic of Croatia has received only obligations, rights almost nothing. Of course, theoretical rights exist. In theory, there is a possibility that the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia may hold some exercise in the territory of the United States whether it will be very difficult for us to experience it. And the essence of this agreement is actually in point 6 which says, "This protocol can cancel any side of this protocol by sending written notice of the United States Government's resignation." And that provision is actually clear what it's all about. Colonization has various forms, so one of the forms, a kind of colonization is also the imposition of such agreements. The issue was opened after Istanbul because no matter what the defence minister says we did very well in Istanbul, we had a political breakdown in Istanbul regarding joining the NATO alliance because all news, both media and formal and informal spoke of Croatia being invited to NATO. However, Croatia is not, as we know, invited to NATO, and given the fact that this agreement was signed by Mr Tus on behalf of the last government on December 15, 2003, it is obvious that governments are changing and politics really has continuity and that I agree with the defence minister. The question arises, and we have not received an answer whether this agreement was not ratified before the Istanbul conference affected the position of the Republic of Croatia in connection with the invitation to NATO. If there is nothing then the haste and emergency procedure now after the Istanbul Conference and the fact that the Republic of Croatia is not invited to join. A series of open issues and it is not possible to talk about NATO and not talk about the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia, about the disastrous situation in the armed forces, that it might even be said that we have a bankruptcy board at the Ministry of Defence and the fact and that, in addition to the fact, the situation is that despite the Assembly's conclusion, there are no documents on the situation in the armed forces. And without seeing the situation in the armed forces, there is no point in talking about NATO or signing such agreements. Why emergency procedure if there is no impact on the position of the Republic of Croatia after the Istanbul conference. I therefore personally think and argue that the ratification of this agreement should be delayed until we see what the situation in the armed forces is and until a decision is finally made on whether and when Croatia will enter the NATO alliance. This means that we are waiting for this debate which is now here for the first time exclusively we hear that there will finally be a debate on whether or not it will be said by the President of the Parliament that we are about to have a autumn debate, a broader public debate on the NATO alliance, and that's good. This was supposed to be three, four years ago before signing all these possible agreements because if we give them all these immunitys then they really have no reason to accept the Republic of Croatia into an alliance when they can normally come to us to practice, do what they want and start companies, have real estate and work with their money and be completely excluded from the Croatian legislative and political system. This is what we give them with this agreement and the answer to what we get from the Republic of Croatia and the Ministry of Defence which gets no such response and as one colleague said did not say well that the West protects its values, the West protects its interests. Where in this agreement are the interests of the Republic of Croatia, I would like to hear it from other than the principle we go to NATO, we must because they are us. There must be some particular interest. I would ask the Minister of Defence to explain to us representatives who do not understand ourselves and from the shadows we look to explain to us specifically what interest it is, what NATO's interest is clearly seen, full immunity and freedom of movement of work and exercise in the Republic of Croatia, which is the interest of the Republic of Croatia and when this interest will be achieved if we as representatives make this decision and that means we vote for ratification of such an agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u16105	Thanks a lot, buddy. We accepted the agenda and the vote to apply the emergency procedure. Each of the representatives shall be entitled to the right in accordance with his own conscience, to express his position in voting, in particular in relation to this proposal of the law. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the respected representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u16106	Mr. President, counterpart Jukic said completely incorrectly that Croatia had experienced a political fiasco in Istanbul. Namely, we also had the opportunity to hear the president of the NATO Assembly here in the Croatian Parliament who addressed members of the Committee on Foreign Policy and members of the Committee on Interparliamentary Cooperation and indeed Croatia was actually encouraged on its way and in its efforts and it is completely incorrect, just the opposite of what counterpart Jukic said in Istanbul and not what he might have wished for. Fortunately, our efforts are encouraged and what is most important is the date of a future conference to discuss accession.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u16107	Replica, the respected representative Krešimir Ćosic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u16108	Well, look, we still have to be satisfied with what's been said in Istanbul. For what? Six months ago, NATO had very strong arguments on the structure and structure of the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia, very solid arguments that were presented in Bruxeless, and in the Ministry of Defence, both at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and after several months of these remarks were removed. It was truly naive to expect that without three cycles of maps, Croatia could be invited to full NATO membership in Istanbul. It was only in Bratislava at the Parliamentary Plenary Assembly that clear signals were given to support positive reforms in the Ministry of Defence and the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia, and this was repeated in Istanbul. Gentlemen, we still have a lot to do and the recognition we got in Istanbul is an incentive for those results that have been made over the past six months because six months ago I said were very firm arguments and very firm remarks about some structural problems and restrictions in the structure of the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, when looking at this trend, it is clearly a positive trend and we hope that it will have its continuity in the next few years, by 2006. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u16109	Replica response, respected representative Vlado Jukic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u16110	I understand that fellow Cosic defends his party's policy, his government, which is understandable. However, I cannot agree with his claims. Of course, the process of joining NATO, which we are aware of, is long and not so easy. But for daily political purposes, it was presented quite differently, and I still argue that Istanbul was a fiasco. To talk about the process in the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia over the past few years and initiated by political justifications for NATO, to speak of it as a reform is not correct because it is not a reform, it is usually a reduction and a simple bankruptcy without order and in the end, it will be seen when we discuss the Status Report in the Armed Forces. And what I'm saying, you know very well, you're a high-ranking Croatian Army officer and you certainly know the situation in the Armed Forces, so please consider that, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u16111	Thank you. I've got Tony Tadic in writing. Is that on behalf of the HSP Club these five minutes? What? And that's the debate! Yes, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u16112	Your Honor, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Your Honor, Mr. Secretary. When the Agreement on the Status of Forces of NATO member states and the Partnership for Peace, which is otherwise called in international legal circles, has been ratified here... or SOFA. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I remember that this debate, however significant it was, was actually held in the House by only two MPs and only two clubs. So I spoke on behalf of the HSP Club and Mr. Joseph Torbar on behalf of the HSS Club. So much for this great importance of joining NATO, which is now being shown here. One of the key elements of NATO's entry is, of course, the status of members of the Armed Forces from the point of view of criminal responsibility for all acts that may eventually be committed in another country, in the recipient country. In which they are at a military exercise or stationed at one of NATO's military bases. And that is precisely what throughout the history of sending foreign forces to foreign military bases or joint military exercises, or joint military activities was slow. Throughout the history of the 20th century, this sought to regulate various mechanisms. One way is of course this... SOFA is trying to arrange all this together in a way that NATO forces actually have immunity in that country, where, while they perform official duties outside of military exercise, outside their military base, outside their daily duties, they are subject to Croatian laws, and they are particularly subject to members of their families, or civilians. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here with this additional protocol, it is actually going one step further and trying to introduce this immunity for civilian members, also counting on a single joint NATO military command and on Croatia's territory as needed. So, this whole agreement, I, Mr. President, exclusively maintain the content of this Agreement refers to the immunity of members of foreign military forces, and, of course, here it also relates to the immunity from paying taxes to the Republic of Croatia. So that's the point of the problem. I must mention here the fact that the article of this Agreement mentions paragraph 8, Article 8, of the Additional Protocol, which the Assembly ratified last year. It doesn't mean anything to most people, but it's actually an extremely important thing. That's where the arbiter is mentioned. So when you get... apply in any case so far, i.e. when similar agreements were applied to the US signed with other countries, whether they were Turkey or Japan. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's always a special law that was adopted in... any regulated who determines really whether the case in question is covered with... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] that is, immunity is applied to a foreign military personnel member or, nevertheless, it is something subject to domestic criminal law. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, it was resolved either by the arbitration panel for which there must be a special law and we do not have it either in an extrajudicial or open procedure over, by the Croatian courts for which again there must be a special law that Croatia does not have. In Britain, by bringing, or ratifying NATO, SOFU, the UK has decided that only British courts should determine whether the criminal act was committed during the conduct of the official duties and the commander's confirmation is considered final only if the British court does not show otherwise. In France, a special written statement by the commanders of the American or other forces is needed that they did not give up judication in the event of the incident. And then, of course, there's a heated diplomatic debate, so there's no automation or there's a mechanism to take or leave. It is also similar in Turkey, and there have also been cases of 56 clashes with the United States just to prove whether something has been done on official duty or not. The notorious case is a soldier named William Girard who accidentally killed a Japanese woman who strayed into a military exercise site in Japan, Okinawa. And there was also a whole race, although there was an appropriate military agreement, once again a special law was formed was an arbitration commission which through this special law determined whether it was something that covered the agreement and what was then the subject of immunity, or whether it was slow enough to go before the Japanese court. So when we talk about accepting NATO standards, then let us be so correct to ourselves and this nation that we also accept those NATO standards that other countries, NATO members, have, for example, I am thinking about, for example, the UK, Turkey and France, which regulate this arbitration specifically mentioned in Article 8(8) of the Additional Protocol, which we are now adopting the supplement. With all this, Croatia is in another particularly difficult situation. Here my colleagues mentioned the Dayton Agreement, it is an article of the 7th supplement of Dayton in which, in which it is said, gentlemen, these are serious things, in which it is said that SFOR forces are given the status of Peace Operation Conductors, therefore, not the singers, but the Peace Maker, so the implementation of peace but not only on the territory of Bosnia and Herzegovina but also on the territory of the Republic of Croatia, which means that they do not have to account for their military activities and that everything they do is considered an official duty. Not only in the territory of the BiH but also in the territory of Croatia. The issue, whether after the adoption of the SOFA agreement in Croatia with all protocols, is then still in effect by the Dayton SOFA, which applies to one NATO component, or one NATO operation. So, that answer, this Club of Representatives hasn't gotten all these years from signing the Dayton Agreement until today. And I doubt we'll get it from this ministry. And what's really the point. So what we're going to do is we're not going to apply all these protocols that we've ratified if one NATO operation, which is a NATO operation in BiH, we can't apply all these expensive documents, so we're going to continue to have a helicopter flying on hell's islands to shoot nudists from the helihoptera, so we're going to have a landing in Our Lady's field in Dubrovnik instead of Chilipe, so we're going to have pride on entering Croatia when members of the family of NATO's BIA commanders don't want to legitimize. So we'll have a hit on NATO's truck by grandfathers and grandkids in Karlovac when Canadian SFOR members pull automatic weapons, which they can do anything, of course. That's the terrible thing to do. They can do it all because they are covered by the genius Dayton Agreement signed by pre-existing genius power. That's what this is about. But the catch is that if, in the meantime, we ratified all these agreements that I expect Mr. Ministers to have these agreements concerning the relationship between Croatia and NATO and the NATO operation in BiH. That's all it's about. Or maybe in the meantime we became a colony, and yes, no one informed us about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u16113	Does the minister want it? No, I don't. I'm closing the debate. Final proposal of the Act on the confirmation of further additional protocol to the agreement between the States of the North Atlantic Treaty and other States participating in a partnership for peace on the legal position of their forces, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 121. The debate on the text of the law is over. The amendment was submitted by the Legislative Committee. I ask Defence Minister Berislav Roncevic to plead on the proposed amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u16115	Mr. President, the government accepts the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u16116	Thank you, it's becoming an integral part of the law. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? I find that, with 79 votes for and 6 against the proposed law in the text, as proposed by the Proposer, together with the amendment adopted. 4. Proposal for an Agreement on Cooperation between the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Macedonia in the framework of the approximation and accession of the European Union; The Proposer of the Agreement is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. The debate was conducted by the Committees on Law and European Integration. I would like to ask Mrs. Marija Buric-Pejcinovic, State Secretary at the Ministry of European Integration, to further explain the proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u16118	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished MPs and MPs. In accordance with Article 8. The law implementing the Stabilisation and Association Agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the European Community and its Member States, as well as the interim agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the European Communities and its Member States, has therefore provided the Croatian Parliament with the Proposal for a Cooperation Agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Macedonia as part of the approximation of the European Union. The Stabilisation and Association Agreement provides for a commitment in its Article 12 to conclude bilateral regional co-operation agreements with countries that have concluded a Stabilisation and Association Agreement with the European Community. At this point, it's only the Republic of Macedonia. Regional co-operation is recognised further in the European Commission's opinion as one of the areas in which the Republic of Croatia needs to strengthen its activities and is a conclusion, and the conclusion of this agreement would be one of the important elements that will also be the basis for this. The objective of this Agreement is to strengthen cooperation between the two countries towards a model that provides a Stabilisation and Association Agreement, and its main elements are political dialogue, the establishment of a free trade zone, the right to business creation, the mutual concessions related to the movement of workers, the provision of services and the movement of capital, cooperation in the field of justice and home affairs, and cooperation in the field of harmonisation of legislation. The Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Macedonia have already signed bilateral agreements in a number of areas such as free trade, cooperation in the fields of culture, science, tourism, transport and so on. And such an agreement will underline the mutual interest of the two countries in further promoting and deepening international cooperation and exchange of experiences. And as a conclusion, although the agreement on regional co-operation in the agreement underlines that the aim of both the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Macedonia is to bring the European Union closer and closer. I stress that a similar agreement was signed by the Republic of Croatia a month ago with the Republic of Bulgaria following the same chapter of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, its Article 14 on regional co-operation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u16119	Thank you. Do the Committee's rapporteurs want to? I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the Club of HNS-PGS MP Miljenko Doric.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u16120	Mr. President, Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! In front of the HNS-PGS Club at first, I must immediately say that we will accept this proposal of the agreement and what I will say please accept in one positive intention. I was not present for the session when we accepted such an agreement with Bulgaria, so allow me just a few brief comments. Above all, not only this one should be supported but every other bilateral agreement between our country and other countries in our narrow and wider environment, especially if, as you said, it would improve political dialogue, establish new areas of free trade, enable the free movement of labour, capital, provision of services and special cooperation in a number of areas. It is logical that the European Community is also interested in such cooperation for political, economic, social and other reasons, and therefore asks countries that have Stabilisation and Association Agreements. In this context, relations are further stabilised in the wider region through such agreements. Now the only question is, and that's why I called back as soon as it was a chicken or an egg? Whether we conclude this agreement because of the primary interest of the Croatian and Macedonian sides and the real wishes and the need for cooperation or to formally meet the criteria set by Europe for the final accession to the European Union. The way this agreement was written and intonated, that is the common pattern, I would say European, Council of Europe, EU and so on, it tells us, especially through those two introductory pages, that the European Union is our main objective and that the agreement is fully subordinated to it. If so, then the Government should have submitted to us, along with this proposal for an agreement, the comments, proposals and queries submitted to us by the European Commission services three months ago so that we, the parliamentary representatives, could see how well we have installed these observations in this Agreement. This would be logical if we could do so or at least if the committees had put these proposals on board, and the European Commission's initiatives that at least they as our professional working bodies could assess it. If, on the other hand, we were primarily concerned that the agreement really covered all areas of interest for the two sides, the Macedonian and ours, and that we would also meet the fundamental principles set by the European Community, then we could certainly have prepared an agreement and something different with a greater emphasis on this bilateral component, on what we and the Macedonians want to achieve through this agreement, and clearly that Europe would probably be very pleased with this agreement if it were to be much wider and include other areas. Third, one of my personal remarks, and no intervention, but I will give the secretary of state that material, namely in Article 10. The agreement mentions a general agreement on trade in services, so-called “GATS”. I think it would be a good idea to listen more carefully to what is happening to “GATS” in Croatia in the future because I would like to remind you that the European regions, through the European region's assembly last year, had a very strong attack on exactly “GATS” because they believe that local and regional communities should have much more freedom in this area than today this “GATS” and “WTO” suggest and suggest especially in the field of health, education where they do not want to accept the full commercialisation of these certain service activities. Finally another principled remark, inadmissible time for colleagues and colleagues to pass from initiative to the moment when such agreements, contracts come to our benches. Here we had a law on the establishment and work of the International Development Center... policies. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Nine full years have passed since Croatia's contact with this centre until this contract has come to our benches, although I say twice at the beginning of the year and now again this Agreement of the kind of reality seems to me for four years, and I think we all agree that Europe is being evaluated and based on how fast and efficient we are in solving these agreements and this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u16121	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HSS Club, Mr. Representative Bozidar Pankretic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u16122	Hawla beautiful Mr. Vice President. Madam Secretary of State. So maybe just a few sentences won't go away that the HSS Club will support this Cooperation Agreement because I think it's clear to everyone that this regional cooperation is extremely important and important. Which is why he first appeared on behalf of the club, and I want to point out that I don't know if he writes here, in the materials that the deal could be signed on June 14th, it's over. What I came forward for was Chapter Two, Economic and Trade Cooperation Article 6. Unfortunately I have to say something from experience without further such an agreement is necessary, we need cooperation with ours I would say a little further neighbours here it is about Macedonia. Because we have special interests. As you can see in Article 6 it is said that the Contracting Parties will consider the possibility of strengthening economic co-operation, and in particular seek to improve the follow-up in the following areas. So there are two listed crops and the food industry, especially wine production. I was going to, but given that you already signed it, you're going to use it to try some other channels, correct something that's been happening to us in recent years, and it's especially about an agreement on free trade that's been signed a long time ago. However, the slaves we saw in the work were large, especially as a result of the expansion of possible future economic co-operation, especially exports of agricultural food products to Macedonia. As the system is known under the Free Trade Treaty is based on certain quotas shared by the Government of the Republic of Macedonia. We've had some problems that we've had with these administrations, I'd say the obstacle, we've reduced the expansion of the enlargement here, and economic cooperation, so here in the context of support without further this cooperation agreement, I think it would be a good idea if, by means of my channels, I try sometimes when we sign these agreements, when we sign certain obligations that are made through the free trade agreement, we always try to suggest that some others I would say, administrative obstacles do not make it impossible for these economic co-operation, but that what would be nice in this agreement, even better co-operation with the state's bodies, so here's another request to pass it on to the fair.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u16123	Thank you very much. This exhausted the list of registered speakers. Does the Secretary of State want it to be final? Here you go. State Secretary Marija Boris Pecinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u16124	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice-President, so perhaps only briefly since there has been a talk on regional co-operation may be publicised on this matter in various ways and simply because of this clarification of things three perhaps points on regional co-operation. The first regional co-operation by the European Community is the basis on which the European community was created, so this has been its business principle since it existed. And that principle, of course, required in all accessions, the countries which are now new members also had to have a part on regional co-operation with them was within the framework of the ceft. what this Government does in certain regional cooperation recognize your interest and in this sense is actually in the last part where this government took part in the creation of this document, in such a way as to approach it. And why it was evaluated and that the agreement had been negotiated for four years was a stalemate and it had been before. The government took over the agreement as soon as it came and decided, knowing with an old Croatian interest, to sign such an agreement. And on the other hand, that is one of the conditions that has been on the table for Croatia for many years with the accession of the European Union. So this government immediately took over the agreement and decided to complete such an agreement. As regards that remark concerning why this agreement has the structure it has, namely if you look at the section on regional cooperation Article 12 of the basics that this is being signed. It is prescribed that this agreement will be on the principle of how the SAA was written. So these points of cooperation are the next points of the SAA. From political dialogue on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u16125	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u16126	Proposal for a Cooperation Agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Macedonia in the framework of the approximation and accession of the European Union. I'm voting on the next conclusion. A report on the negotiations on the cooperation agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Macedonia in the context of the approximation and accession of the European Union shall be taken into account. The proposal for an agreement on the participation of the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Macedonia in the framework of the approximation and accession of the European Union is hereby adopted. Please, who's in? Thank you. Against? Restraint? I find that, unanimously with 86 votes for the proposed conclusion, the report is proposed.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u16127	We move to - Final proposal of the Law on the Confirmation of the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of France on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of avoidance of payment of income, emergency procedure, proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, P.Z. No. 133; You have put the proposal into boxes, in accordance with Article 159. The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. The amendment may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Employment, the Committee on Finance, the State Budget, and the Committee on Economic Affairs, Development and Reconstruction. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? He doesn't want to. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. No one signed up for the debate on behalf of the club, Mr. Nenad Szazic. He's gone. He's losing his right to a ten-minute hearing. No one answered. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u16128	Final proposal of the Law on the confirmation of contracts between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of France on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of the avoidance of income tax avoidance. Emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 133. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Restraint? I find it unanimous with 87 votes to pass the proposed law.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u16129	We're crossing point six. - Final draft law amending and supplementing the Act on Special Taxes on Personal Cars, other motor vehicles, vessels and aircraft, with final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 124. And I suggest that we discuss, within this point, the final proposal of the Law amending the law on specific taxes on tobacco products, with the final draft law, the emergency procedure, first and second reading of P.Z. No. 123; and let us discuss the charges together. With club representatives entitled to 20 minutes of debate. Do we agree? Mr. Pecek, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u16130	Mr. Vice President, thank you very much. I suggest on behalf of the HSS Club that we have a separate discussion. This is about the same applicant and the same result that will fill the state budget with an additional 660 million kuna, but I don't see any other connection between these two bill proposals.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u16131	On behalf of the HSS Club, Mr. Agent Herman, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u16132	So let's also argue that these two points of the agenda come together. Ine have basically something in common but they're very important and I think a separate debate is simply necessary because it's in the nature of things to discuss matters separately. We'd just seem to be seeking some kind of rationalization that would be our own purpose. Nasuptor I think it's very important to devote enough time in that sense and separate points, and then that means one longer and wider debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u16133	Thank you. Two club representatives have declared whether they have any other opinions or support the merger. Most clubs support mergers, so we will continue both agenda points, with club representatives able to speak instead of 15, 20 minutes. So the bill was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and we have established the urgency of the procedure. You received the proposal by mail. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the Rules of Procedure, an emergency procedure unites the first and second readings of the law. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislatives, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget and the Committee on Economic Affairs, Development and Reconstruction. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? He does. Minister of Finance Mr. Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u16134	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of the council, God forgive me, MPs, there is before you a proposal for a law on amendments and amendments to the Law on special taxes on personal cars and tobacco products, and since the amendment of the Law on Special Taxes on Personal Cars was first on the agenda and let me go with it. So the government proposes this law to increase the fixed percentage by 3% points, and when looking at such a percentage, an increase in excise duty is proposed by 25% so that when we talk about the impact of this increase in excise duty and as regards tobacco processing and as far as personal cars are concerned, it depends primarily on how price formation will approach car representatives in Croatia, and as far as cigarettes are concerned, first of all. Their share will be in this price formation both in a smaller increase and in a higher price increase. What I would like to point out in this Law on Special Tax on Personal Cars is that in recent years, there has been a huge expansion of the import of passenger cars in Croatia, that the sale and purchase of passenger cars was one of the great external borrowing generators of the Republic of Croatia, because over two billion kunas were going to buy their own cars annually, it also affected the negative balance of payments of the Republic of Croatia. But what may be more important in this law, which is the proposals for amending and supplementing the laws relating to vessels where provisions are introduced which provide for tax exemption for vessels used for the purpose of carrying out registered activities which have not been explicitly prescribed by this law so far. This ensures effective control measures for non-compliance with the provisions of the law in question. That's where we can analoguely pull the parallel with the black charter that we're all talking about so much. Unfortunately, it is at this point a large both tax and economic problem of the Republic of Croatia, because I hope that this new Maritime Code will regulate the way in which vessels under a foreign flag will not be regulated, but will prevent them from carrying out economic activity in Croatian waters, because unfortunately at this point a large percentage of charters are out of control of all state institutions for the simple reason that the legislation has not been regulated so far and how the records and controls of imports of those vessels. It also provides for the payment of a special tax on the circumstances of chartering a vessel for sport, recreation and... other persons on the basis of a lease agreement. This law also proposes paying a special tax on vessels of up to 8 metres in length with an uninstalled and outboard engine, whether imported separately or together. According to the current law, taxation was done by importing a vessel separately, and the engine was imported separately, but on such vessels, you have engines worth up to 30-40 000 euros, but in a way you import a vehicle by one, and the engine per second has avoided paying special taxes. And since higher imports of passenger cars with rotational movement of plungers and imports of electric vehicles are assumed, it is proposed to prescribe a level of special tax for private cars with rotational movement of engines which are not new within the meaning of the law of a maximum of 50%, with other passenger cars on standard fuels an increase of 100% for cylinder circumference of more than 1600 cubic centimetres is prescribed. It is predicted that this way of increasing excise duties to the budget at the annual level should contribute to 220 million kuna more. As regards the specific tax on tobacco products, the proposal to amend this law goes in the sense of changing the level of specific taxes on tobacco products provided for in Article 9. The Special Tax Act. The change in excise duties on certain groups of cigarettes should result in multiple positive effects, and above all positive effects, fiscal effects and are expected to result in more than 440 million kunas per year with such increased excise duties on the annual budget, and as you have seen in the A Group proposal, these are the cheapest cigarettes, predicting a 10% increase in excise duties for the simple reason that these are cigarettes most often found on the black market, and this group of people who smoke and cigarettes tend to buy these cigarettes on the black market. Here I have to mention one problem with cigarettes, which is the problem of neighbours, which is Bosnia and Herzegovina who have not yet solved the excise duty problem in this way as Croatia has them. Their excise duties are far lower and normally open the possibility of a gray market, but within the next few days, working groups from the Ministry of Finance of the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Ministry of Finance of Croatia should meet, given that they are at the stage of introducing value added tax, and they are also thinking about adapting the excise tax law in a certain way to the laws that are in Croatia, and that we are changing the experience there and that we see in a certain way how to prevent cigarette smuggling. I must say that the Customs Administration has already taken certain steps by defining that only on certain customs transports can the export of cigarettes from Croatia be made, with the weight of the truck on its way out of the factory and on its way out, at the crossing of the border, because the simple revenues in the budget in recent years suggest that perhaps the market is the most present here. This is one of the first measures and I hope it will be effective.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u16135	Thank you very much, Minister. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. Is there any other committee that wants to take a word for it? There isn't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the club IDS Mr. Representative Damir Cain, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u16136	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, the Honorable Mr. Representatives. So HDZ came out with a guarantee card 6-7 months ago, and among other things, he promised to cut taxes. It was clear to me that, for example, because of some deficit in the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance, a reduction, for example, of contributions on that basis will certainly not come, but after this was adopted, I had even trusted the VAT Act for a moment that these taxes would be reduced. But now we see through this form of excise duty that it will certainly not happen. However, when tax policy is due, when these two laws are in the process, no proposals should be supported. Right, the central state deficit is high. I know that the state will not make a nominal reduction in the deficit in billions of kunas, and that is why this budget needs to be increased by about 2 and a half, 3 billion kunas in 2004 from 6.3%, if this IMF data is correct, it could be seen as a 4.5% deficit. Although this year, it is likely to be the same as 2003 nominally in billions of kunas. Therefore, as far as that is concerned, it is certain that the Minister of Finance should not be envied. He must find the money, he must clearly settle obligations, meet the agreement between Croatia and the IMF, there is no easy place to go. The IMF has not, as is often heard in public, blackmailed Croatia. We asked for the IMF's help, and for credit, and most of all for this country's credit rating. 1%, I don't know, interest rates more than $4 billion a year, as much as it takes Croatia, that's 40 million dollars a year, times 10 years, that's $400 million, and it's clear that there's so much support for this agreement. If you don't have an arrangement, then the IMF is dropping your credit rating, and the state without credit simply can't function. We have an external debt of $95 billion, it's likely to increase with the logic of the thing itself and in the future. I want to believe, not with this intensity, no matter what the government tries to do on the domestic market through these pension funds, it solves it. So, the point is to increase the budget and also to go over the excise fees by about two and a half to three billion kunas. And now one of the rescue solutions is found, and that should be excise duty, so on cars, or cigarettes. Looks like it's the easiest kind of profit. It is likely that the Croatian public will accept it as easily as possible. Smoking and driving simply must be done. It is, to be cynical, you may not need to, but to smoke and to drive. And now let's put aside health, lung cancer, funds for which home budgets are denied, but these messages will no one get rid of them if they're dependent. But this gathering clearly ultimately collects a union basket. And for that IDS simply can't be. The Ministry of Finance's thinking is probably logical. Maybe even at this point, I may have said, only possible, but it doesn't fit the security card mentioned earlier because it's a direct raise, not a tax reduction. A few days ago, I don't know, we talked about these benches of conflict of interest, we agreed that conflict of interest when a representative in a council of parliament or city receives 200 kunas of daily life, but it's not a conflict of interest when a factory forms, let's say, its municipal list where the country's main programme is divided. After her book was slowed down to hundreds of acres. Now, it's not a matter of rising to cigarettes, in my court, that 1 kuna excise duty, which the state will be revenueing from this year 200, perhaps 250, 300 million kuna, and in 2005, perhaps 600 million kuna. The problem is that the state first deprived that monopoly back in the early '90s. The problem is that cigarettes collect on their own, not just over excise duty. Which means we've got a cigarette-gathering right now for 1 kuna. Another kuna of excise duties goes to that, so there are various other taxes, etc. So by a pack of cigarettes already now or after the entry into force of this bill we can count on a 2 and a half kuna addition, times 30 days, it's going to be about 70 or 80 kuna a month. So if we multiply it by 12 then it's going to be about 800 kuna at the end of the year at least and one passionate smoker at least. On the other hand, our cigarette manufacturers earn enormous profits annually. Last year, TDR Ronhill billion and 50 million kuna. First of all, thanks to the monopoly and now in that monopoly on us, among other things, we need to look for this space to fill the state budget, not to collect excise duties. This year their monopoly will certainly be a billion and 200, perhaps a billion and 300 million kuna. Get on the other side, for example, Croatian banks, last year reach 2 and a half, 3 billion kuna and there should be some space for these extra profits, not in excise duties. The Croatian Telecom is supposed to be 2, maybe 3 billion kuna and there's plenty of room before it gets hit, say, in those excise duties. The excise duty means, we distribute, you can say freely, to all citizens of the Republic of Croatia or to all families, and the profit remains exclusively to individuals. So, I'm in favour of introducing a special tax on monopolies. This is how it turns out that through excise duties, the poor are taken, and the rich are left or guaranteed to accomplish even more. And that's who that policy from Alan Ford, when what's called, Superhip takes the poor and then gives it to the rich. I agree that there may be some logic in that, because it is the logic of neoliberalism in the Croatian way, but it re-determins additional Croatian society and in a literal sense those who have more will have more and less. Although at first glance of the state right through that taking of excise duties, to whom, those who have little return to those who, under quotes, have little. The IDS means, it proposes an inversion, tax the monopolies because it is not logical for the monopolies to make a billion, 2, 3 billion kunas a year, so that they are mostly beyond the borders of the Republic of Croatia. The more we know that almost every monopoly is politically programmed, entrepreneurial enterprise in every country and so is in the Republic of Croatia. If excise duties were used for, say, that social pension, for 60,000 citizens almost without existence, the legal proposal proposed by the SDP 7 or 15 days ago, we would vote for such a proposed excise duty. They would also vote in favour of excise duties if it were certain that on all roads, schools, etc., children or young people aged 12 to 25 would be controlled, but clearly the budget must be higher in order for the deficit to be lower and to meet the commitments. It will probably work in due time and tax presses, it will probably pull higher and higher rebalances and profits from HT, privatisation will live, etc. It is not a clear situation, however, which is then, with tax cuts being declared because it should be recognised that in the period 2000 to 2004 it was in some way in action and that taxes have been significantly reduced. Profit tax from those 35%, 99% was reduced to 20%, income tax at various rates was also reduced, contribution to pension disability insurance from 21.5% was reduced if I did not cheat to 20%, contribution for the Croatian Health Insurance Office was reduced from 18% to 15% and now we are in a situation to raise excise duties which will cost only one average smoker at least 800 kuna per year more than those same cigarettes paid a year earlier in 2003. Surely that cigarettes damage, there is no dispute, are the biggest culprits of cigarettes for this particular health deficit, that is the attitude of some countries, that excise duties on cigarettes do not cover the damage that they themselves do in the health system every year, but once again I will say there are perhaps mechanisms that could come to this money if monopolies were taxed. What to say about cars, some 200 million kunas should be made available annually. In view of the growth in silent excise incomes, cars were the most expensive excise duties in the last year. I said the seas, 2004 or 5, will also be introduced at least 70, 80,000 cars, but what I would suggest here is that all together or above all, the government will try to do everything to open up a car spare parts factory in this country and that, through such a way, some of these imports are compensated by exports. Once again IDS will be against, today cigarettes, cars, tomorrow there will be something else, alcohol, beer, gasoline, the day after tomorrow maybe some other tax and it certainly isn't right. This approach of mine, as I express it, may not be the correctest, although it is against surely a pragmatic attitude, to be against me, I mean, it does not harm the national interest, although I am also aware that the policy that is worse for anyone in the opposition cannot be a policy of serious people and that certainly there will be no IDS policy, however, no matter what, I do not think at this time of introduction of such fees. I know there's no one to take at this time, the army if I'm not wrong in this year's budget is limited to some 3.6 billion kuna, so never less. Police 3.2 billion kunas, too, never less, but being a simple respect for election promises. And it's not that it didn't know in 2003 what the deficit was, it's not that it didn't know what the problems in these public finances were, and that's why this IDS discussion should first be seen as an effort to make the campaign the most real.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u16137	Thank you very much. On behalf of the SDP Club, Mr. Representative Mato Church.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u16138	Dear Mr. Vice President, esteemed ministers with colleagues from the Ministry of Finance. We can understand the problems of the budget, but under these conditions the SDP will be against increasing excise duties both for cars and for cigarettes. Three groups of reasons. The first group of our reasons is in the following, there are undoubtedly serious issues and serious problems in the budget. Open issues of economic policy and development policy, projects late, or delayed, there are no new ones, etc. Under such conditions, a man would expect the government to appear with some measures and proposals in the weighty parliament, but the government comes with an increase in excise duties on cars and cigarettes for which I can have a lot of understanding but unfortunately, and the increase in excise duties will bring very questionable effects financially but all others and in fact it is quite a side effect of what the Government is proposing now in a situation where it should come with proposals which, on a broader scale, would mean something more to Croatia. However, I can say that the results we have achieved in the first five months, as read today by the Prime Minister, are still the results of the measures of the Racan government's economic policy. The current government's economic policy measures will take place, i.e. the effects of the current government's measures will take place at the end of the year and in the following year. Econometrically, it has been very precise that it is minimum 6 months for some measures to be activated. Obviously, these trends passed over this year and inherited by this government by the former government are positive and they are now continuing. Although earlier it was claimed that the situation of economic depression was inherited. But what will be further at this point is open because objectively we do not get proposals and solutions that would mean something more important in relation to the budget. I actually want to say this at the moment when Croatia became an official candidate for the European Union, the Government should prepare and at this time come to Parliament with 5 fundamental proposals for procedures, strategic documents and policies, projects and mechanisms for their achievement. It is that at this point we should have a national development plan with the Croatian priorities that work in the European countries for 6 years 3+3 that we need very much, we need a policy structure with projects to withdraw money from the European Union, and the money will not withdraw these entrepreneurs asked about this morning by Vice-President Adlesic, then we should export a policy that stood at 56 measures that could compare with all possible textbooks of people from the HUP. In fact, regional expansion, winning the market, supporting our businesses in winning these markets, we don't realize, we need a policy of industrialisation, regional policy, etc. In fact, I would like to say only one strategy and policy in the new conditions in which Croatia is going to Europe, which refers to the strategic fundamentals of Croatia's development within the longer term. The science policy and the university's activities as well as fiscal policy can be based on, and then excise duties. For themselves in a situation where Croatia today and the Croatian budget, these excise duties are currently almost no solution, and the question is, what do they mean by other grounds? So these excise duties don't solve the problem of budget income. Until you see what else is going to happen, you can't even tell what it means. There are indications look, there are indications, tax reform is announced, which is quite dangerous if you don't know exactly what you want, because with the tax system now, entrepreneurs, or citizens, or foreigners have no objections. And any changes in the system in particular to reform, it sounds very difficult to cause a major disturbance and immediately stops certain activities. Elimination of benefits for taxpayers is announced. I will now say my opinion what and is only an opinion at this point, but as I see the problems of the budget. These problems can lead to much stronger measures than these excise duties on cars and tobacco, it is very mild water. The problems of the budget can lead us to come to order and to grow fuel costs, and to increase healthcare participation due to the limitations of services due to problems that are not being solved there. and possible elimination of VAT zero rates and wage freeze and some more, as the problems of physics and economic policy are, to this extent, openly that they will need such measures. So, in that situation, we're constantly playing with car excises and tobacco, and I don't see any particular effect. So here's the first one. It is only from the overall approach of the wider strength that Croatia needs now that we can make solutions for both budget and excise duties and... this is how I see that we will deal with the budget again and again in the autumn. And we're actually on the surface all the time. The second group of our reasons is next. Gentlemen, the questionable effects of these excise duties are both fiscal and total. Here's what I mean. Banally, the simplest thing to say is, however we increase the rates on these excise duties is actually the amount we collect is more and less constantly the same. Because there are side valves, especially on that belly of Croatia towards Bosnia and Herzegovina, that soft border. And as these excise duties increase especially in cigarettes, so will the smuggling increase dramatically. and the question of the final effect on the budget. But let me say it first for the cars. Look, in the last few years, there's been a bigger import of cars, and it's basically on top of all the facts that we don't have to be happy with, it's not bad. The average age of the car is 10.5 to 11 years still in Croatia at this time. More today. On top of that, people have imported smaller cars, more modest, but quality, with 100, 120 euros a month, they pay their car. The accidents are so much and so on all our roads. Is that just a negative? Second, there's a stronger impact on smaller cars here. So, citizens who need, who today car is not a luxury that needs cars anyway and take more modest, smaller cars will now pay a much larger increase in excise duties. We propose an amendment that for cars up to 1000-1200 cubic metres and up to about 150 thousand kuna values, so manufacturers plus customs do not increase excise duties. It's just, look, here we heard a debate on the board of colleagues from HDZ, who has money for small cars and cigarettes there's also excise duties. Or who buys the car hires Italians, Germans, Japanese, etc. However, a small car is a direct need, and the government has no right in its proposals to constantly contribute to the rich who always manage, the poor are constantly hit and unable to cope and it confirms one proposal for the other who is coming and this is the case with the car. Besides, it's possible to say this in a car. In the long run, American professors begin their lectures in fiscal policy. Metal pets, or cars, are the most important and secure source of budget filling. And when you slow down your car purchase, then you slowed down your budget in the long run from what you give in fuel to the state, which is two-thirds of the price of fuel, to registration, insurance, taxes, now and ecological in our country, and a lot of other things. So the cars and the number of cars in the country are key to filling the budget. You're pressuring yourself to reduce the import of cars, actually using old cars, undermining the basis for collecting revenue in the budget. On the other hand, the fact is that Croatia's geostrategic position is not valorised. Don't worry about it, because there aren't any of those strategic policies we're talking about. And that, in fact, without traffic, without transport in general, etc., and then cars and all that's about it is not feasible. My colleagues and colleagues in cigarettes have a very dubious effect, because smuggling is dramatically increasing as excise duties increase. and the question, is it possible to trust him to that extent? In addition, it is important to say this, this increase in the price of cigarettes would be acceptable in that it acts on less smoking, on human health. But actually, stimulating smuggling through higher excise duties stimulates and smokes, because in psychology, it's known that I smoke cheaper and I can do it, because I do it through smuggling, than official cigarettes cost. But neither the price of cigarillos, cigars and other products is covered. So it's all in that sense from the point of view of the effects questionably. And the third group of reasons we have in mind are next. It's about how we make tax payments on a variety of grounds, including excise fees. And what are the other sources of income in the state budget? Look, I was impressed by the fact that Mr. Honorable Minister Shucker said on several occasions that it is possible in the existing situation in the Croatian budget for better tax discipline, better organisation of the tax administration, etc. provided at the given parameters, with instruments 6 billion kuna higher. It's been repeated multiple times, and that would be good, and that should actually be pursued, so what we have to do is make it a better charge. And in fact, not so much just raising the rate and there's the weight. Now I'm asking, what are we, did we make it, did we make it, did something happen in that direction? Which one of those, please, bought the jaguars and yachts in the fairs, which he said, was said to pay the tax, which of them has paid the tax in the last six months? Then, we had these pictures of the curves, the excise charge that this curve was supposed to pop up in summer, etc. We'll see how much that is, but I would support any effort of that kind before the rate itself increases. And to add, in particular, in the situation in which Croatia is to consider the entire source of budget revenue. The latest data for 2003 show a very large increase, the largest compared with many European countries and transition countries of business, institutions, finances, sectors and many others that actually make a monopoly profit in Croatia. This was particularly expressed in 2003, and now it is time for us to imagine over it, the more a significant part of that profit is being poured abroad. It's not just about monopolies, it's about concessions and certain environmental taxes, but it's also about thinking about the property tax and making more income for those who are rich, etc. rather than strike evenly with excise duties on those who import Clio and other cars. So, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Minister, we understand that the growth of excise duties is special to some like these, etc. It can make sense in conditions that exist but in these circumstances, in which we do not actually see what the skill is in which there is no broader approach to solving the problems that exist in the budget, etc. We think that only the increase in these excise duties at this point is not financial and otherwise it will not help or solve anything important and therefore we will be against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u16139	Thank you very much. There is one correction to the incorrect allegations, Mrs. Ivana Sučec-Tracostanec.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u16140	Yes, Mr. Vice President, it is an incorrect assumption that this is a low-priced blow to cars, because this table itself in Article 6 and in absolute terms and in percent says that the percentage is also on the rise compared to the price, so it is 10% for those up to 50 thousand, 12.5% for 100 thousand, 15% for 150 thousand and thus rises in proportion to the price of the car and the percentage and the absolute amount that is allocated to the excise duties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u16141	Thank you very much. Minister Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u16142	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament! I deliberately didn't want to talk about some things in the budget, I think there's been a lot of talk about it here, and I wouldn't want to pull some stuff again today. But talk about big proposals that have weight in the broader plan, as the esteemed colleague of the Church said, not to mention that certain things still have to be put down at the lowest level. I have to say, at the end of 2001, in 2002, I don't know who it was in the interest of the excise duties being transferred from tax administration control to customs control. Sadly, this service today counts with letters and figures of two men dealing with this problem. The department has been turned into a department, so to the lowest administrative organisational level. In the past years, excise duties have only been carried out by people who have dealt with the meaning of records, not the sense of control, because simply by their organization there is no service that will walk the field and control it all together. So it's also incorrect that I was talking about 6 billion. It was said about 3 billion when it came to VAT collection, but I didn't want to speak in the opening part for the simple reason maybe some things shouldn't be withdrawn. However, if the sources of income that participate with more than 10% in the original budget of the Republic of Croatia give importance to transferring only two people from the tax administration who have been educated, who have been involved in this business for years if you have not been involved in the education of these people who should be able to address this problem best indicates how much attention this has taken. I am still saying that the biggest problem of the public finances of the Republic of Croatia is, above all, the revenue side of the budget which unfortunately is not given enough attention over the past periods. But it's very interesting that rhetoric is always the same. All that's good and so will probably be and the next few years will be the consequence of some other government and all that's wrong is the consequence of a government that's been a few months. So it is said that the positive trends are the consequences of the policy of the previous government that no one is slowing down, but here we are two or three months ago on the left side of this house were also convinced by Croatian citizens and the Croatian public that insolvencies and insolvencies exist in Croatia. That was the consequence of this government. If these positive trends are the consequence of the former government, if they are positive economic movements, then how can these negative trends be the result of this government which, in turn, were invented because they were the result of all those unpaid works that occurred last year. So, at no point did the government dispute to say that the consequence of these two amendments to the law is primarily fiscal and it is also precisely known why and as far as excise duties on oil products are concerned, the former Prime Minister himself said that they were intending to raise excise duties on oil products to solve certain problems in the budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u16143	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the HDZ Mr. Representative of Šima Prtvenjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u16144	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! Of course, each party and so does the individual in its debate make those arguments that it considers to have a greater effect in the public. And that's why I didn't think I had to start with a single thought from a fellow Churchman with a logic about what's really worth in the people, he says, "My success or our success is my success, and our failure is yours.", i.e. translated when it is said that in six months of positive effects that can now possibly be felt, I am not entering that sector, we will have time to report when it is, of course, this just as a prelude to think, that these positive effects are the result of the previous government is probably a good deed. Of course there is a phase and a process in which there is harmony, there is no doubt. But that's why it's not exactly the part of the story we were listening to at the last session or earlier, and probably the part today. Therefore, both success and failure are divided at the same time and on certain effects at different levels, or on two governments. Why? So it certainly is that those data that we have heard, especially lastly, bilely from all sides of the height, are at least at least approximately accurate data, especially around the deficits, given the compliance phase with the IMF. For this reason, especially the actuality and signature of the agreement for these doubts of the year, the current year, of course, in which the deficit needs to be brought to a certain level. Of course, it came from the external debt, the payment and balance position of the Croatian state and everything that is important that it can either act on economic stability, thereby also financially revising the Croatian state in the world frameworks so that it can move forward. Here, in that sense, when certain data have occurred and we have accepted this agreement, so it's not "visi maur" but we have to carry out the part of the commitment and try this deficit of consciousness in relation in this year, now we mention again, whether size worked four, four and a half but well, anyway in that border each operation is individually unpopular, certainly especially when touching any interest in any case that it has its negative effects. In this sense, any operation is undoubtedly and fiscally, and it has a reflection and should reflect on the filling of the state budget. But of course, in this balance of income and the balance of retaining certain social rights and other expenditures that we want to keep in that balance that we need to reach into this part of the area. We also think it's... The tax reform needs to be reviewed by the situation of the monopolies as well as the particularly extra profit that comes with different basics in the Croatian state by listing any banks and any other institutions and also in this sector that we have here. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But this does not mean in any way a threat to anyone but a simple grip in this area that can finance the public needs of the Croatian state for the sake of needs and those that act and work in this space. Here is the point, and other reasons are, of course, listed and we believe that they are not insignificant regardless of what may be present, so short-term and possibly long-term effects. However, every year, fiscal policy coordination is carried out, so I believe that everything can be coordinated in the coming year, that is, in the budget with that year. That in this way, however, at least a little coordination or some reduction of imports, and we know on what basis. And we know very well that lying in banks has become a very profitable business that can also have a certain effect, as well as drug dealers operating in our space because one of the sectors is most interesting. And as much as we cry over our own, and we're all drivers, over these citizens, at the same time, we have to find a business control instrument and these systems that make such profits. But let me go back for a while and here in this debate and story. Taxation of cars, boats and everything that goes on, aircraft etc., is regulated by the Law on Special Taxes, and of course this is now a proposal to supplement this Act which we would keep with the car 8 classes the size of the class is formed by 50 thousand kuna, from 0 to 50th and so in order to 8th grade. Until now, a fixed amount and a relative amount applicable to each group has been prescribed. The first group of up to 50 thousand kunas had only a relative amount of 10% tax and had no fixed amount. The other groups had their fixed amount and I will not reproduce it, there is no need here, but I will present this proposal as an example of the progressive growth of the fixed amount in the taxation of each group and the linear growth of the relative amount of 3% on average per group as applied. And so from the first to the next fixed-rate group on the first group is still zero, there is no fixed tax, special tax on the first group. On the second group is the difference, the nominal, 1500, the next is 3, then 4.5, then 6, then 7.5, then 9, then 10.5 thousand kuna. So, growth on each of these groups. The relative amount used in this calculation is 3% per group. Of course, on that group of 50,000 kuna, the first one, 3% is the smallest amount, and on the last group at 3%, at 350,000 kuna and beyond, of course, carrying along and a much larger amount recalculated it all together and added to that nominal amount that we showed in the first situation. Therefore, the direct and indirect effects of such taxation are thought to give a short-term effect in the budget and that in this way we can influence, affecting the calming of the financial and economic situation in this year. Just a remark when it comes to old cars, most of us also drive old cars, although we've been foretold, called everyone in this hall, and at least possibly, or at least of us are using such a position, then we can also say that they're not exactly data that the most car is 10, 11, age or how many, so all accidents are out of it. The assessment and experience, and of course, depends on the roads, that one third is about the driver, the road, or the car. Therefore, this argument in this situation could not remain. What is necessary in taxing ships to point out and boats, it seems to me that this division of cabins and half cabins may, as experts say, have nomtechnically to experience perhaps a milder or sharper definition of knowing exactly the division, because I personally know from the experience that the greatest failure to collect incomes, the financial taxing of ships I have experienced in this sector. We haven't actually been able to establish him. And that's one of the reasons why the state's going to have to catch a fleet acharter is a special story. And I think by the end of the year we need to find a way in the common interest, a national to try and regulate it. So I also hold that this taxation of boats can also be acceptable in this way by making sure that the definition of what is the cabin, the half cabin so that we don't get on a three-metre boat if it has a half-meter or a half-metre cabin, which is going to be difficult to define this specifically by pointing out because there was a debate about it. At this stage at this point, I think we can discuss it today and accept it that way. Of course, we who don't smoke can discuss this more easily, but again I represent a certain part of the public change and we believe that this kind of taxation in these three groups also achieves certain effects, undoubtedly in the first group, in the case of cars, boats and aircraft somewhere around 220 million kuna and in this group somewhere around... It's about the kuna. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But it would probably be good for this session, as well, to still be the result of this and the budget rebalancing so that we could discuss exactly in these sect areas and shorten the discussion in which areas it is going. Therefore, cigarettes also achieve this part of fiscal, but the other part, unequivocally, and finally, if we want health because all measures can't produce results and these stories about the hollow border eventually, and I guess other public services and others should act, it would be almost like we're not using any food or other product from the risk of smuggling or importing. Unfortunately, there are also the most in these sectors. So oil and oil derivatives, including many other areas, gold, for example. And so on and so forth. It is therefore that this very market responds to either the export market, whether the import market, the smuggling and the rest react to it. But this could not be an argument that at this point, the area in this situation is not affected, where the area has a significant fiscal capacity in the country. On the other hand, it is necessary to coordinate and take advantage of this opportunity and to harmonise this part of the provision which is also related to the payment, i.e. the right to return, because so far we can say that there was room for interpretation. And as soon as it's interpreted, then, of course, it's not easy to enforce those laws. And on the other hand, synchronising payment traffic with already passed laws in this House. So this cigarette grip also affects a, b and c group in the amounts shown here that we hold to be acceptable and any other criticism, of course it is possible, I repeat again, each of the variants and new options, but the criticisms in the sense that they affect the width of the largest population either in smokers or cars do not stand because it is clear and visible that in this part it is both progressive and partly linear in the part where they make up a smaller amount. That's why we at HDZ suggest accepting or adopting this, this particular tax, or these changes that would have taken effect right now, but there's one doubt, I'm not a smoker, but I've heard from my colleagues say these days, here's the merchants already come up with the misery, of course they know I'm here and they say how you've already introduced excise duties from the first one. And he says it's about exactly the amount that's already in the law. You see how easily they adapt to the situation and that points to the problem of smuggling and others. Surely there will also need increased control because the example of the control of cigarettes exhibitors and other spaces used of course to be used is immediately trade and everything else that we are very easy and efficient artists come up with before the law is passed and entered into force. So, as far as I can see, I can't confirm that that's what's going on. Thank you very much, and we will support this.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u16145	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the HSS Mr. Representative Željko Pecek.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u16146	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. We at the HSS were looking for a separate debate on these two legal proposals. We simply feel that this is not the way to go over the important issue. Finally, 660 million kunas are how difficult these two legislative proposals are according to projections. We just wanted to avoid this debate where we hear the flat-rate accusations and where we hear the crackdowns between the former and current government, or we don't hear what we should hear the most here, and what it means is this bigger budget, which means whether or not we can act on a smaller deficit, whether we can finally achieve some savings in that budget and more focus the money on development, and less on consumption, or I would like to remind you that we in HSS have advocated increasing certain tax revenues and in this way, but we should also suggest that the VAT rate be reduced, especially in that sector called food and which is called agriculture, or so that the standard of citizens through greater purchasing power is increased. Of course, there's no talking about it here. There's not a word here about the need that we've advocated to go into further economic releases. We know that we are uncompetitive, we know that taxes and income contributions are too high, but we don't talk about it today. Of course, we won't talk about it because in an hour, the goal is to get this topic out of hand, and to be deep in the citizens' pocket, and directly in this way, in the simplest way, of course we won't talk about it enough, but nothing at all. I have to admit that in some ways, I'm roasting my conscience when I read that we're just the most expensive cars actually being bought because our citizens aren't as rich as we want to present these amendments to the law. On the contrary, they want to replace an old vehicle and buy something that allows them to receive it. The other day I read a study of the correctness of the shock control published by the media on a relatively large sample of 3,000 cars. That research suggests that 60% of the vehicle has an invalid single shock absorber. - or 25% of the vehicle has all four shock absorbers broken. The average age of these cars was 12 years. This average age differs only by one year from the average age of the car in Croatia. Of course, such vehicles have a longer back road. Of course they have great instability in bandages and, of course, their brakes and everything else are in a very similar state to the shock absorbers. Here we have the proponent's arguments: we need to fill the state budget, we need to reduce the import of new cars. Which is the argument that we have to reduce the import of new cars to me it's completely unclear and I'd like to ask here for an additional explanation. Is that how we're going to reduce the trade deficit? Well, of course we won't because we don't produce cars, and that would be the goal and subject of the promoter or government to try and, of course, it's unobstructed to organize car production, but it's possible to organize a cluster of car spare parts, so let's try to do some counterproducts if we have large imports to try something and increase exports. A particularly funny finding here in reason is actually as if it was written by the opposition to the car tax where it says actually citizens are guilty because the state is over-indebted. They're guilty, of course, because they don't have any cash, so they had to take cars on credit. But our role here should be quite different. To guarantee these citizens employment, to guarantee them the benefits of course that are greater than inflation, that those receipts are real, are actually growing so that they can return those loans that they had to take away from me uninterruptedly. And it is generally known that citizens are most regularly repaying loans and I am not looking at their guilt for this phenomenon that we have spoken so aloud in the light of this Law. Finally last year we imported 75,000 cars, and this year 10% less. And there's something going on. That old thesis exists whether a car is a need or a luxury. It's probably going to turn out to be a luxury product this time because we're increasing taxes, we're increasing gasoline. He went up 18%, so we took him down by 1% yesterday. We're increasing tolls. Of course insurance will also raise its prices and the car will become a luxury precisely for small citizens in, in the Republic of Croatia. We stand in the HSS for larger, more appropriate imports, we advocate the restoration of the rolling stock because too much on our streets and on the roads we meet cars that are 20 years old and over. However, other than these things in the Bill's proposal, there are some other solutions that are at least original with the promoter, so it is not unusual for a citizen to import a 8m-long vessel and not buy a motor, and he has to pay the tax as if he were with the vessel and imported the engine. In any case, the solution is more than original. It is even better to clarify that there are no standards to distinguish vessels with a semi-cab cabin so that they are offered equal levels of the specific tax. This is the original solution anyway, because what would they do to me? Better let the citizens pay on a bigger base whether they took the cabin or not. However, of course, in this area of the vessel we have additional opportunities to increase special taxes and vessels are more luxury than it is a car. In the case of taxes relating to cigarettes or tobacco products, we at HSS are committed to equating such criteria with European experiences, however, of course in one system when we increase taxes and excise duties, but at the same time I emphasise reducing VAT, reducing taxes, reducing contributions. But here we haven't heard from the minister how much total revenues are based on the sale of cigarettes and tobacco, we haven't heard the estimates of how much income is lost because in this area there is an illegal market, and we also haven't heard how much additional income can be expected on the basis of those, I would call them budget promises that we will charge these taxes more effectively because it's even known that here now during the tourism season we won't have a rise in income exactly any of the VAT on cigarettes. But we here also have the original solutions about this bill where we will especially sanction those small ones who have a possible shock of two cigarettes, don't give Christmas that they sell it and we will reduce the fines. Article 6 of the Proposer states that the number of 40,000 is replaced by 500. So we're reducing the fines to 500 kuna. And the maximum penalty with two million is replaced by a million. It's also a grizzly solution because we're reducing the fines for those who sell cigarettes on benches instead of putting maximum fines, especially for those who deal with large cigarette smuggling, who every day we read to the media about black imports of cigarettes on booters and otherwise worth several million kunas. However, they will obviously pay the fines of pi this solution less, because in Croatia there is probably no cigarette cricket and it is not a phenomenon that should concern us. Something about a proposal he's already heard here today. And that's a monopoly. Namely, what happens here with cigarettes in Croatia. Monopoly brought back two billion 347 million kunas to those involved in the production of cigarettes in Croatia. At the same time, they paid a profit tax of 465 million kuna on the basis of this monpola. And here, citizens will pay 440 million kuna, if it's the correct assessment of the finance ministry. So how many monopolies within the deadline of a year have he paid taxes on profits and at the same time he has two billion kkuns left, so much will he pay the citizens. Or something to those peasants who work in the production of duan in Podavina and Slavonia because the bricks are known that we actually consume enough tobacco for our needs, and 60% are implanted in domestic cigarettes and the rest is exported. The value of tobacco production in Croatia is 120 million kuna each year. Of these 120 million kunas, 50 million kunas are paid by the state in the form of premiums, and 70 million kunas of monoplosite that are processed from cigarettes. It's not hard to calculate that in relation to the tobacco that pays that it only gets 7 to 8 times that. So here's more expensive here is a Robin Hood taking the little ones in a new way and the little ones are, of course, citizens who can't deny that vice like me. And it's going to take every day when they come to the kiosk to pay an extra two kunas or 90 to 1000 kuna a year, so that all of this is as obvious as it is so far. Well, at HSS, we suggest that it not be as it has been. That if it is a change in the specific taxes as well as in cars, as well as in tobacco processing, at the same time, to say how much that money will be spent, but equally, to say how indirectly through other measures I am stressing through the reduction of VAT, by reducing additional taxes and contributions to the economy, we will charge that one and the other sector. Otherwise this will all end if today. Because of the need to spend in a budget that's too big. We're gonna raise our hand, and the new 660 million kunas are gonna go up in the state register. We've heard from HTA everything will pull two billion kunas of profits they have from the previous years. We drivers will pay another 100 million kuna through violations. And these projections tell us obviously about three billion kunas, I hope that something and the minister will through better charge rewards here in the budget. Over three billion kuna increases in the budget. Whether it's true or not, I'm just guessing I'd like to hear it here. That's why I'm asking the minister to tell us if this is exactly what we're reading in the media. Are these measures being prepared because you would not want to discuss the budget when we passed these laws. And I don't want to hear the answer, that this is just the beginning, and through tax reform in the fall, we'll solve everything. That's what I heard about VAT, so we said it's the first step we cut from 22 to 20%, but after a month and a half I heard it wasn't the first step, but from it we're giving up PDVE remains 22% but we're waiting for tax reforms. Ma'am, we've already developed tax reforms through these tax changes. But to conclude, I'm going to drag my hand deep into a pocket of citizens who are absolutely nothing to blame for this situation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u16147	Thank you very much. I shall inform you that Article 207(2) is in accordance with Article 207(2). The Rules of Procedure have expired time to report a 10-minute hearing. Correction of the incorrect allegations, respected representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u16148	Mr. President-in-Office, I am correcting Mr. Pecek's incorrect allegations that these funds will increase budget spending. That's incorrect. FROM these funds, the deficits you've made in the past government will be met.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u16149	Dear Representative Dragutin Lesar corrects the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u16150	So when fellow Pecek spoke of a monopoly in tobacco production, he used a multitude of monopolists. Since Croatia has only one cigarette manufacturer who has a state monopoly with only one state monopoly, which is what Minister Shuker knows, A greeting from Rovinj. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u16151	On behalf of the Libre Club, Honorable Representative William Herman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u16152	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. First, something about this bill of amendments and amendments to the law on special taxes on personal cars. And so on. Therefore, the proposed amendments and additions of the law to the proposal's intention are aimed at changing height or increasing the level of the specific tax when taxing new and used personal cars. Special taxes on private cars shall be paid according to the fixed amount payment model, according to the belonging of the subject matter of taxation, by an individual of the price classes or the basics of the prescribed law and by the percentage of the amount of the amount of the part of the rates of the subject matter above the upper limit of the previous price class. These proposed amendments have also been made, as the applicant says, both in the fixed part and in the percentage. With an average increase in the fixed part and a percentage of the tax of all the rating classes of the statement sets at 25%. But it seems to us that the proposal would be better, and we are joining this very proposal, which says that the first class is pictured in paying taxes on cars as a right or a excise tax, not at all obliged to have that amount of up to 100,000. It's those cars that buy most of the time. It is also said that slowing the exceptional growth of imports of passenger cars in recent years would result in a decrease in trade deficits. And impacted the positive external trade position of the Republic of Croatia or the improvement of its balance sheet position. As with the proposal to amend a special tax, what I will say afterwards on tobacco products, and here in this case there is a basic intention, which is to cover there is no doubt of an extremely large budget deficit in the current year, with a modus of additional circulation of citizens when buying said products. The above changes, though, aim to strengthen the level of fairness of this tax, this justice under quotes. Since the amendments, he says, seek to further strengthen the character of taxation towards economic strength, which means that buyers of expensive cars would carry a higher tax burden in relative and absolute terms, but that is only relatively accurate. So there's a serious illusion. The fiscal revenues to the proposed change on this basis could grow by around 220 million kuna per year. By observing this, it is not uninterestingly complementary systems mainly of the European Union countries that we can notice that the policy of taxation of passenger vehicles differs significantly in terms of membership in this euro area. The more and the more the solution in the national system on this matter is fairly dispersive and diversely structured, and therefore the European Commission has sought to take measures to increase the coordination of legal rules concerning the taxation of personal vehicles, setting as one of the possible criteria for determining the level of tax and the harmful emissions of carbon dioxide released into the atmosphere by certain types of cars. Isn't that an inspiration?- I'm sorry. Additional differences are also evident in the context of the country of origin of a particular car due to the existence of permanent safeguards that go in favour of the common European market against US or Asian producers. What can the Proposer say about that? However, what we have is the absence of a national automotive industry and in this context and the sense of the need to protect the eye or stimulate such a branch of production. Therefore, despite the potentially positive fiscal effects, it would be necessary to target lower tax burdens on citizens when buying passenger cars and other vehicles, i.e. by establishing different criteria for taxing the same, but what is most important in our court. These tax burdens do not have a number of direct effects on domestic production and other socio-economic impacts but are undoubtedly subject to criticism, that type of criticism which will say that there must be no additional tax burden on citizens due to the reduction of the tax deficit, instead of finding appropriate economic development strategies and strengthening entrepreneurship as a moderator for the overall development and raising of the standard of living, the employment of citizens, or reducing the unemployment rate. As far as this second bill of law, or popular tobacco, is concerned, it is clear that the proposaler's intention is to increase tax levels and cover the obvious budget deficit, and this does not reveal any hot water. But the explanation that this will achieve a halt in the growth of the delivered and imported cartons of cigarettes abroad as an expression of alleged concern for public health slightly said, hides a number of contradictions in itself. The estimates of the potential growth of fiscal revenues on this basis for around 440 million kunas annually are based on current consumption and do not take into account the possibility of decline and consumption, i.e. strengthening the grey economy, thereby unequivocally intensifying the smuggling of these tobacco products in the whole area. Should we walk any market in any of our cities and notice what's actually going on next to the kiosks, behind the kiosks, there's usually that sentence: "Oh, a cigar, a pike."what happens to controls and that's our question. Equally, it is from border areas because the soft border is an advantage, but only when it is well controlled for all those who do not know what the legal order and rule of law in it means, in particular, in terms of control mechanisms. Therefore, these measures in our court contain one internal trap to turn the intended coverage of the budget deficit into a significant reduction in the consumption of tobacco products, thereby reducing fiscal revenues and strengthening the negative effects of the gray market of informal sectors of production and smuggling. In a broader social context, the solution could also affect the reduction of tobacco production, which is paradoxical, and thus not an increase in the unemployment rate, so that the alleged increase in the unemployment rate could turn the alleged public health concern, national health and the promotion of non-smoking policies into a far more complex social problem with broad consequences for current social relations. If the aim of these tax increases is, in particular, on tobacco products, to fill the deficit, and not to go to one complex elaborated action that speaks of the preservation of national health, then, of course, it cannot be said that the proposal itself is serious. So it comes in one dimension and for one purpose only. What's more, the industry, along the way, is an example to support what can be a paradox. The tobacco industry in the Republic of Croatia is, more precisely, a famous tobacco factory "Rovinj" is one of the most valuable tax payers, to suit you in a certain way, even pet them, which daily fills the state budget for more than one million euros on behalf of tax duties, promotes, finance, participates in numerous social, cultural, environmental and health programmes. Take care of the health care of the wider social significance. Additional tax burdens could negatively affect this segment of national production and endanger overall economic growth. Looking again at some parallel examples as interesting and this factor of a possible increase in the tax burden on tobacco products all... the price of tobacco products in the European Union is somewhere in 2000, an index that shows what it is, we can notice how the price of a pack of cigarettes is, for example. There's only one dollar left in Portugal and Spain, so you see in Portugal. Italy, Greece and Austria about two dollars, Germany three, Sweden, Finland, Denmark and Ireland four, in Britain more than six dollars per box. Where is an analysis of why this is happening in the European Union, and then determined after these analyses, forecasts in relation to what is happening, and estimates of what is happening on our market. This data, following prices through the prism of living standards and family incomes, makes it clear that cigarettes in Croatia are quite expensive and turn into luxury, will further benefit the process that a number of people in tobacco products are directed towards the black market and the grey economy. Therefore, these reasons give a clear picture of the whole problem and warn that the intended positive fiscal effect could be turned into a far more complex social problem with direct consequences for economic growth, unemployment rates and national tobacco production, and alleged public health concerns due to everything expressed in a very complex social problem at the same time. And in conclusion, we want to say that it may have to be pursued and it is clear in our court, in fact, that it should be pursued in taxation if the budget has to be filled with those forms of consumption that are not flexible, and then the approximations are projected to happen on the income side of the income can indeed be realistically evaluated. They say those who know a lot more about it, who are experts, that, therefore, in these inflexible forms actually need to concentrate and that you can then make real assessments. On the contrary, you get improvisation, but these bill proposals are not the first time we've faced such or similar improvisations. Otherwise, moaning about how a car, well, too important can mean actually a deficit in the external trade balance, doesn't seem like the ones that faced us with 95% or 98% of the bank's ownership in foreign hands, and at the same time, the dividends that are being made there are also on the other side. So what about it? Give in your answer, Mr. Minister, at least some slight remarks that on many confusions, here on your part, I'm almost certain when we get an answer will be somewhat less. And something else in Club Libre's court. It's actually the dictatorship of the International Monetary Fund. That's what you have to admit and say, that's what God is. To the left, they would say, not to the left, but to the left. We think that this actually happened a new tax. I would call it the PSV versus that famous VAT and see this PSV with a little "z" in brackets as a tax on the alliance for power. I think that's exactly how one tax is introduced. I call it PSV. But if so, let it go into service or mandate to those who thus solve budgetary problems. It would be very good to hear if it really is planned, is there at least a hint of these plans that the collected money will be spent? It's very important because it's not about hunting anyone but about taxpayers' money, including my neighbor, Grandma Anna. Thank you very much, thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u16153	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HSP Club, respected representatives Tonci Tadic and Pero Kovacevic. The first one will be Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u16154	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. The first thing that must be said is that these two laws do not go towards tax discharge and do not go into the sense of meeting the government's programme, raising citizens' living standards. Because we need to be aware that this means reducing citizens' tax standards. So one of the more important things we said in the government program we heard at the first session last year was that there would be a lot of work to raise citizens' living standards. This is an undisputed blow to citizens' standards, and it will automatically and cost their lives. So we won't be surprised if other excise duties, taxes, bridges, airstrips and other things are introduced in the coming stages, because apparently the finance minister will always remember all these things. First of all, we've heard a lot here, and we know well that the Minister of Finance has talked about how the state needs to pick up what's hers. So we see, we know ourselves that our problems, let's say, in collecting excise duties primarily on oil, oil derivatives are of such nature that it's precisely in the tourist season when it's expected that consumption is far greater that the revenues from excise duties were far lower. But we don't see here again all these mechanisms that will ensure that we collect what belongs to the state. We at the HSP Club said it was very easy to decide, to put a chip on each tank, and at any moment it is known, and not that the tanker came out of Croatia by paper and documentation, and basically remained in Croatia, and that is all the sales of oil and oil products, and the state does not collect anything from it. And now we're looking here that the state is trying to make an effort about it too, there's a huge problem in the area of selling cigarettes. In a way, we also know that you can buy in Croatia cigarettes produced in Croatia, meaning, without a stamp. And the other thing is I can buy cigarettes with a Republika Srpska stamp. What's he saying? It says there's two things we don't understand. The first thing that's wrong with us, so it's that tobacco factories don't have the right control in the sense that every box of cigarettes produced gets a stamp, which is very easy to get rid of. Pay the inspectors to be present for 24 hours, on call, none of them will be able to leave the shipment without it, and another situation is that the issue of customs must be resolved, so that this smuggling that is happening and that cigarettes of ours are sold in Croatia either with a stamp of Republika Srpska or with a stamp of Serbia-Montenegro or without a stamp. And now we're looking at the variant of how the legislator, or the government, wanted to settle it, so in the final proposal for a law on amendments and amendments to the Law on Special Tax on Tobacco Products, it's changing, says Article 15(3), and now we all have to watch out here who have cigarettes and get paid. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. So if such a provision were to remain, anyone who is a smoker should not go to the table and have a pack of cigarettes with him because if caught by an inspector would be punished from 500 kuna to a million kuna. So that needs to be fixed because the diction here applies, Mr. Shakespeare, so that the possession of tobacco products in the places where the sale is not to be carried out. Yeah, it's a very inaccurate and dangerous variant. Well, now I'm interested in something, another variant. Normally, we're opposed to this way, in new ways, but I'm curious. Well, in tobacco products, he says, a special tax on cigarettes is paid, and now we raise the excise duty on cigarettes of Group A, on cigarettes of Group B and on cigarettes of Group C. And now I wonder at the HSP Club why the excise duties didn't rise to cigarettes and cigarettes? And I came to the conclusion last Friday during my break. The Prime Minister was, we had lunch downstairs and he's clogged, the truth in the areas where you banned cigarillos. Is now why it isn't on cigarillos an increased excise charge for the Prime Minister, no, or for cigarettes. No, no, look, here, I'm a little bit of this, but why, like, why don't you give me, why on cigarettes and cigarillos isn't elevated? Explain that to me. Why, explain it to me. ... No, no, it's not here. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] You want to read or you don't want to read? So, it's not raised to cigarettes, it's still 1.10 and it's 4.40 cigarettes. We should therefore take care of the matter. And why is this excise charge bad? I heard the other day on the board because until a few days ago, only two employees worked in the Excise Department. There's supposed to be more employees now. The following will be spoken by my esteemed colleague, Tonci Tadic, but when it comes to personal vehicles, why couldn't a smaller excise charge be given to private cars imported or disabled from the Homeland War or other disabled people? Because they're the same, and it's said, it's been said to be one of the social measures. That looks like that part from Alan Ford and number one, take the poor girl to get rich. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u16155	Thank you very much. A colleague of Tadic's.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u16156	Your Honor, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the council, Mr. Minister and the gentlemen of the ministry. In the second part of the exhibition on behalf of the Club of HSP, I will refer to the Law on increased excise duty on cars and motor vehicles. I would in the first row, Mr. Minister, ask the question of what is the real purpose of this law? It is either a reduction in imports or an increase in revenue in the budget. Because we can't think of each other as a goal. In our view, the aim is actually to reduce imports, and you are, in your view, to reduce your problems, to fill the state budget, i.e. to increase budget revenues. So here it is directly counting on the growth of excise income, of €220 million per year, which actually means predicting the current equally large growth of imports but with slightly greater taxation. This taxation through excise duties actually for us at the HSP club does not correspond to social justice, although everywhere is on average an increase of 25%, but it is only an average, we think that it would be far more just if the increase would still be somewhat lower for cheaper cars, and if that increase were equally important for the most expensive vehicles because it really reflects the purchasing power of the Croatian population. We also believe that there should have been even more talk here about the power of the engine in the European Union, one of the standards accepted is that the greater the degree of the ability of the special taxes for cars, because all the countries in the European Union that we strive to protect the environment. What is also interesting here is to conclude that the first significant increase in excise duties occurred when car duties and other motor vehicles were increased in order to implement a temporary agreement on trade relations between Croatia and the European Union or when that trade part of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the European Union began to be realised. On this occasion, the agreement noted that car tariffs would be reduced in steps of 30% annually, however, it happened that for cars from the Union they were reduced immediately to 0%, while for motorcycles they decreased gradually. For all these reasons, due to the deficit in the state budget a few years ago, a first-time increase in excise duties was introduced. And now we have come into a really absurd situation, which is that Croatia has increased excise duties to compensate for the loss of customs duties for vehicles from the European Union, which basically means that for vehicles produced outside the European Union, so in any other country, is that the United States, is that India, Korea or Japan, that these vehicles are disproportionately expensive. In this sense, I would like to remind you here that the Croatian Parliament accepted with almost two-thirds majority in 2001 in the November proposal for a conclusion proposed by the HSP Representatives' Club to be in charge of the government to lift customs duties on all private cars and other motor vehicles. This proposal for a conclusion proposed by the HSP then and proposed by the entire Assembly I repeat almost two-thirds of the majority has never been realised. We have been given more than the former government an explanation that such a thing is impossible to realise, that the government is unable to act on that conclusion by the Parliament, which is truly amazing because the government wants to protect good trade relations with the European Union, which means that the government wants to protect car manufacturers from the European Union that we are not a member of. And none of them produce a single part of us, so that we should protect them in some way. I understand that customs are protected by, for example, the production of a vessel which is fine but also there we have abolished customs duties, I would understand that even the production of aircraft is being protected, because there were a few people on Brač who were trying to start domestic production of light aircraft but we don't protect them. However, here we are protecting European car manufacturers. So these are things that are truly strange and unacceptable to us, and I repeat, it is extremely unusual and incredible for a democratic country that the government says that it is not able to implement the Assembly's conclusion because it opposes good relations with the European Union. For all these reasons, we believe that Croatia must behave in a consistent manner, if we do not protect domestic producers then we can abolish these customs duties in order to act completely impartially on the international market. We also believe that it was good to go to the clarification of these parts relating to excise duties on vessels, but we are still extremely understated and questionable this attitude relating to imports of vessels that are further rented to other persons, so the notoral fact is that Croatia is losing big money on... the charter of the vessel and that this must be regulated as clearly as possible by the legal provisions. In this way, unfortunately, Mr. Minister, we don't think that this result will be achieved. For all these reasons, our Club cannot support this Law as well as the previous one relating to the increase in excise duty on tobacco. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u16157	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations by the esteemed representative Miroslav Korenik.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u16158	Thank you very much, Mr. President, it is incorrect that Mr. Tadic is not producing car parts in Croatia that are otherwise made and manufactured in the countries of the European Union.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u16159	On behalf of the HSLS and DC Club, Honorable Representative Mate Brletić, please welcome.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u16160	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, representatives of the government, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. Today we talk about these excise duties especially when we watch tobacco, it's a blow to citizens' standards. Even more on the black market, large quantities of cigarettes and tobacco are located in border areas towards the Republic of Serbia and Bosnia and Herzegovina. On a daily basis, tens of thousands of cigarettes are imported into the Republic of Croatia, which is a great loss for our budget. I believe that measures should be taken to ensure that the police and customs officers do their job and prevent the illegal introduction of cigarettes into the Republic of Croatia. The Democratic Centre and HSLS club will vote for the adoption of this legislative proposal. The increase in excise duty on private cars and motorcycles in the fixed part and, as a percentage, depending on the economic strength, the tax burden is allocated, we consider it acceptable. As a result of the increase in excise duties, if the purchase of the most sold cars in the middle class is compared to those passing 300 thousand kuna is estimated to be between 3 and 10% acceptable. However, this measure has an exclusive fiscal character and should not consider that this increase in excise duties will contribute to the reduction of trade deficits and to the improvement of the balance sheet position of Croatia and to the slowdown of imports of passenger cars and to the positive movement of external debt, as stated in the government's reasoning. Namely, the demand for cars and motorcycles in our country is quite unethical and if it should not be in its market character, no matter what period it is observed. Imports of middle-class cars have kept a constant especially since bank loans became available. That only changes car types. On... demand, the demand for imports of cars and motorcycles also indicates data from the Government that account for a more significant change in the volume of car imports after the introduction of an increased excise duty. The level of the fiscal deficit and public debt are the provisions according to which the government has decided to increase excise duties on imports of cars and motorcycles. In this year, additional tightness, outstanding debt of more than 6 billion kunas, mainly for road construction, agriculture, health care, as well as commitments to start a project on the modernisation of a 2 billion kuna railway or an additional 8 billion kuna which cannot be achieved by existing tax instruments. Added revenue from 110 million kuna by the end of this year with 221 million kuna on the basis of an increase in excise duties on tobacco products will in part facilitate the situation in the state budget. There should be reasons to increase excise duties on imports of cars and motorcycles. Other amendments to this legislative proposal are necessary, complementing the legal gaps observed in the application of this law. In this respect, we consider it justified that the explicits are prescribed that the tax exemption on vessels applies to those used for the purpose of carrying out the registered activity with the criminal sanctioning of abuse, i.e. unlawful treatment. Tax taxpayers with vessels and aircraft not charged or charged a specific tax. To what extent is the resourcefulness of our people to avoid tax payments also indicates the need to add to the financial lease a provision which explicitly stipulates that the surrender of a vessel in sport, recreation or leisure contract is considered to be a delivery and subject to the payment of excise duties. The same is the case when paying excise duties per vessel of 8 metres, where the tax liability has been avoided, not at the same time as the imports of the engine from the vessel, but also due to the lack of standards which could distinguish vessels with cabins and vessels with a semi-cab. Their equalization in taxation. The increase in excise duty of tobacco products from 10 to 22.5% depending on the group they belong to is considered acceptable. However, this increase in excise duties will not affect stopping the growth of quantities of legally delivered and imported cigarettes abroad. This measure has an exclusive fiscal character. Namely, the demand for a tobacco product in our country is completely insatiable, and if it is in its market character it should not be. No matter what period is observed, the legal sale of tobacco products remains constant. And somewhat, but very briefly at the very beginning, the increase in the tax burden slightly reduces sales. The lack of elasticity of demand for tobacco products also points to government data which does not account for a more significant change in the volume of tobacco sales after the introduction of an increased excise duty. The level of the fiscal deficit and the public debt are the provisions according to which the government has decided to increase the cost of tobacco products. Other amendments to this legislative proposal are necessary and complement the legal gaps observed in the application of this law, in particular in the part relating to the illegal sale and possession of a brand of unmarked tobacco products. The DC and HSLS Club will support this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u16161	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, in an individual debate, by these two points united, we have 20 MPs. That's about 3.5 hours or so. So according to this, since the next point is the amendment and addition of the Law on Land Books, where we have also registered 7 clubs of MPs and for now 13 MPs and MPs, I think it would be appropriate to conclude this point today, these two points, and tomorrow we continue to amend and supplement the Law on Land Books, and afterwards this debate will go, where I will also propose a joint debate with the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Spatial Planning and Amendments and Supplements to the Construction Act. And now I would like to appeal to my colleagues and colleagues that, since they have already made a thorough statement on behalf of the clubs for these 20 minutes, I appeal to the debate to be so tempered. Honored representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. And I ask the Vice President of the Parliament, the esteemed Milinovic, to take over the presidency.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u16162	Thank you, Your Honor, Mr. President, for your honors and for your representatives, Mr. Minister. Is he here? He's gone. But there are his associates. And I'm sorry he's not here, because maybe he hasn't heard the ad that's been spinning around on one of our radios these days, and that's a little bit of a mockery for the government, but that's basically revealing the real truth and these laws themselves, otherwise the situation in the country, so it's already a little bit clear to the citizens that the cashier's empty. And the song goes, "Time flies, that's the ad, "time flies, days go down, bigger excises come fast." So it's clear to people that, as I've already pointed out, the state's register is empty, not full. And that's the result of what we were saying at the beginning of the opposition, especially from the SDP, and we criticized that the government doesn't have a development programme, that there's no development strategy, and then it hits taxes, by intrusion, by predator. And when he travels around the world, he promises. Here in Cleveland recently, it is promised to our business people who know very well what is going on here, as well as any citizen, if not better, who is here, because perhaps with a move you can see the situation and images better, so it has been promised to lower tax burdens, etc., even though Minister Schuker announced precisely in these annual tax breaks that it will not be in the future, because that is how these tax incentives were used most of the richer ones. and that this will certainly not be the case, and has already announced the abolition of many of the benefits that the coalition government has made to make life easier for its citizens and to introduce them. The government is completely unfounded to hope that these summations, because this increase in excise duties, is nothing more than a collection, will provide an additional 650 million kuna in the budget, and of that, some 4 hundred million kuna would go to an increase in excise duties on tobacco products, as it is quite clear and evident that after excise duties on oil derivatives, this is one of the most recent excise duties. This year, about 5 hundred million kunas of revenue were planned from car excise duties and only the Ministry estimates that it could provide an additional 200 million kuna per year. However, the basic question would be and this would be just as the government in its reasoning states in both drafts of the law that it is still about justice because it is more taxing those more expensive products. However, justice would be satisfied with the principle of respect for solidarity and trust then states in taxpayers but also taxpayers in the state that they will not be able to settle the same taxes when they are missing then hit on just the ones most worthy. Therefore, the state should be interested and ask a question and there would be considerable resources and I say it would be given a general public acclaim because this would ultimately mean a reduction in all other taxes and charges and also excise duties, because it would be equally allocated to all citizens. In fact, how much the state loses on income because of the growing smuggling. This is a question and in such a way it could be effective to obtain funds, not additional, but those that belong to the state if they are not able to achieve it because of these or those reasons, and then it goes in these ways. The black market for cigarettes, at least experts who deal with the value of at least a billion kuna per year. That's what the biggest loser is, then, exactly the state budget. About nine hundred million kuna is exactly that loss for the state and also for domestic and trade distributions of about three hundred million kunas. And the causes of the black market are, above all, in too high, unfoundedly too high taxes, excise duties, or ultimately, tobacco prices for us, the most powerful cigarettes that allow high profits to be made precisely to those who participate in such a suspicious one in any case, in any case illegal in any case in a suspicious chain, including sometimes by some producers themselves. The illegal sale of cigarettes in Croatia takes unacceptable proportions. We need to know that we are now mainly surrounded by neighbours who have lower prices of tobacco products, and that is exactly what the state should take care of. Cigarettes without tax stamps in Croatia are not an exception, they are not only on these open-air markets, in banks, under banks, but on the streets and sometimes even in specialized shops and even tobacco products. Of course, it is done to reduce smuggling, and these tobacco goods are also done in such a way as to strengthen customs controls, but in any case, it is not enough and neither will it be possible to reduce smuggling only by stronger customs controls, at least not to a significant extent, but it is precisely achieved by a smaller tax, a smaller charge on cigarettes, on tobacco products something as modelled by Canada, Sweden and Denmark. There is certainly a problem with the proposal of the Car Expansion Act, other motor vehicles, vessels, aircraft, because it is evident and for us the most interesting increase in car excise duty is because it is evident that sales or car purchases are falling. Why and what's the reason? Well, the simple reason is simple. During the coalition government loans were made available, the citizens were just here a lot of speeches about it until then had very wasted old vehicles, so it was mostly primate to buy them a new vehicle. And that's what often is respected, so it's just such a debt that it's this public debt that the former coalition government has owed generations to, but in any case, it owes a new government. However, I note that such loans are granted only to credit-worthy persons or families. So, mostly, this need is already for new cars of escalating, and these needs are already calmed down. I've already said something about this bill, although in the light of the bill's proposal in both laws, it's an identical explanation that it's social, but it's not because excise duties are growing exactly on the cheapest cars that are precisely because of their price, medium price and most accessible to our citizens, even up to 30%, and to those luxurious 12% which are also not a small amount but certainly significantly lower than those excise increases that are proposed precisely on medium and cheaper vehicles. So there is no point in saying that the proposal would be exactly or social, not to mention what I said earlier that it would not achieve such an effect at all, but it is precisely this measure that goes into account or in favour of those who already have. Therefore, the SDP Club also proposed an amendment not to increase excise duties on cars worth up to 100 thousand kuna, but we do not hope that it will be, or we believe, be rejected as we believe that this is not the last hack you have prepared for the Croatian people and citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u16163	Thank you. We have a correction to the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative of the Bitunac.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u16164	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Rebic and I raised the same time, you estimated that I was the first. I'll take it. Like this, counterpart Anticevic said the next state register is empty and not loaded. It's simply impossible because the former government left the state register not empty but even in a minus, and if the money didn't touch the register then there would be nothing to empty and I believe that this government and this ministry will fill the Treasury much better, better quality and more effectively than the former government did. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u16165	Thank you. It is up to the honourable representative Niko Rebić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u16166	counterpart Anticevic incorrectly claimed that during the former coalition government, so many loans were made available to citizens that everyone could buy and change old cars. It is simply incorrect because it is known that most cars were bought during the golden years of the HDZ government when it gave all defenders up to 80% and so, in fact, at that time, a groovy car was imported into Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u16167	So much for the golden age. Krunoslav Markovinović, correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u16168	Here, Mr. Vice President, here's an esteemed colleague who incorrectly states that smuggling is growing. I'd understand if it were her cobwebs. But let's just say, I can say at the cherry market last year, on average, I'm asking me to buy five smugglers' cigarettes this year on average. Well, by the same methodology, smuggling falls. ... I'll buy it for you if I have to. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u16169	Thank you. Let's move on with the debate. Imported representative of Ruža Lelic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u16170	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, gentlemen of the Ministry, colleagues and colleagues, I will look back at the amendments to the Law on Special Tax on Tobacco Products in my presentation. I mean, I think about smoking, and I think about smoking, and we're almost familiar with it, but still some, something needs to be repeated and pointed out. According to World Health Organization data, today the world smokes a billion and 100 and some data even a billion and 200 people. And about 500 million will die too soon as a result of smoking. The figure is estimated to be as much as 8 million and 400 million in 2020, which is more than any other cause. It is also often mentioned that cigarettes contain tar, carbon monoxide, nicotine, that nicotine produces addiction or cigarettes contain over 400 chemicals of which a string is harmful to health. These cause a series of diseases or raise the risk of illness. So the risk, for example, is greater than lung cancer by 20 to 30%, as well as the risk of heart and blood vessels disease to increase infertility in women and others. It is also important to point out that smoking mothers, that smoking mothers are at twice the risk of having a child suffering from respiratory disease such as bronchitis, pneumonia. These are the only reasons why it's worth smoking for, and that's why we have to fight smoking. And Croatian citizens smoke more than Europeans. According to 99th year data in Croatia, 34% of men and 26.6% of women smoke regularly. Croatia, with 2086 cigarettes consumed per capita, is also significantly above the European average where the average is around 1673 cigarettes. According to polls, about 29% of citizens want to quit smoking and they need help anyway. The main objective of all measures is to reduce the number of smokers in the overall population, especially in the younger population, which would directly reduce some of the above-mentioned diseases. Some of the measures are, for example, action like ours, say not to smoke, then recreation, education for citizens, as well as an educational course for doctors and primary health care and in the hospital sector to help their patients in this important decision. All these measures should be strong and continuous. But now I would point out one of the important measures that we are discussing today. One of the significant measures in the fight against smoking also includes an increase in tobacco taxes, and this measure has led to a reduction or stabilisation of the number of smokers in developed countries, but in these countries we must say that such an climate and atmosphere have been created that smoking is totally unacceptable and in some countries I think even is being exaggerated. The data suggests that if the tax increases by 10% as proposed by us for these cheapest cigarettes, consumption decreases in developed countries by 4% and 8% in less developed ones. These measures are the most effective in young and poor, which is also important. The reduction in consumption would also improve the health of the nation and this would directly affect social and economic development and, in view of the annual increase in budget revenues, around 440 million are listed. The benefits of these measures should be multiple, although those who smoke with it may not agree. But here it should be noted that there are opinions that raise taxes, i.e. excise duty stimulates smuggling. Although you can't say it's a rule. Because we have countries that are expensive cigarettes like Sweden, Finland, Norway, France, in them there is no or very little smuggling while in others where cigarettes are cheap smuggling flowers. According to the United Nations, a quarter of cigarettes sold worldwide find their way through illegal channels to the market and, according to World Bank data, about 6% to 8% of total consumption of cigarettes was bought in smuggling. And the balcony has already been pointed out several times makes a key link to cigarette smuggling in Europe, and all this causes loss to the government, budget loss, aids in the financing of organised crime and undermines health policy. That's why it's important to curb and reduce smuggling, which is definitely a job for customs and police. And let me get this straight. How consumption of tobacco products not only does not benefit but is extremely damaging to the individual and community and it is not to ignore the pollution of nature if we now remember those 2086 cigarettes per capita per year. As a doctor, I support amendments to the laws on tobacco products to discourage and reduce consumption, thereby reducing the risk of many diseases. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u16171	Thank you. The word has a distinguished representative, Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u16172	Dear Vice President of the House, Minister Shucker obviously lacks money. They scratch at the bottom. There is also an increase in the scope of the confessions. Quite unexpected. I'm surprised by these two legal proposals. And I believe it surprises many citizens. That's not what they were hoping for. It wasn't in Prime Minister Sanader's security card. It didn't say there, look people, I guarantee you, vote for HDZ, so when we get the election, then we'll increase your excise duty so you won't be able to buy cars as conveniently as you've bought so far. It didn't say that there. That's why this surprises me, and I'm sure it'll surprise the citizens. There was something else written there. There it wrote to the general joy of all who have read that the guarantee card will increase the standard, that taxes will be reduced, and none of it will, anything is the opposite, that VAT will be reduced and none of it will either, no, means that taxes are not reduced, taxes are increased. Privileges are increasing, everything's coming down on the back of the citizens. Why? He thought Minister Shuker could do it. And he can't. He thought he'd know, and that's what he doesn't know. And how do you get out of that solution now, how do you get out of this situation, increase the burdens? It's a brilliant solution, it's a rescue solution that's so hard to figure out, raise taxes. Finally, the state will have more, the citizens will have less. He said Minister Shuker, even as a parliamentary representative in the past term that she was not doing well, that she could not do it, because that tax control, tax discipline should be increased, and that three billion, 6 billion could then move there, I don't remember the amount he said. Today he claims, today he claims he said 3 billion and somehow it seems to me the same thing is 6 but in any case it's very much. If he had fulfilled what he had promised then, he shouldn't have increased taxes. Well, it's one thing to say something's gonna be done, and the other one can do it. Cigarettes. The easiest thing to do is to increase excise duties on cigarettes. About as much as alcohol, about as much as beer. Cigarettes, alcohol, that's harmful stuff. Here we have now heard a good lecture from a colleague of the Rose Lelic about tobacco damage. We've heard all the harmful ingredients in nicotine smoke and all these diseases cause smoking as if nobody knew it. And it's like the law on that. And it's like an increase in excise duty is going to stop the harmfulness of smoking. Well, listen, if it were that simple, it wouldn't be the problem with smoking in the world. So they would raise the excise rate of 500 percent, people would do that, they would have to stop buying it and stop smoking and the state would have lost money in the budget of course. Well, the state's in the interest of people smoking. Well, it's in the state's interest to spend as much on cigarettes as possible. So he wants to stop smoking really by these methods, so that's easy, ma'am, but that's not the point. Therefore, it makes no sense to deceive people and tell them to take care of their health. He doesn't care about their health, he takes care of the budget. That's what he's worried about, and that's what this law is about. Look, I'm a smoker, unfortunately. I've created this ugly and unnecessary habit of youth, and there's no way I can get rid of it like most people do. It's an ugly, ugly habit. And I'd be the first to do that even though I'm a smoker to increase excise duties and much more than these. If the money collected in this way was used to suppress smoking habits or to prevent or treat diseases caused by nicotine consumption, then there would be an honest intention. We're going to take your money, and not everyone, the ones who smoke to use that money to stop smoking. But you can't do that. That's not the point. The intention is to fill the state budget, encourage those who smoke to keep on smoking. Just let them smoke. The more of them it's Minister Shuker's better. Cars. Look in Croatia we have an old fleet. It's an old rolling stock. The number of car accidents caused by the fact that cars are insecure because the old ones are getting bigger. We must try to rebuild the fleet, enable citizens to restore cars as much as in other European countries, every 5 years to drive as safely as possible. And what are we doing? We're making it difficult for them to buy. So now even those who may have had the intention of not having this law buy a car, replace their old one, they won't be able to. It won't work because 25% isn't small. 25% is not small. They'll drive around in old cars, they'll die in them. You betcha. You betcha. Because it will be the consequence of this law. So let's not talk about people's health and care for their health because I don't see it from these government proposals. The government cares about human health and traffic safety. She takes care of herself. About your interests. The interests of the cash register. Now, you can see that even now they're in these cars, that the proposal is like this: Let's increase the excise duty on the most luxurious, the biggest cars that are bought by rich people, and that doesn't matter if a car has paid 150 thousand euros or 200. If he's 150, he'll probably be 200, or he won't buy so big and what the hell do we care about him? But let's cut the excise on those smallest cars. And then that proposal would be socially sensitive and be socially beneficial. And you'd be more righteous than what's being offered. And that's not what you're offering. He wants to be taken after everything. On small cars and used cars, on every car that the citizens of Croatia buy. And who's going to get hurt now? Who's going to go bad when these two laws are passed? Citizens. They'll go bad. These are laws against citizens, and that's why I can't vote for those laws, and I don't think anyone who cares about citizens' interests can vote for those laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u16173	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative Bagarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u16174	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I am correcting Mr. Stazic's incorrect allegations that the increase in excise duties on tobacco products does not also cause health effects. This is not true because it has been proven that the application of a smoking ban at the workplace helps in rehab, and whatever you do more is available either drugs or cigarettes people will take more. I therefore support the debate of my colleague, Rose, who spoke about health effects and very justifiable.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u16175	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the distinguished representative Lelic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u16176	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I'm glad my colleague Stazic watched me with this whole exposure, whether or not soapy, but it seems to me that he is and I would correct his incorrect quote. He says that by exposé and data, we deceive the people, which is not true. I've brought out the general known facts that the increase in excise duty in developed countries reduces the consumption of cigarettes by 4%, less developed by 8%, and I really don't think I need anyone to tell me what I'm up to. I was really talking this honest about the harmful effects of tobacco and that one o, an increase in excise duty is one of the measures to reduce consumption.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u16177	Thank you. It's our guest, Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u16178	Thank you very much. My colleagues and colleagues, when I read in the media that the government was preparing these two proposals, I was very interested in how the government's common position would determine. It seems to me that Minister Shuker and Minister Hebrang were in conflict with the two legal proposals. The interest of the finance minister is to increase revenues in the register, but on the other hand, the interest of the health minister is that the issue of cigarettes, but also the high cost of treatment injured in traffic accidents, is being reduced as much as possible. But I saw today and a great deal of concern with fellow Loncar, our fellow MPs, because another agricultural product on the market will be collected, making the producers even more unfavourable. The more the increase in prices does not go to the benefit of the manufacturer, the more the team does to the State’s cash register. Of course, we will not support either bill but allow only three important notes. If the aim of increasing car excise duties is to stop imports and thus task citizens and to create or stop an increase in foreign debt, because there will be a reduction in the purchase of imported cars, then I do not understand how the maximum tripshare of as much as 220 million kuna will come from the car. Because with traffic cuts, income goes down. So either the excise income stays the same, or it will be even smaller and not increased. It's one of the illogicalities that's given in the explanation, and I think it deserves a direct response from the Ministry of Finance's representatives who are here. And today if he can do it right after the exposure. Secondly, the purpose of these 660 million kunas of increased revenue from the state budget is not given in both materials and in the ear exposure of the Minister of Finance. I think it would be best if we could get a consensus on the decision to turn this 660 million kn into state budgets for health care, especially because of everything we've heard today from Minister Hebrang, about the disastrous financial situation in the health system. So I think that a large number of citizens would know and be sure that the increase in the tax press will still have a known effect in such a portfolio that cares about the health or treatment of citizens. Thirdly, I would like to ask the same question, namely some other countries that have been taught similar to those of Croatia today when importing cars and information equipment, then they told all those producers and countries from which the biggest exports are coming ok.You are giving birth to so many millions, or billions of euros of your products, let's see what you can produce with us. So through the customs policy of excise duty, other types of tax presses are stimulated that these producers besides selling and, according to that information, create or increase the country's new debt, part of their production is moving to those countries. Which opens up income tax jobs, and everything that's contained in it. And given that frequent contacts were with the Israeli government, it might be good to study Israeli experiences that, in this respect, especially in the automotive industry industry industry, seemed to me to have gone further. There was no discussion or indication in this, today we are talking about personal cars and engines, tomorrow we could talk about information equipment also where imports into Croatia may be even bigger than in personal cars. But it's the safety of traffic. Data reported the other day and the Deputy Prime Minister himself worried about the situation. The data suggests that on the roads in Croatia, as well as in the Homeland War in defence, there are also three times as many victims as three, three-teach thousand who also cost high costs in the health system. And according to the structure of the cause of traffic accidents other than bad roads, roads, of course the technical failure of driving them precedes them especially in heavy accidents. If, therefore, we want to return to the situation of a rolling stock at Albania's level, then it is also too little to stop any further responsibility of the citizens of this country. And we'd have to be at least five times bigger, and that would really introduce order. So I'm really interested in gentlemen whether there are ideas that the Croatian state is engaged in a way that in the import of personal cars, IT equipment, tries to come with world producers through the tax system and politics, that part of that production finally comes to Croatia. In the neighbouring region of Hungary, the information industry in two counties has been employed in the last 4 years by 6 thousand workers, with the Hungarian state two large corporate world chain of information equipment thus stimulating their production only 15km from our border. And I end up with the following, the guarantee card at the beginning was no interest at the beginning of the year was a regular banking interest rate to me, after these two laws, that it would be applied to the interest rate on revolving loans. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u16179	Thank you. It's time for the Honorable Representative Drago Prgomett. He's losing his right to debate. Next Dear Representative Miroslav Korenik, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u16180	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, I must say that these days and that there are a lot of talk about many deaths and a large number of traffic accidents in the Republic of Croatia. Just to point out that the moment in Croatia is registered about a million and 850 thousand vehicles, and the causes of traffic accidents are at least according to statistics for 2002 and 2003, saying that 90% of the cases are drivers. The other 10% are deployed even though there is never any exact data because the easiest thing to do is to always charge and blame the driver, one part on the road, one on the vehicle. There were just words that 80,000 new cars were purchased last year in the Republic of Croatia, as the average age of atjuomobiles in the Republic of Croatia was not slightly less than 11 years with all these cars bought over the past years. And now again impact on traffic safety. It is obvious that this government does not manage events in prolomet but that events govern them. Because how else to say it than to get new amendments and additions to the Road Safety Act by emergency procedure. And when active and passive security is sought to improve the purchase of new vehicles, then the finance minister says that too many Republic of Croatia is in debt abroad and that the negative trends are that this is why new vehicles should not be purchased. I know, there are individuals who will say, no evidence of the impact of the car and the quality of the car is on traffic safety. But it's certainly respected ladies and gentlemen, that both active and passive safety in new cars is more quality and better than in these old landscapes, which, regardless of how they go on technical examinations or make-up for technical checks, are simply not what should be for quality and safe traffic. And then there's a blow to the poor. Over 50% of registered cars belong to the category of these small cars whose price includes VATE and including excise duties up to 100 thousand kuna. And look at the wonders instead of helping the poorest circles in Croatia to continue to rebuild the rolling stock. Let's hit them. At the same time, he should have gone far more to increase the excise duty on us expensive personal vehicles. For those who have money, let them pay for it. Another thing I claim and cannot accept these changes to the laws that regulate excise duties on personal vehicles but others. and thus I claim that this law is as directly as a number of others in the function of the rich and at the expense of the Croatian poor or those who live harder than others and in Article 4 where this new article 6 is introduced, which says I will quote. "Special tax shall not be paid on vessels number or boat (ship), and inland navigation boats imported or delivered to perform registered activities." On the Committee on Economy, I must admit that the members of the government or those who were on behalf of the government have quite uneasyly explained what a thin line between the use and the misuse of the vessel and the plane purchased for some company is a thin thread, which is a small thread when some of our tycoon will use that rest vehicle and for what does not belong to some activity. And that's where the ladies and gentlemen show how to go in favour of the rich, not for the benefit of the poor, because for these millions-euro vessels, no excise fees will be paid. Oh, look at the wonders! And here you can see that this law is exclusively about spending and getting money, and money is always obtained from the poor. I must also point out that I find it odd when it comes to our excise duties, there is a colleague named Jurcic here having an extremely good discussion on the Committee on the Economy, that you have not thought of it, and then you catch some other kinds of consumption for which there are already excises from beer, coffee, and you're probably afraid of smuggling, and yet you're a little braked. However, there are other services than GSM services and everything else, but it seems that you are not yet at that stage to think a little bit wider, because you are constantly announcing new tax reforms that simply do not exist. And if it's about smoking, I agree with my colleague, Ruža Lelic, that smoking is a problem, and if we look only at the aspect of health, which is not the case here, and I will disabling a colleague who says and I agree with her that the increase in excise duty is reduced by 4% in the European Union countries and everything else, but the respected colleagues here say that the following years will no matter what, even the increase in excise duties, i.e. the increase in money that will thus be added to the state budget, and not a single word is said that these funds will be spent on health care or to affect the treatment of a nation that appears to be too much smoke. Let us not forget that just by banning smoking in the United States, it is the fact that there are fewer consequences for smoking, and less for taxes, because they have found that they are more costing them the health of the nation for smoking than they collect from taxes like this. These are significant arguments, and it seems to me that from the guarantee card of the re-respected lady and gentlemen there is nothing. It has been promised that the tax hikes, and therefore these excise duties will not be. I remember, and I'm sorry the minister didn't have it here, because he was one of the loudest when I was in 2001, it was going to be a refurbishing of excise duties and he was drastically against any increase in excise duties. Look at the wonders of what a big turn it is when it comes to offering the state register, and then he's really thinking about skinning the Croatian poor. That's exactly why I'm not ready and I'm not going to vote for these laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u16181	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the distinguished representative Markovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u16182	Mr. President, here's what I have to say, because I said it on the board. Again, he blames that old cars are among the important causes, not now, but when they grow old, I guess, when they will be. We heard earlier that the defenders were buying cars, that in recent years, all the new cars. So I don't know if there are any old cars on the roads. There are, aren't there? If there are they going very slowly that you might notice, they are often a distraction. Make once an analysis, not insinuations, of who produces these great accidents, beautiful, beautiful, fast and expensive cars and unfortunately young ones in them.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u16183	Thank you. Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, the honourable representative of the Korenika.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u16184	Article 209 was injured because my colleague is trying to correct my opinion, and the fact is that an average age of almost 11 shows that our fleet is quite old.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u16185	You've already made a claim, not an opinion. Thank you. It is up to the honourable representative, Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u16186	Dear Vice President, Secretary of State, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. When we get some law on the table, then the first thing to ask is what the point is, which is the goal of some law. It is clear and unequivocal here that the objective of this law is to increase budget revenues. There is a clear need for this, the Government intends to increase budget revenues and thinks that by increasing the excise duty on these two product groups or these product groups, there will be an increase in budget revenues. I wouldn't mind it if it were really justified, justified and if it really did, but I'm going to try to find out in my discussion with numbers that the government will unfortunately not achieve this goal that it has declared to itself here. First of all, it won't happen because it was argued by my colleague Lelic, and I just don't know why you didn't tell Minister Shuker in time before he wrote this law. Because if what you said is true by increasing excise duties, and this is about increasing excise duties, in developed countries it reduces the consumption of cigarettes 4%, in underdeveloped 8, and we are developing countries, so it means that the average of 6% of us is then you should tell Minister Shucker not to increase the revenue from excise duties but rather to reduce his income from excise duties by 6% and I expect you to exactly propose the amendment may not be on the law, but in the rebalancing of the budget in which the rate of excise duties will be reduced by what you are trying to convince us here. I trust you just give it a try and tell Minister Shuker that's exactly what you're saying and convince him that the revenue side of the budget would not blow up so that we could have the expenditure side on the other side. What's going on with the cars? There was some data and so much imported and so much imported. So in 2003, 75 thousand were imported, slightly less than 75 thousand new cars and 29 thousand used cars. So a year before that, it was imported in 2002. 72 thousand new cars and 24 thousand old cars. In the first six months of this year, 36,000 new cars were imported or 4400 cars were less than imported in the first six months of last year, or 11% of cars were less than total or 20% of cars worth less than 100 thousand kuna, but 30% more sports cars, or cars costing more than 200, 250 thousand kuna, were imported in the first six months. Last year, the budget revenue from excise duty on cars was around 900 million kuna, this year I think 940 million kuna was planned in the budget, and in the first three months, 190 million kuna of revenue was achieved in the state budget from excise duties. If such quarterly income were achieved by the end of the year it would be below that seasonal increase below 900 million and that's what the car sales data say. Today, we are discussing an increase in car charges and I would perhaps understand that if it were to increase the cost of all the same, however what the Ministry of Finance proposes. That the excise on cars up to 50 thousand kunas increase 30%, that the excise on cars up to 100 thousand kunas increase 21.7%, that the excise on cars up to 150 thousand kunas increase 17.1%, that the excise on cars up to 250 thousand kunas increase 12.3%, etc. etc. and behold wonders on cars of 350 thousand kuna 9.2% because probably those who buy a car of 350,000 kuna cannot pay high excise duties or higher excise duties. But those who can raise 50 thousand kuna for the car, and now we're going to pay them 30% more excise. If you're looking at the statistics on cars sold over the past few years and also the gold years of HDZ, which someone here will say, but in the gold years of HDZ, no more than 50,000 cars were sold annually. These are indicators that are very exact. In the gold years of HDZ, there were less than 50, and in the period of SDP 75. That's only that much, isn't it? So, when you look at it, these statistical indicators then cars up to 100 thousand kuna make up 72% of the total sales on the Croatian market, and cars worth up to 150 thousand kunas, these accounting ones, therefore, account for 90% of the sales on the Croatian market for excise duty. We, therefore, raise the cost to 90% of sales on the Croatian market by 30%, and to some 6% that make up these cars more than 250,000 kuna we raise the excise duty below 10%. Who was this law written for? This law was not written for an average Croatian citizen. He was written for the rich in Croatia because the average Croatian citizen will be taxed with excise duty 3 times more than we will tax the one who doesn't know what to buy more and more cylinders, so he buys more and more recent models. I asked Minister Shuker here in one current hour to tell us if he would check the tax cards of those who bought cars and more expensive than 50,000 euros. The data, he said he would, we didn't get the data. In public, the data has not been provided. But I checked, say, those famous A6s that were promoted to Zagreb Auto Show in the 4th month until today in Croatia are registered 71. Its average value is, the price is somewhere between 40 and 60 thousand euros, depending on the equipment. In the first 6 months, 167 BMWs 5 and 20 BMWs of the week and 148 Mercedes E-class were sold. When you look at the spread of these cars across Croatia, it turns out that, say, BMW week is 12 pieces in Zagreb, 5 in Osijek, 1 in Dubrovnik, 1 in Bjelovar, 1 in Sisak. It's all these 20 pieces in Croatia. That, for example, A6's 35 in Zagreb, 14 in Split, in the county I speak, Split, 25 in Istria, 9 in Osijek, etc., etc. That Mercedes is 76 in Zagreb, 13 in Rijeka, 11 in Osijek, 11 in Istria, etc., etc. When we look at average cars, for example, you have a 725 Corse in Zagreb, so, rank I speak. 266 in Sibenik, 220 in Split, 209 in Rijeka, Osijek is only somewhere on 10th place with 91 cars. Astres have 533 in Zagreb, 169 in Split, and again Sibenik is in 3rd place, so Rijeka is Istria and Osijek is Požega. Therefore, we do not have an evenly distributed wealth within Croatia because expensive cars are bought on an unequal basis by tax contributions. And here we are really talking about a law that will be a blow to the average citizen of Croatia. This excise tax law only pleases the rich. They will not even feel the 10% increase in excise duty on expensive cars, but the average car for an average citizen will become inaccessible for the average family in Croatia. We here increase excise duties by more than, more than a few average salaries of citizens in the Republic of Croatia and because of that, if the government really thinks, cars should be left up to 150 thousand kuna on the old excise duty. As far as cigarettes are concerned, I would agree, even if my colleague Lalić's thesis is rejected, that half of the income that will not be achieved should be directed towards the promotion of tobacco production and half of the health ministry's preventive health programmes. And finally, I want to ask what's up with beer excises? Beer excise duties in Croatia are not consistent with excise duties in the European Union and a group of brewers were with the finance minister. The finance minister has promised to bring excise duties on beer this year in line with those such as excise duties in the European Union because in Croatia, we pay the same excise duty on non-alcoholic beer as on beer with 12 alcohol spills. And the same thing is, the same is the problem with alcohol excises. Therefore, it may have been a law that needed to change it to fill the state budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u16187	Thank you. Thank you for the discussion. For the addition of your statistics, and my county slowly helmet, there's a week with us. ... Correction of an incorrect quote, Judge-Thrakostane. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u16188	Yes, Mr. Vice President. I am correcting the incorrect quote of my colleague Mršić about the number of cars imported from January 1st to June 30th this year to the Republic of Croatia. The exact number is 58 thousand 485 pieces, not 20 thousand and something, as you have said, and the incorrect fact is that to raise excise duties, an average citizen will pay several salaries. So, in absolute terms, it will set out for cars up to 100,000 kunas 3 thousand kuna more for excise duties compared to the current ones. For cars prices up to 150 thousand kunas 4 and a half thousand kunas higher and for those up to 200 thousand kunas 6 thousand kunas higher and so on. So if the average salary is 4000 kuna then it's not a few average salaries but, well, when we're playing with numbers to be exact. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u16189	Thank you. Replica, the esteemed representative of the Korenika.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u16190	I must admit that I am very sorry that Mršić did not present the data, and I assume that the government colleagues here have, how many yachts have been bought this year and last year in the Republic of Croatia and how many of them are registered. How many such yachts, because they want to be free of excise duties, how many are registered to be owned by individuals, and how many are registered in certain companies. For the more reason, if they are in commercial societies, as I have already mentioned in my debate, they are most often abused instead of for some purpose that should be economical, used for gardening and everything else that our tycoons do at sea. Unfortunately, it is obvious that this government wants to please them, and I would pray, perhaps colleague Mršić also has these statistical indicators because I see a gentleman from the government hiding it like a snake's feet.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u16191	Thank you. Replication response. Dear Representative Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u16192	Unfortunately, I come from a region where the sea has dried up long ago, so we don't have yachts, and on Drava, I hope you won't charge excise duties on the canons we're on while we're fishing. But I'm gonna take the opportunity to talk about the credibility of my data. That you can colleagues check in the MUP, I'm... No, no, I have a reply to the replica, I can. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] No, no, I'm not answering you. [[I didn't have a replica.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u16193	Here you go. You can't, you can't answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u16194	What? No, I don't have...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u16195	You have the answer, the answer to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u16196	On the line, that's right.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u16197	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u16198	Yeah. I'm talking about the credibility of the data I've been presenting. So it's registered cars by 30.6. in the Republic of Croatia. You can check the information in the MUP. Those cars that are registered until 30. The 6th was paid a fee, and from them the Ministry of Finance made a profit. It would be correct if, when the law was passed, the Ministry of Finance gave us the information about how much excise duty was paid for the first six months in the budget of the Republic of Croatia, and then you would see that I was absolutely right by my colleagues.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u16199	Mr. Mršić, you do not have the right to respond to the replica to address the representative who corrected your incorrect allegations. I thank you. Time's up. I interrupted you when you left the topic and addressed the representatives of the Judge-Thrakostane to which you have no right.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u16201	I'm more comfortable... looking at this side than this one.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u16202	It's okay until it's blinking.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u16203	That's right, and the end from which I come and some other MPs come. Don't if you do.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u16204	Here's another 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u16205	Well, I can't talk like that when you keep interrupting me, so my words aren't so mean. From the area where I come from and some other MPs come from, the average salary is some, most of my fellow citizens are inaccessible and the increase in excise duty will also make these cars unreachable for the average salary.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u16206	Thank you. I... breach of the Rules of Procedure I warned, so please. Thank you. So next in line is Representative Franjo Arabovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u16207	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. I think we've said a lot today during this debate on harmfulness I'd say tobacco industry, tobacco or cigarettes as we please. I come from one neighborhood I was born where tobacco was one of the incomes of one of the ways of making money, and I think it's very difficult so I feel invited to say a few things about tobacco harmfulness for our young people especially, and otherwise what this Law might change for sure. So now I'm gonna smoke relationships more lives than alcohol, cocaine, heroin, suicide, AIDS, and car accidents together. So it's just one way to try to cut these things I'm counting now. We'll just say that in Zagreb, hypothetically speaking, so many cigarettes are smoked in one day that the tar that smokes can be made with it is 400 square meters of asphalt. I have examples just,...the doctors better explain it. My only opinion is that we need this proposal for a law supplementing the law on special taxes on tobacco products. I'm thinking it's just one of the preventions. I'd add more stuff to that as a general ban on advertising all tobacco products. Regulations that protect children and young people from the abuse of tobacco industry, stricter laws prohibiting smoking in public places, aggressive and systematic use of the media to teach youth about the risks of smoking. A significantly higher tax on cigarettes and tobacco products. Regulations requiring the tobacco industry to pay health costs related to the use of its products. This bill of law is a direct measure that will drag away the potential consumption of cigarettes to give up their intention and direct intent that will draw away many consummations to stop smoking. The increased taxes on tobacco products will discourage the consumption of cigarettes and tobacco over a long period and thus... positively affect the state budget. The justification for increasing excise duties on the consumption of these products must be seen as a way for the state to raise funds to cover public costs related to tobacco and cigarettes consumption. The justification for the increase in excise duties can also be applied to alcoholic beverages. As far as cigarette smuggling is concerned, we all know that there is a big problem in the Republic of Croatia. Despite all efforts made by the Croatian police and the Ministry of Finance inspectors, the amount of illegal cigarettes in the market has been slightly reduced in the past year, and in well-studed smuggling routes where cigarettes are not stopped in Croatia. Cigarettes produced in Croatia as things are now legally coming out of the country so that they can go back and end up in Croatian markets, in front of cafes in cafes and I don't know where they're not. Only the minimum amount has been discovered at the borders over which smuggled goods enter Croatia. This concludes that our border is very soft, or permeable, and that is probably on land and at sea. I appeal to Mr. Shuker to make additional efforts to prevent cigarette smuggling with the ministers of neighbouring countries, which is very likely to increase slightly by passing this law. In any case, Croatian society needs to be forced into the idea that cigarettes are a luxury and as such we need to further tax them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u16208	I thank the honourable representative of Arabovic. It is up to the honourable representative Kapraljevic, not present, loses the right to debate. Dear Representative Perica Bukic please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u16209	Mr. Vice President, honourable members of the government, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs. Let me begin by pointing out that my earlier thoughts I believe that this part of you has always been focused on a bit of irrational desire to do everything in order for future tax and all kinds of other burdens of citizens to be if not less, then at least the same and not unpopular promises. However, in this case of a special tax on tobacco products, I would like to say that this proposal is of maximum support and I hold that its justification is, with unnecessary explanation of all other social economic levels that the budget must cover, and here of course, it is about the budget and its filling, so that this proposal can be illuminated in my court for a short time by two other points and related. On the one hand, it is a world of sport, top-notch and each other, but also what I would like to do in the future not as a technical saying but as part of the designed system and could be most criminally placed in the exercise and body culture in general, a world whose paradigm is healthy life and the fight against all forms of addiction is a world from which, fortunately, more and more big names are increasingly involved in campaigns against addiction, where enjoying tobacco products is an extremely high place. Ladies and gentlemen, the proposal on the agenda should present around 440 million kunas of revenue per year in the coming period and, for example, Croatia's sport is currently being allocated around 50 million kuna per year from the budget. So, with all due caution in order to say that the problem is much more complex, that we athletes have the characteristics of things to be extremely simplified, I will still underline, by adopting this proposal into the state budget, it will come together in the following year, so the new funds that are not available, the amount that is 10 times larger at the beginning, than it is for the whole sport at all. I can't and I don't want... that such mathematics when it comes to funding sports in the broadest sense won't change. They will, no doubt. Whether one of the government's commitment will just develop sports building facilities and all the conditions for sports as well as improving sports culture and healthy life at all. But let me briefly state one other point of resistance to support this proposal, which is actually an integral part. It is about supporting new imposes on tobacco products precisely because of the development of sport as a negation, in this case prevention of addiction, or to say it to the comprehensible sports dictionaries, the funds from this new nemeta on cigarettes invested in sport, will return almost, and directly back to the budget by reducing the millions of costs that health care, so this country is about treating the sick precisely because of the other and the consumption of tobacco. You will agree with me to prevent investment in sports life instead of cigarettes is among the most effective means to reduce future sufferers, future... costs for their treatment. and every future new kuna in the budget stemmed from the tobacco smoke invested in sports culture is repeatedly justified. To conclude, if in this country, especially those young people of this moment and in the near future will stop eating tobacco products and stop killing themselves with cigarettes on the obvious of themselves, their parents and all of us, and if this is why they will not enter the budget from that title, and Croatian sport will not get a single kuna from that tobacco smoke, we will be the happiest country in the world and we will not miss the money. Unfortunately, I doubt that's the case. And that is why I support this proposal, especially its application. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u16210	I thank the esteemed representative Bukic. It's time for the Honorable Representative of the Judge-Thrakostane.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u16211	Mr. Vice President, thank you, we've heard a lot today and I want very briefly with my contribution, here's a little bit, perhaps, on the other hand, to see the proposal of this law, because of course every law can be observed from the angles you want and in the way you want it to be. But I would say, and here, we must take into account the overall state of our economy and the national economy as a system which is then part and tax system, and imports, exports and everything else, and regardless of what was said by the minister, I will quote that it is impossible to avoid the annual report of the National Bank for 2003, where it is clear that certain indications have emerged that consumer expansion has been recorded in the last half of 2003 in the second half of the year beginning to lose momentum, although the car sales segment has kept the current growth dynamics, which ultimately contributed to the growth of the trade deficit, so explicitly writes. And it also says that part of the trade deficit of $8 billion, that the strong increase in goods imports was the most contributed to the import of road vehicles, so all of this I read and quoted the National Bank of Croatia's 2003 report, so the situation is as it says. On this basis came this proposal, which, when the percentages that I have already made and the arguments and figures in the corrections of incorrect allegations are observed, I will repeat them. The current situation is such that, for example, up to 50 thousand kuna car value is a special tax 9%, the new special tax proposal will account for 11%, so 2 percentage points higher. In the price of selling cars up to 100,000 kuna, it has been 11% so far, so the special tax will now be 13%. In the amount of up to 150 thousand kuna he was up to now 22 thousand and 500 kuna, now I'm going to move to absolute amounts, now there will be 27 thousand kuna, which is an increase from 13 to 15% and so on for each category and for each table, so what I've shown as an example is that it's not such a large percentage, nor such a terrible blow to our citizens. And the data that I have presented again, and it is the official data of the Ministry of Finance and Customs Administration, is that between 1 January of this year and 30 June of this year, 58 thousand 485 cars imported into Croatia worth 3 billion and 700 million kuna were imported into Croatia. So maybe we could look at the whole problem in other ways with the importance of the national economy that we used this money hypothetically by setting up that one job costs 200 thousand kuna, so 18 and a half thousand jobs could be opened and it's not popular, it's not populist, but maybe it's socially responsible that we all try to think together whether it's necessary to change our habits that every job doesn't need to start by buying a expensive car, but should start by turning into a car, so when it comes to buying that expensive car. and, of course, that citizens who spend a great deal of money on excise duties and all other taxes have the right to object to any increase in prices, including in the form of excise duty or any other tax. But we must be aware that what the colleague said about cigarettes in other countries, including us, that fortunately cars are less unfortunately elastic in Croatia than in other countries, that this is the same case in cigarettes. Therefore, there are different opinions in the public too, so there is one colleague who specifically told me that, in the context of the debate of these laws, I could suggest, because we are not talking about alcohol here, that some of the money that is going on on TV is going on, specifically for beer and the rest is being used to suppress vices of all kinds, and also to stop smoking or solve health problems for those who have acquired them by eating a specific cigarette or alcohol. So, in any case, I support the proposal of this law, and I hope that, apart from filling the budget, the budget will be spent for the purposes of all those social layers and for everything that people expect from us, that, in this context, it will be systematically done by lowering other types of taxes, by fulfilling that promise from our guarantee card, that a total order is introduced into state finances, and then by doing so, the standard is automatically solved in one other way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u16212	Thank you. Dear Zgrebec's distinguished representative is coming. Here you go. Replica, distinguished representative Ingrid Antičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u16213	Mr. Vice President, an esteemed colleague said, in fact, she told the citizens that it was a lot to spend on buying cars in the past few years, so she said that especially when a job is opened, it is not necessary to buy a car immediately, etc. It is a wonderful message for citizens, where citizens are told, so the average citizens that the car has a luxury, because they don't have children to transfer to English, they don't have children to switch to ballet, they don't need it, it's a luxury for them. Now we're glad you think of the average citizen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u16214	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u16215	Perhaps my colleague Antičević did not listen well to something else when I read and quoted page 1 and page 15 of the annual report for the year 2003 of the Croatian National Bank issued in Zagreb in 2004, so let him read it. So, I didn't order anything else, I was just quoting what the Croatian National Bank told the urbi et orbi of this publication in hand. That's one thing. And what I think about the pathetic woman who tried to sell here and the serious citizens don't drink it because they said in their November 23rd voices what they thought about that kind of thinking, so we leave it to them to judge what the lady's words will not produce in their heads. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u16216	Thank you. Dear Zgrebec's distinguished representative is coming. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u16217	Mr. Vice President, representatives of the Ministry of Finance, colleagues and colleagues! The Croatian National Bank gave us an overview of the borrowing statistics and colleague Sučec-Tracostanec told us that an average citizen in Croatia must behave and change his habits and that he must change his consciousness. Maybe that's a good thing, but let's let the citizens decide. When we talk about taxes, then it is generally known that high taxes actually encourage tax evasion and stimulate the black market. If that were the case, we could have made sure a little more than maybe two years ago when we here discussing the excise duty on alcohol voted the amendment that significantly raised the excise duty to alcohol far more than the Government suggested then. What was the result? As a result, the specific tax on alcohol was, or revenues from a specific tax on alcohol in the budget, less than they had been collected until then, that the producers of alcoholics had a significant boost in production and sales but that does not mean that there was less alcohol in Croatia. So we should also learn from the mistakes and then we actually made a mistake by the MPs who voted such an amendment so that later perhaps a year later, when we saw what the consequences of all this were, on two occasions, we reduced the amount of a special tax on alcohol. I'm afraid we don't make that mistake again. So, the rationale of both laws is actually budgetary effects, budget effects are expected. Unfortunately, this is an ad hoc measure or how we like to say it is a fire measure that neither sees the short-term nor long-term consequences. Therefore, if budget revenues are expected to increase and foreign borrowing is often pushed through the debate here. However, when there is no domestic production and we do not have domestic car production, then the consequence of the reduction in imports or the reduction in ino-debt is actually the fact that there will be no renewal of the rolling stock, especially in those categories of citizens who do not have the opportunity to buy or pay in cash the car. When we say that it is or we read that the age of the car in Croatia is over ten years then there is indeed an objective need for an annual quantity to be changed, replaced, etc. However, when we talk about this increase in car costs, then it should be said that these may not be such large amounts, the financial amount is when a person decides to buy a car, but when it comes here, the data is that this first category will be up to 50,000 or 50 thousand cars will increase it by a thousand and 500 kuna. It is 30% but it should be taken into account the fact that excise duty is taken into account as a basis for the calculation of VAT. So, the basis for VAT calculation will increase, and then that base will be at this first category of 6 thousand 500, with another 15 thousand 500, and then 27 thousand, and then 41, and 57 500, etc. But in relative relations, the biggest increase will be in the first two categories of 30 and 24%, respectively, to be on this category when you buy a car worth 350 thousand kuna 12%. So, we should take care of what the consequences will be and whether we are ever going to achieve this budgetary effect that we say in the short term in this year that we want to achieve it. But then there is another possibility that citizens will buy to a greater extent used cars because new cars will be too expensive for them in this way. However, I would like to warn of two more moments in this law that have not been discussed so far. In addition, the abovementioned paragraph 3 is amended as regards the payment of a special tax on cabin-free vessels and cabin vessels. The first ones remain at the height of 6 thousand kuna, such a tax of another type with a cabin and a half-cab of 15 thousand kuna, however, the tax will be paid by all those who purchase such vessels. To date, it is therefore deleted that extension in that paragraph that the specific tax is not paid on those vessels serving for economic fisheries. What does that mean? This means that we will also charge these special taxes for those vessels. However, when it comes to the purchase of yachts, the boat is then said that those who have registered activity are not at all saying what activity it should be that specific tax will not be paid. What does that mean? This means that those who charge small entrepreneurs, craftsmen, fishermen that tax and those who buy large ships, yachts we say and do not know, it is difficult to determine by this definition in which activities they will use those vessels, they will be exempt from paying that tax. I have already said that both the bill and the other drafts explain the needs of the budget, so they want to gain greater fiscal income. Here some colleagues and colleagues tried to convince us that in the Law on Special Tax on Tobacco Products, he actually has another purpose or it turns out that he should primarily have the purpose of protecting health. Thus, the government did not go with that intention when it proposed an increase in the specific tax on tobacco products because it is evident from its reasoning. She says that on the one hand changes in excise duties would affect stopping the growth of the quantities of cigarettes delivered and imported abroad. On the other hand, these changes would have a positive fiscal effect. Therefore, it is incorrect that the government intends to protect health in a way that reduces sales through the increase in excise duty. In fact, the government wants to increase sales to increase fiscal income. This suggests that A-group cigarettes will have a cost increase of 10%, a second category by 18.52 and a third category by 22.47%. So, and it's going to be a little bit more of a bit more of an addition of these products because they're going to enter the base for VAT calculation, so these percentages are going to be a little bit higher than they're shown here. However, we have not been given any reason why there is no increase in excise duties in other tobacco products, such as tobacco, cigarettes, cigarillos, they remain at the same level. So either the government estimated that it was such a small traffic that it would not bring any effects but whatever the law is called about a special tax on tobacco products then there is no reason that all tobacco products, therefore, both cigarettes and other tobacco products do not have an adequate increase in excise duties. From all this that has been said so far and what is in the name of clubs and what we have said in an individual debate, there is a certain concern of all of us who talk about it that these effects will be short-term, they may bring in some increased revenue at present, but when people actually begin to calculate what it means for their domestic wakes, then there will be legal sales, therefore, sales through which tax is calculated, and they will likely increase the illegal way of trade, and therefore the budget will certainly not get revenues. I was trying to get to the red light. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u16218	Thank you. It is up to the imported representative Ivan Bagarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u16219	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Longer or shorter version? I support the adoption of this Act which will provide more resources in the budget and more resources for smoking control programmes in the extreme case. I also support this Act, I mean the Tax on Tobacco Taxes and as an instrument that will especially prevent young people from eating tobacco and I support it and as... tax and customs services to control and monitor the traffic of tobacco products and to prevent illegal sales of tobacco products. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Finally, I would say, according to the Croatian Institute of Public Health campaign and the Ministry of Health, let's stop smoking and win this state budget won't lose anything because the cost of treatment is caused by diseases as a consequence of smoking far greater than any profits related to the sale of tobacco products. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u16220	Thank you. It's our guest, Anton Perusko.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u16221	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, gentlemen of the Government, colleagues and colleagues. Yes, I agree with Mrs. Judge-Thrakostane that they are citizens of 23. 11. had one position on one programme but unfortunately very quickly much earlier than the biggest pessimists and perhaps optimistic as taken, expected, more concretely already 6 months after the new government was established, all the cracks of the programme called "start Croatia". Citizens seem to really believe that HDZ has a programme that will launch Croatia, which will enable our country's citizens to develop and ultimately improve the standard. Today, it is clear that all the faltering of this program is being revealed. It gives up the development programmes, for example the modernisation of railways, is going to a projected growth rate of slightly over 3%, compared to the growth rate that during the government of Ivica Racana stood at over 5%. On the night before the elections, the election silence promises a reduction in VAT rates from 22% to 20%. And what exactly is going on? No development projects, no definitely. No economic growth, no, forget the citizens, no VAT rates, we have to say it clearly and loudly, but there is therefore an increase in taxes on imports of new and used vehicles and vessels. Yes, great wisdom in keeping economic policy, raise taxes, should we really have a program that will be based on an increase... on entering their pocket. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Someone will say, it's a vehicle tax and a vessel that can be considered a luxury. No, it's not about luxury. It's about our own citizens' needs. It is particularly unfounded to increase as many of my colleagues have said, taxes and excise duties on cars with a value ranging from 50 to 100 thousand kuna. It's about the largest number of cars that fall into the lower class and that our citizens mostly import. Yeah, they don't need to raise taxes, and that's what we in the SDP stand for. To raise taxes on cars worth more than 150 thousand, let those who are richer and drive luxury wages but the average Croatian citizen on importing cars into lower-class cars that are in the country not to mention, do not produce, do not really need to raise taxes. Imagine the explanation of the proposing that this slowdown of imports would contribute to the reduction of the trade deficit and the reduction of external debt. Yes, citizens of Croatia, Racan's government has made it possible for you to get a new fleet, not a luxury park, but average cars. This has made a full contribution to increasing safety on our roads that collect blood taxes anyway, which would be that citizens could not restore their fleet, but that they were, but that they were like, because cars are a dry need and not a luxury. What kind of message does this government send? Tax increase. Buy used vehicles, buy insecure vehicles. And then the SDP and the collegiate partners shift external debt and its growth, yes, but our citizens need to know that over 4m euros, and almost 5m euros in debt to banks, and actually citizens, and citizens, as we agreed and from the opposition, are among the most valuable and paying and repaying their loans. The government of Eve Sanader is now raising their taxes and forcing them to do something they don't want. Finally, I am aware that no matter what I said in this debate or what my colleagues said, regardless of the arguments they heard, it will be the way HDZ wants and he wants to grab the citizens' pocket. Where this is the case, I propose that Article 4 amending Article 3 of the existing Act in paragraph 6 define the activity as a maritime activity for which I have referred and the corresponding amendment. It would not be right to abuse the concept of registered activity in a way that an individual who can be a tycoon and who, if I did not get it wrong, can have a registered roofing activity and can import under that activity, import this vessel, and then abuse I know, from practice, how it is now implemented. On the other hand, why am I asking a question? a construction company or someone, a legal entity of some wealthy owner, could allow the representative to import a vessel and register it for sport and entertainment but to pay a tax of course. Yes, that would be fair, it would be fair to the average citizen, it would be fair to those who perform registered maritime activities at sea and not to protect the tycoons in such a way that they can abuse one intention of legislation, I don't know whether knowingly or not. Let me also point out that today in Croatia this, that a legal entity registers a sport and entertainment vessel is not simply possible because there are two registers of boats, according to the 1994 regulations of the registration of boats, the register of sports boats and entertainment of so-called. personal needs and other registers of ships for economic purposes. All vessels of legal persons were registered in the register for economic purposes regardless of activity, and in some ways almost by force of the law, tax payments were avoided. Let us do so in this Law by adopting my amendment and that in, close to procedures on the Maritime Code and sublegal acts that will be adopted on the basis of it, I will personally make sure that changes to the rules on ships are made, and the very fact that there have been discussions on this subject on the Committee on Economy I think it speaks of the justification of the amendments that I have submitted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u16222	Thank you for the discussion. The next is Željko, the distinguished representative Željko Pavlic, who is not in the assembly, is losing his right to debate. Next distinguished representative Nikola Vuljanić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u16223	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, we have heard a lot of philanthropic debates here from a sporting aspect, from a medical point of view, and we have heard or read the reasoning of the promoter. Well, now the government should decide what the purpose of this law is. If the purpose of adopting this law is to dissuade citizens from smoking, dispensing citizens from driving to work and not accidentally getting killed on the road. So if the purpose is philanthropic then there won't be any money in the budget. On the other hand, if the government intends to raise money from tobacco and cars, then it is in her best interest for citizens to smoke more, buy cigarettes and buy cars. It's obvious that the budget is half-empty, there's a hole in it, it's obvious that there are huge promises with all those cards and besides. These promises are not fulfilled, but in order for any of them to be fulfilled, money must be collected. The money is in citizens' pockets. Those who made the most of the car sales in Croatia, and these are not Croatian-owned banks. Their profits go somewhere else. If that hadn't happened when it happened, maybe the budget situation would have looked different. The social aspect of this Law’s proposal is that it will be taken to those who are engaged in such harmful activities as smoking, that they will be taken to those who have to buy a car. Well, of course they'll be taken. They'll be taken to those who have money, they can't be taken to those who don't. It is absolutely certain that this tax will not be taken for at least most by the recipients of social assistance. What will happen to the rolling stock on Croatian roads we have already heard. I think it is unnecessary to repeat this, but what is important for the intensities of the promoter, so to collect these pairs, is that if what the promoter says is realized, citizens will drive less. In the short term, gas money will be collected, from cars and tobacco in the short term, however, budget revenues will clearly fall. I guess this government doesn't even think long-term. The question is how long he puts himself in front of him. What a man would do if he could properly analyse the situation and ask himself how responsible we are when we stick our hand in the pocket of taxpayers of Croatian citizens, should be asked where the money will be spent. If money collected from taxes, additional tobacco taxes, tobacco products would be spent on health care, for everything Minister Hebrang says that citizens will have to pay out of their own pocket again in the future, when the money collected from the increased extra taxes on cars would be spent on increased road safety then the peaceful souls could vote for these two laws. This way I'll definitely be against them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u16224	Thank you. It is up to the honourable representative Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u16225	Tax policy is both part of the electoral programmes and part of the political programmes and no one contests the right of the ruling party to send and need its tax policy... And the messages were sent. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] The necessary money for the state budget is to be paid by citizens. They will be paid by citizens because they buy cars because they smoke or consume tobacco products. And it's a message, it's a message that it's simply a new imposition, a new tax. It is up to us from the opposition to say very clearly: Gentlemen, this is what the ruling party did not say. In fact, she said she would cut taxes and in particular ensure better living standards for citizens, and we know that in Croatia citizens buy cars and what is important, the majority, the majority of the population consume tobacco products. Therefore, a clear study because we need money for citizens to pay. And that means I'd say the opposite of that guaranteed card, which is that the standard of living of citizens will be lower because of these two legal proposals. There's something else that's important. Is it important and does that money go into development? Because development is important for the stability of economic change in Croatia, development is important for the stability of macroeconomic elements but development is important for jobs as well. The answer's not working. The ruling party has largely disputed the coalition government's introduction of excise duties to build highways that are even directly and given to road construction companies. Dispute. So the excise duty that was intended directly to build roads and we are all proud to have a road from Zagreb to Rijeka, that we will have a road from Zagreb to Split, but the ruling party was against these excise duties. And a fresh wound for many of us whose development is something that we think is important for the Republic of Croatia, it does not need excise duty to build Croatian railways. They do not need excise duties, but it is not only a message for Croatian railways, it is a message for the metal industry in the Republic of Croatia, but also for “Rade Končar” and some others who depended heavily on the Croatian Railways programme. Therefore, the question of what these tax increases are for. Why we're gonna spend it. And it's a problem of spending in the budget, it's a problem of lack of money for expenditure in the budget. Therefore, the message that it is also spending in the Republic of Croatia. But today we heard some weird messages that we're sending to the Croatians. What are these strange messages? So strange messages that those who are rich have the right to act as European citizens that, lawyers have the right to change tariffs that is something they have the right to comply with Europe, and that is why they should not be burdened. The government won't do anything. But Croatian citizens buy cars, small cars buy cars on loan so it is not acceptable, is in Europe that in Croatia no. That's not good. Why? You're guilty because the external debt is big, unfortunately we have to take credit for buying your cars, and it's not good to buy new cars. These are messages for Croatian citizens, for poor builders, so we are clearly different in politics. Yes, the HDZ or the ruling party that supports those who are rich have the right to behave if Europeans, should live as Europeans those who are poor should be given up further. Those aren't good messages in the Parliament. And part of us doesn't agree with that kind of message. Citizens need to be provided with minimum living standards, especially if we are saying that we will follow Europe then they are right, and Europe's cars are bought with credit, in Europe it is allowed for citizens to have a car. It makes it possible. That's what we want to punish with a bigger tax because we also lack money in the budget. It is evident that what might have to be considered is that it is with manufacturers for the needs of the automotive industry, which should surely be linked to suppliers from Europe cars and for the reason that it is and if the great consumption of cars and car purchases in Croatia. And it is certain that every government should try to find a model that as strong a market as Croatia so strongly for our concepts very possibly for their not, is the reason that the government should fight for auto parts manufacturers and in some way enable them to participate in the competitions for producing these parts for large car companies. And this is how we send a message, no, high taxes, cars are not needed in Croatia, we will not be happy if citizens are driving and that is the answer to our automotive industry or spare and auto parts industry. We won't worry about you. And again the problem for the Croatian economy. It is evident that this debate today will also be a negative message for all Croatian firms to export parts to the auto industry in Europe. Negative message. Because high taxes reduce the ability to import new cars. The third message remains, which is that the citizens will buy and will have to buy cars. It will remain visiblely theirs I would say basic problems how to secure enough funds and then resort to the purchase of used cars cheaper cars, and it will certainly be cars from Europe. Then we return to the question of nature protection, we return to the question of the quality of this wax park, the safety of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. But it is certainly also a great damage that we will have in Croatian space for the reason that we will use the engines of those earlier generations of pimps that pollute the environment. All of these are negative I would say the effects of these decisions, and surely the only justification is the lack of funds in the budget. And that in the dilemma, whether you find the possibility of saving or burdening citizens with new taxes, I think it's still a better alternative to saving.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u16226	Thank you. On behalf of the Proposer, Minister Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u16227	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. I've been a representative in this House for four years. I've known very often, and I've criticized, but I've never insulted any of the proponents that they don't know, or anything. Today, in the absence of arguments, everything and everything is heard here. But what I didn't want to say in my opening part, because I think it's time to turn around tomorrow, not to talk about the past, I guess, gentlemen, whenever you want, I'll answer you. The excise duties are for covering your failures, and exceeding the costs they've made in their own campaign. Loud and clear. This country's deficit is 6.3 you reported to the public that it is 4.2 – 4.5. You took loans past the budget, and then later you recorded it, and you did all kinds of things. As far as car spare car manufacturers are concerned, a clear call from the government session to all car manufacturers that make more significant production of spare parts or installations in Croatia will be made by the Croatian Government to them to make it easier to keep the costs quieter. Very clear and loud, therefore, there is no larger philosophy there, it was clearly stated at a session of the Croatian Government. The second thing, is to talk about the fact that last year's external debt has grown by $8 and a half billion. No structural problem has been solved by this country's problem. If a two-year-old country is in charge of its economy, the banks are in charge of 13 billion and they don't solve any problems or external trade balance problems, you don't have significant economic growth, you don't solve the unemployment problem, and then you claim it's okay. And at the same time, you bring in the government behind you, so you can't practically be in charge anymore. It's okay. And you keep talking about some kind of economic policy, where the results of t economic policy are. And don't say that someone was against excise duty, for the freeway. It wasn't anybody. But we were opposed to going beyond the control of this Parliament and that what was happening was happening. THAT YOU spend more than you should. We were against you giving a guarantee to Victor Lenac and spending 500 or 600 million expensive money. We were against it. Loud and clear. Maybe if you hadn't spent that 500, 600 million, maybe if we didn't have to pay 100 million guarantees in the first term, maybe we wouldn't have been this kind of trouble. Don't talk about railways now, if you hadn't spent a billion and 600 million kunas, if you had recorded them neatly through the budget, as Croatian laws say, this government probably wouldn't have problems like this. If you had recorded the renovation neatly through the budget, this government probably wouldn't have had problems like this. How can it happen that the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute spends a billion and 600 million, and that no account has been recorded at any cost and that is why the government of Ivo Sanader is guilty. The State Audit report for the Ministry of Reconstruction and Development is guilty of referenda, not ministers. I remember when I was sitting there the first semester of 2000 when they were pummeling charges at the expense of HDZ ministers, then they were criminals and thieves, then they were being heard, then they were brought in and that was okay. Today it's not like that. It's different. Today we say that positive macroeconomic indicators for the first five months are the result of Ivica Racan's economic policy. Former Vice President Linic turns to me and says, "I want you to have a hundred thousand people on the street because you don't pay for your work." It's been three months since, those 100,000 people haven't come. But you did not, Mr. Linic, pay 840 million workers who built Croatian highways. You did not transfer 230 million bonds issued by the Croatian State to be transferred to 20.11. That's all the data that's there, that's the kind of data that's been included neatly in the deficit of the year that you've been vice president. Today you're teaching us not to laugh anyway. It's your right. Your political right and none of it slows you down, but you can't accuse us of your failures. Victor Lenac is not a failure by Eve Sanader or Branko Vukelic or Ivan Schuker. They didn't talk about the manager of the year and they worked next to the shipyard to convince today that this Victor Lenac is like that and now he wants to sell himself to someone for a few thousand dollars. But I repeat, if that Victor Lenac hadn't come to collect, there'd probably be money for something else. So the problems are here. You know as well as I do that the problems of public finances in the Republic of Croatia and you know very well that at some point you and we will have to sit down and say this is the problem and we have to solve this problem and that we will have to reach a political consensus if we want this country to enter the European Union in 2007 or 2008. Why? Because it was done by all the countries that made a more significant economic step and entered the European Union. They took that step and we'll have to make it in Croatia, but we'll have to look each other in the face and tell them where someone's wrong. To boast that Minister Shucker and Prime Minister Sanader will be crushed in the face because we have discovered secret means of financing is a matter that should not be commented. I'm not interested in secret means of financing. I'm interested in what this Parliament brings, let it be paid, if we can hold out, if we can't, then it's fair to say gentlemen we can't do it, we have to change things. We honestly said to raise excise duties without bending, primarily for fiscal reasons. Excise duties on oil derivatives. So who will be raised at the moment when the price of oil for which no one, nor you, nor I, could know at the time when the budget was being made that the price of oil derivatives would go up, who at the moment when the oil had reached the record in the last 20 years would go to raise excise duties on oil derivatives. Excise duties on oil derivatives far more affect living standards than buying a personal car. But there's something else. Let's see what the most profitable branches of the economy in Croatia are in the last few years, tobacco and merchants and repairers and representatives of the automotive industry. They have space and probably those who are financially stronger and more powerful part of the excise duty will be on themselves. However, take care of whether the excise tax goes as much or as much as possible, or even worse, a pack of cigarettes will cost 15 or 14 kuna, while at the same time not to worry about where billions are spent and 600 pension money is very strange. What I would like to say in the end is that this government has stressed that the only reason for these price increases is the fiscal result, clearly and loudly. Also clear and loudly you will see in the budget rebalancing we put all costs of Croatian railways in the budget without hidden short-term loans on the side for a simple reason. I don't even mind that you did it that way, but that the moment the authorities took over that we were warned that it would come to our charge and there wouldn't be any problem at all. So that's the problem, which is that the moment I took over the Ministry of Finance by the papers that I got, I'm sorry that there's no other friend of mine here, Church, it wasn't indicated that these were short-term loans coming here and you didn't do it. It's very interesting that in a conversation where you were representatives of the former government and these governments yourself admitted to the former Prime Minister, Mr. Racan, that you didn't know of certain things, that after two months you claim to be so. But without clear and transparent finances, without the Treasury, you can't say that it's okay if the excise duties were transferred to the customs administration that she didn't train the service to carry them out and charge them properly. I'm knowing you personally, knowing... I can't possibly accept that you agree with that. That's what I'm telling you openly here in the assembly room. You can't shut down one service, transfer it to the other side, and not work on setting up that service. That's impossible, but unfortunately it happened with a service that monitors excise duties, and oil, alcohol, tobacco processing is the most attractive thing for smuggling. Why did it happen I don't know whose motives it was, I don't know. But I know that, here are two gentlemen, that they don't even have the opportunity to go out on the field and check for that excise charge. Why it hasn't been done in the past two years, I don't know maybe my ignorance is as the esteemed representative Stazic told me, which I insist on doing. Maybe that's my ignorance, probably is. But for some things you haven't done, you can't blame us. Also, for some of the things you've done wrong, you can't blame us. Just like we do for some of the things you've done well, we can't say you haven't done them, but this is how you stare at the problems you left us in public finances. I don't think it's right at least. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u16228	I thank Minister Shuker. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative Slavko Linić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u16229	I'm correcting Minister Shuker who says not all road expenses, health insurance, rail expenses, guarantees, etc. have not been recorded. It was all recorded, it's all in handover and handover to the government. All the details except for one which is not recorded, and that is what we have very clearly highlighted, and that is the question of the cost of rebuilding houses. This is what is not correctly recorded and not shown. All other costs and all other contracts, all other expenditures are correctly recorded and submitted to all decisions of the Government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u16230	Thank you. It is up to the honourable representative Vladimir Šišljagic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u16231	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, the government's representatives, MPs and MPs. So, I want to start by saying that I support, I fully support changes and additions to both laws. I wouldn't really want to be long and repeat what my predecessors have already said about and against. However, I would like to remind myself and return perhaps two or three years ago, more specifically in 2001 when the former government, I would also like to limit myself to tobacco, i.e. to these changes and supplementing the special tax on cars, are also increased excise duties published in the National Journal 55. So in 2001. Clearly, what has just been repeated by Minister Shucker, that the underlying reason is actually a lack of money in the budget, but it is also clear that this lack of money in the budget draws origin from the former government. Like, as the fact is also, and we've had these occasions here in the Assembly and we've discussed, that the deficit wasn't as it was shown, but the deficit was eventually set at 6.3%. And the fact is this government intends to keep the deficit at 4 and a half percent by the end of the year. It is clear, therefore, that these amendments and additions both go in the direction that the budget allows for sufficient income, i.e. sufficient income not only for some such as can be heard here and the finding that the Government does not care about health or the accidents that occur. It's just not true. The government is very concerned about both public health in Croatia and traffic accidents. Here, it's just in preparation and here in the Assembly we'll also have a proposal for a road safety bill. So that claim just doesn't stand. Will the negation of not accepting and refusing these changes and supplementing be that it is an explanation that this will be a stimulation as the illegal sale of cigarettes is said? Well, if that's true, the illegal sale of cigarettes has been in both the previous years and the previous 15 years, if you will. And in the past four years. The government of Ivo Sanader was 6 months old, however, and there were earlier years of opportunities to end the illegal sale of cigarettes. Finally, for illegal transactions, for an illegal market, we have institutions in the state system that are obliged and compulsory illegal sales, i.e. to curb the illegal market. So, by supporting these amendments and additions to the law, the amendment and addition of the Law on Special Tax on Tobacco Products, I would ultimately like to remind just one more thing. Wasn't there a drag in the pocket of taxpayers and Croatian citizens of Victor Lenac? I'm not gonna pick it up, it was elaborated just now. So, it was notorious and obviously stalling not once drag, dragging into the pockets of taxpayers. Not these, not to mention the River Bank and a lot of other things. So, I think it's demagogy, I think it's the fact that the state budget needs to raise funds, even those funds that we've been counting on, and we've seen that we haven't been able to find in the Treasury, and that's why these amendments and the additions of the law go to both the one and the other draft laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u16232	Here, ladies and gentlemen, this is what we've come up with to correct the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u16233	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here, dear colleague Šišljagic said the government doesn't care about the public. I'm doing it now... Age, but I must react to this population. [[Speech is not enabled.]] According to Klaic, "the public" is a name for the crowd. So, an ugly name. Here in Parliament, and uneducated, so... for the crowd, for the crowd. [[Speech is not enabled.]] So you probably thought and I think that that's how you should express yourself by respecting the people, as well as the citizens of Croatia as they deserve and how they do. So, it's about citizens because finally, and by our behavior, we need to make sure that, finally, every citizen of ours, from that sublime mentality really becomes a citizen and a proud citizen, not a public.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u16234	Thank you. With this, we've exhausted the debate for today. Tomorrow we will continue with the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Land Books and the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Spatial Planning and Construction, at 9:30 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u16235	Final draft law amending and supplementing the Act on Special Taxes on Personal Cars, other motor vehicles, vessels and aircraft, emergency procedure, first and second reading of P.Z. No. 124. The debate on the text of the law is over. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Legislatives, the SDP Representatives' Club and MP Antun Peru. I'd like the Minister of Finance, Mr. Shucker, to be read on the amendments. First amendments to the Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u16236	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. The government accepts the amendment of the Legislative Committee, because it is purely nomotechnical.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u16237	Thank you very much. It becomes an integral part of the law. Second, the amendment of the SDP Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u16238	The government does not accept this amendment because it differs in concept from the government's proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u16239	Dear Representative Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u16240	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary. We appreciate the concept that we are not different and we only suggested if you are already going to increase the excise on cars do not go to the ones that almost every citizen buys. And we estimate that without this procedure, you can achieve the goals you have assessed. And that's why our proposal is to just stay on the old feet when it comes to small cars. How about we just go up the rates with the big cars and the rich who can pay for it? For the reason that this is not a large amount related to the budget procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u16241	You want a vote?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u16242	I want a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u16243	Thank you. Please, who's in favour of this amendment? He didn't get the necessary majority. and the third amendment of the honourable representative of Anton Peru.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u16244	The government does not accept, for the simple reason why Mr. MP proposes to add the word "registered" to "seas", that would mean that all those who have any activity on the rivers, lakes where they would buy boats of the same category would have to pay excise duties. However, since there is economic activity in Croatia on both rivers and lakes, we cannot accept this amendment by Mr. Peruska.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-07-0.u16245	Since there is no honourable representative, we must vote. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? I find that, with 74 votes for and 13 against the proposed law in the text, as proposed by the Proposer, together with the amendment adopted.
